Source URL: https://alohaebuys-uat.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Aloha eBUYS UAT Test - /view/login/login.xhtml skip to main content Sign In Login ID: Please enter the login id. Password: Please enter the password. Login Assistance Forgot User ID Forgot Password Sign in with SSO Sign In Part of the Periscope S2G line of platform products. Company Registration Create Your Supplier Account Tax ID: Tax ID is EIN EIN SSN Please enter a valid tax ID. SSN is not allowed for international vendors. Please select EIN Company Name: Please enter a valid company name. Email Address: Please enter a valid company email address. Select Country United States of America Australia Belize Canada Denmark Ecuador Western Sahara Finland Greece Haiti Iceland Jamaica Korea, Republic of Liberia Madagascar Nigeria Oman Pakistan Qatar Rwanda Singapore Thailand Vietnam Yemen Zambia Please select a country. Register Part of the Periscope S2G line of platform products. Try Beta! Based on your feedback, we have made some improvements. It still works like before but with a brand new look & experience. Try our latest look on the following sections of ePro: Main Menu Navigation Contracts You can use the toggle on the header of the site at any moment to switch the look. Do It Later Switch Now quick search input Select Category to Search Bid Solicitations Advanced Supplier Registration Sign In We are unable to grant you access to Marketplace Catalog Manager powered by Periscope S2G. We notice that you have an older version of Periscope S2G account associated with email address A newer version of Periscope S2G is required to manage your catalogs. Please contact this number for assistance 866-532-6867 We notice that you have an incomplete Periscope S2G account associated with your email address Log into Periscope S2G and complete your registration in order to access your Marketplace Catalog Manager. We are unable to process your request to access Marketplace Catalog Manager. Please contact this number for assistance 866-532-6867. We are unable to process your request to access Periscope S2G. Please contact this number for assistance 866-532-6867. Change Password To better serve you we have updated our system. Please take a moment to update your password. Current Password Please enter old password. New Password Please enter new password. Confirm Password Please enter confirm password. Submit Password Logout Aloha eBUYS - TEST Aloha eBUYS: Streamlining Procurement. Welcome to Aloha eBUYS, the official e-Procurement system for the State of Hawai'i. Aloha eBUYS will transform the way the State does business by streamlining State processes, resulting in improved efficiencies, compliance, and transparency. More Information Supplier Activities Public Bulletins Important Links Welcome to Aloha eBUYS UAT Test Aloha eBUYS Buyers Initiative Aloha eBUYS will increase efficiency of the procurement process through the automation and streamlining of manual paper based processes. Aloha eBUYS Vendors Initiative Revolutionizing procurement, by empowering vendors to engage with the State more effectively and transparently. Using a phased approach, we will prioritize Marketplace Shopping for easy purchasing and Source to Contract Implementation, enhancing efficiency and transparency in solicitations. Terminology Please note that the terms “Vendor,” “Supplier,” and “Seller” are used interchangeably throughout Aloha eBUYS. Links to Vendor Registration Guides Welcome Introduction Video Vendor Quick Steps Guide Vendor Registration Video Guide Vendor Registration Guide Supplier Activities Complete Registration Supplier ID: Please enter a valid supplier ID. Email Address: Please enter a valid email address. Submit Complete Registration Complete registration here to begin using Aloha eBUYS UAT Test. Vendors, please read this disclaimer prior to completing registration. Open Bids Browse open bid opportunities. Public Bulletins Upcoming Holidays The State Procurement Office will be closed to observe the following holidays: Election Day on 11/05/2024, Veterans' Day on 11/11/2024 and Thanksgiving Day on 11/28/2024. Vendor Compliance All Vendors must be in compliance with applicable State laws. Go to the Important Links section for more information or to register. Vendor Registration Support For questions or assistance in registering your business with Aloha eBUYS, please contact support at: Phone: 866-532-6867 Email: hawaii-vendor-support@periscopeholdings.com Important Links State Procurement Office (SPO) Website SPO Vendor Info Site Hawai'i Compliance Express (HCE) References (Statutes, Rules, etc.) Aloha eBUYS Price & Vendor List Info Site Hawai'i Awards & Notices Data System (HANDS) info HAWAII_HAWAII_AWS_UAT_BUYSPEED_2_bso

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
