Source URL: https://dbedt.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer English 廣東話 Chuukese ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 国语 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog ภาษาไทย Tiếng Việt Visayan x Do you need help in another language? We will get you a free interpreter. Call (808) 586-2355 to tell us which language you speak. 您需要其它語言嗎？如有需要,請致電 (808) 586-2355, 我們會提供免費翻譯服務 您需要其它语言吗？如有需要,请致电 (808)-586-2355, 我们会提供免费翻译服务 En mi niit alilis lon pwal eu kapas? Sipwe angei emon chon chiaku ngonuk ese kamo. Kokori (808) 586-2355 omw kopwe ureni kich meni kapas ka ani. Makemake `oe i kokua i pili kekahi `olelo o na `aina `e? Makemake la maua i ki`i `oe mea unuhi manuahi. E kelepona (808) 586-2355 `oe ia la kaua a e ha`ina `oe ia la maua mea `olelo o na `aina `e. Masapulyo kadi ti tulong iti sabali a pagsasao? Ikkandakayo iti libre nga paraipatarus. Awaganyo ti (808) 586-2355 tapno ibagayo kadakami no ania ti pagsasao nga ar-aramatenyo. 貴方は、他の言語に、助けを必要としていますか ? 私たちは、貴方のために、無料で 通訳を用意で きます。電話番号の、(808) 586-2355に、電話して、私たちに貴方の話されている言語を申し出てください。 다른언어로 도움이 필요하십니까? 저희가 무료로 통역을 제공합니다. (808) 586-2355로 전화해서 사용하는 언어를 알려주십시요 您需要其它語言嗎？如有需要,請致電 (808)-586-2355, 我們會提供免費翻譯服務 您需要其它语言吗？如有需要,请致电 (808) 586-2355, 我们会提供免费翻译服务 Kwoj aikuij ke jiban kin juon bar kajin? Kim naj lewaj juon am dri ukok eo ejjelok wonen. Kirtok (808) 586-2355 im kwalok non kim kajin ta eo kwo melele im kenono kake. E te mana’o mia se fesosoani i se isi gagana? Matou te fesosoani e ave atu fua se faaliliu upu mo oe. Vili mai i le numera lea (808) 586-2355 pea e mana’o mia se fesosoani mo se faaliliu upu. Necesita ayuda en otro idioma? Nosotros le ayudaremos a conseguir un intérprete gratuito. Llame al (808) 586-2355 y diganos que idioma habla. Kailangan ba ninyo ng tulong sa ibang lengguwahe? Ikukuha namin kayo ng libreng tagasalin. Tumawag sa (808) 586-2355 para sabihin kung anong lengguwahe ang nais ninyong gamitin. คุณต้องการความช่วยเหลือทางด้านภาษาหรือไม่ ทางเราจะจัดหาล่ามฟรีให้คุณ โทรที่เบอร์ (808) 586-2355 และบอกเราว่าคุณพูดภาษาอะไร Bạn có cần giúp đỡ bằng ngôn ngữ khác không ? Chúng tôi se yêu cầu một người thông dịch viên miễn phí cho bạn. Gọi (808) 586-2355 nói cho chúng tôi biết bạn dùng ngôn ngữ nào. Gakinahanglan ka ba ug tabang sa imong pinulongan? Amo kang mahatagan ug libre nga maghuhubad. Tawag sa (808) 586-2355 aron magpahibalo kung unsa ang imong sinulti-han. Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism Ka ʻOihana Hoʻomohala Pāʻoihana, ʻImi Waiwai a Hoʻomākaʻikaʻi Search this site Search RSS icon Facebook icon Instagram icon Home About Us Overview About DBEDT About the Director About the Deputy Director DBEDT Administrative Rules Images of Hawaii News Releases Annual & Legislative Reports Latest Additions State Careers Quarterly Statistical and Economic Report County Social, Business and Economic Trends Hawaii 2050 Sustainability Plan State of Hawaii Data Book Maui Wildfire Support Resources Maui Economic Recovery Hawaii Interim Housing Program Maui Data Updates Aloha from DBEDT! The Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism is Hawaii’s resource center for economic and statistical data, business development opportunities, energy and conservation information, and foreign trade advantages. What’s New “Rescue: HI-Surf” Episode Directed by Native Hawaiian Filmmaker Erin Lau to Air November 4 on FOX The pulse-pounding new drama "Rescue: HI-Surf," a co-production of John Wells Productions, Warner Bros. Television and FOX Entertainment, continues to further opportunities for Hawaii's creative talent. “Rescue: HI-Surf” Episode Directed by Native Hawaiian Filmmaker Erin Lau to Air November 4 on FOX September 2024 Visitor Arrivals Recovered 96.1 Percent Compared to Pre-Pandemic September 2019 September 2024 total visitor arrivals represent an 96.1 percent recovery compared to pre-pandemic September 2019, the best recover rate since the Maui wildfires, September 2024 Visitor Arrivals Recovered 96.1 Percent Compared to Pre-Pandemic September 2019 Small Business Regulatory Review Board elects 2024-2025 Officers The Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT) Small Business Regulatory Review Board (SBRRB) has announced its officers for fiscal year 2024 to 2025. Small Business Regulatory Review Board elects 2024-2025 Officers Hawai’i Awarded $525,000 to Support Small Business Export Expansion The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has awarded the Hawaiʻi Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT) $525,000 to continue the Hawaiʻi State Trade Expansion Program (HiSTEP). This funding will provide small businesses with the vital tools and resources needed to succeed in export-related activities, ensuring Hawaiʻi companies can effectively compete in the global marketplace. Hawai’i Awarded $525,000 to Support Small Business Export Expansion DBEDT Encourages Hawai’i Small Businesses to Complete Annual Fed Credit Survey The survey is open to businesses currently in operation, those recently closed and those about to launch. The survey takes 10-12 minutes to complete and is open to for-profit businesses with fewer than 500 employees. The survey closes on Friday, November 1, at 3:00 p.m. Hawaiʻi time. DBEDT Encourages Hawai’i Small Businesses to Complete Annual Fed Credit Survey Hawai’i September Unemployment Rate Remains at 2.9 percent DBEDT today announced that the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for September was 2.9 percent, the same for the fourth consecutive month. Hawai’i September Unemployment Rate Remains at 2.9 percent HHFDC Recognized by the National Council of State Housing Agencies (NCSHA) for Quickly Standing Up a Housing Referral Program for Displaced Maui Residents Hawaii Housing Finance & Development Corp. — HHFDC has received recognition from national housing experts for standing up the Hawaii Fire Relief Housing Program just days after last year’s wildfires that destroyed much of Lahaina and other parts of Maui. HHFDC Recognized by the National Council of State Housing Agencies (NCSHA) for Quickly Standing Up a Housing Referral Program for Displaced Maui Residents Digital Equity Innovation Awards Honors Those Helping to Close the Digital Divide in Hawaii Hawaii Broadband and Digital Equity Office — In recognizing the work of individuals and organizations who help provide internet access and close the digital divide across the state of Hawaii, 18 recipients of the first-ever Digital Equity Innovation Awards (DEIA) were honored today. Digital Equity Innovation Awards Honors Those Helping to Close the Digital Divide in Hawaii Read More Entries from News James Kunane Tokioka Director Dane K. Wicker Deputy Director Programs Business Resources Energy Economy Foreign Trade Zone Creative Industries Census DBEDT Websites Business Development & Support Division Hawaii Defense Economy Made in Hawaii Creative Industries Division Hawaii Film Office Creative Lab Hawaii Foreign-Trade Zone Division Hawaii Broadband & Digital Equity Office Research & Economic Analysis Division Hawaii State Data Center Visitor Statistics Small Business Regulatory Review Board Agribusiness Development Corporation Aloha Stadium | Stadium Authority Hawaii Community Development Authority Hawaii Green Infrastructure Authority Hawaii Housing Finance & Development Corp. Hawaii State Energy Office Hawaii Green Business Program Hawaii Technology Development Corp. Entrepreneurs Sandbox Hawaii Tourism Authority Natural Energy Laboratory of Hawaii Authority HOST Park Office of Planning and Sustainable Development Geospatial Data Portal Land Use Commission Information Resources Read More Information Resources Plan a Vacation Read More Plan a Vacation Business Resources Read More Business Resources About Us Contact UIPA Requests DBEDT Limited English Proficiency Plan Site Map Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy DBEDT Notice Under the ADA 808 586-2355 Contact the Webmaster Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/annuals/2021/2050-sustainability-plan.pdf) ---
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)
Hawai‘i 2050 
SUSTAINABILITY PLAN 
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 ’
’
’
’
-‘
-Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030) 
June 2021 
A publication of the Hawai‘i State Office of Planning, pursuant 
to Act 146, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019. 
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Āina i ka Pono 
The Life of the Land is Perpetuated in Righteousness 
ABOUT THE VISUAL DESIGN,  by Stephanie Chang Design Ink: 
Ancestral wisdom continues to be a source of inspiration throughout. 
Our ancient water system, built and cultivated throughout ahupua‘a, was in graceful alignment with natural weather systems and human need; its design represents whole system health, everything in relationship to each other, kuleana. The Plan s key image (seen here on this page) served as the root for resulting graphic elements which support and amplify the plan s incredible content and ultimately, inspiration for your solutions. The Plan s color system was inspired by artist Bernice Akamine s brilliant color wheel, created using native plants to create Na  Waihoolu‘u Hawai‘i, colors that our kanaka 
kupuna grew, gathered, created, used, viewed, and enjoyed. Mahalo to 
Kamaka‘aina Siepp of The Color Garden for sharing this ‘ike with me. 
This document was printed on recycled paper containing 
30% post-consumer recycled fber.  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
E kuahui like i ka hana 9 
Executive Summary 10 
Hawai‘i's Sustainability and Climate Journey 12 
The Update Process for the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 18 
Recommitting to a Sustainable Future 20 
Hawai‘i's Commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 22 
Sustainable Development Goal 1: No Poverty 26 
Sustainable Development Goal 2: Zero Hunger 30 
Sustainable Development Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being 34 
Sustainable Development Goal 4: Quality Education 38 
Sustainable Development Goal 5: Gender Equality 42 
Sustainable Development Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation 46 
Sustainable Development Goal 7: Afordable and Clean Energy 50 
Sustainable Development Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth 54 
Sustainable Development Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure 58 
Sustainable Development Goal 10: Reduce Inequalities 62 
Sustainable Development Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities 66 
Sustainable Development Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production 70 
Sustainable Development Goal 13: Climate Action 74 
Sustainable Development Goal 14: Life Below Water 80 
Sustainable Development Goal 15: Life on Land 84 
Sustainable Development Goal 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 88 
Sustainable Development Goal 17: Partnerships 92 
2021–2030 Recommended Actions 96 
Promote a Sustainable Economic Recovery 98 
Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions 100 
Improve Climate Resilience 102 
Advance Sustainable Communities 103 
Advance Equity 104 
Institutionalize Sustainability Throughout Government 105 
Preserve the Natural Environment 106 
Perpetuate Traditional Ecological Knowledge and Values 108 
‘A‘ohe hana nui ke alu ‘ia 109 
References 110 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MESSAGE FROM THE GOVERNOR 
Recognizing the Publication, Revision, and Decennial Update of the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030) 
Sustainability is not simply a goal; it is a commitment and a responsibility for all of us throughout the State of 
Hawai‘i. We are all connected to Hawai‘i's sustainable future in everything that we do — connected as a family, connected 
with our communities, and connected to our ‘āina.  Knowing this, we must protect Hawai‘i for our children and for their 
future. We, as a state, must continue to actively work on the sustainable development and climate adaptation of our islands without compromising the ability of future generations of Hawai‘i to thrive. 
This decennial update of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan serves as our State's climate and sustainability strategic 
action plan moving forward. This update will guide the crucial 2020-2030 Decade of Action which the United Nations declared to accelerate sustainable solutions for our biggest challenges. Hawai‘i's economic recovery from the COVID-19 global pandemic, as recommended by this updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, must be central to our shared responsibility and climate resilience eforts over this Decade of Action. Finally, this plan furthers my Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiatives – which aim to protect Hawai‘i's watersheds and nearshore waters; prevent, detect and control invasive species; double local food production; and reach 100 percent renewable energy use in the electricity sector by the year 2045. 
I applaud the staf of the State of Hawai‘i's Statewide Sustainability Program within the State's Ofce of Planning and all 
State departments and staf who participated in this plan and recognize our collective commitment to coordinate, develop, and promote policies and programs that assist in meeting Hawai‘i's statewide sustainability and climate policies and goals. Mahalo for working diligently to develop this living document. 
I remain committed to statewide sustainability and climate adaptation and will continue to work with the 
Legislature, counties, private sector and the community to achieve our sustainability and climate resiliency goals. 
Together, we can do great things. With warmest regards, 
�J�
David Y. Ige 
Governor 
State of Hawai‘i 
2  
 
 
  
 
  ALOHA! 
It is our pleasure to share this important document, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: 
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030) with you. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning has the unique charge to work collaboratively with state and 
county agencies and facilitate a collective effort to achieve shared statewide sustainability and climate resilience goals for Hawai‘i.  
We are honored to deliver the update of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, to serve as our State's climate 
and sustainability strategic action plan moving forward, pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65.  
We are committed to coordinating Hawai‘i's statewide sustainability and climate resilience 
goals with the recent establishment of the first Statewide Sustainability Program in 2020, 
pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8.   
The United Nations declared this important decade as the “Decade of Action,” to accelerate 
sustainable solutions for our biggest challenges worldwide – ranging from poverty and gender 
inequities to climate change, inequality and closing the finance gap.  In Hawai‘i, we are witnessing the 
effects of climate change right in front of us: we feel the rising temperatures; we experience increased 
severe storms and hazardous flooding throughout our islands; we see our coastlines eroding and our 
shoreline inundated; and we encounter the effects of drought and increased wildfires in our communities.  
Hawai‘i's climate is changing, and we must act together to incorporate climate resilience and 
sustainable development in our everyday lives. 
This Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan was developed by conducting an extensive statewide public 
engagement, consistent with a community-driven approach, in addition to collaborating with state and 
county stakeholder agencies to create this plan.  As a living document, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
has evolved throughout the decades. It is a shared vision that this plan will bring a renewed focus on the 
implementation of Hawai‘i's sustainable development and climate resilience. 
We want to express our sincere thanks to the members of the public who participated and contributed  their 
time to share personal feedback. We thank the many private and non-governmental partners who 
participated in this update and shared their professional challenges, success stories, and vision for an equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i.  We share our deep mahalo to the many state and county agencies and government officials who work daily advancing Hawai‘i's environmental, social, and economic 
sustainability and climate resilience, and have contributed their intentions such that the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan might facilitate their role to address gaps, and implement actionable solutions to these 
challenges. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning and the Statewide Sustainability Program will continue 
to work actively on the sustainable development and climate adaptation of the state to meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations of Hawai‘i to meet their own needs. 
Mary Alice Evans 
Director 
Ofce of Planning Danielle M. M. Bass 
State Sustainability Coordinator Statewide Sustainability Program 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 3  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
E ala! E alu! E kuilima! 
The Office of Planning would like to acknowledge the many individuals, organizations, and state and county agencies 
that contributed to the development of this plan.   
Mahalo to the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan project team who supported the development of this 
plan, led by Danielle Bass with support from Brittaney Key of the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning's Statewide 
Sustainability Program, the ICF team lead by Susan Asam and Leslie Chinery with support from Brad Hurley, 
Jamie Liu, Mollie Carroll, Samantha Heitsch, Grace Tamble, and Eliza Puritz. Mahalo to Neil Hannahs for 
providing support throughout this project. Mahalo to Jonathan Scheuer for serving as lead facilitator through the 
public engagement sessions and providing technical support throughout this project. Mahalo to Stephanie Chang 
for the graphic design and layout of this plan.  
Mahalo to the state and county agencies who provided review, inputs, and other participation in 
development of the plan, including: 
State of Hawai‘i Ofce of the Governor 
Ofce of the Lieutenant Governor Members of the Hawai‘i State Legislature Department of Accounting and General Services State Procurement Ofce Department of Agriculture Agribusiness Development Corporation Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT) DBEDT – Business Development and Support Division DBEDT – Creative Industries Division DBEDT – Hawai‘i Broadband Initiative DBEDT – Research and Economic Analysis Division Hawai‘i Community Development Authority Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation Hawai‘i State Energy Ofce Hawai‘i Technology Development Corporation Hawai‘i Tourism Authority Land Use Commission Natural Energy Laboratory of Hawai‘i Authority State of Hawai‘i Ofce of Planning – Coastal Zone Management Program State of Hawai‘i Ofce of Planning – Land Use Division Public Utilities Commission Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency State Disaster Recovery Coordinator State of Hawai‘i Ofce of Homeland Security Department of Education Department of Hawaiian Home Lands Department of Health (DOH) DOH – Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Division DOH – Clean Air Branch DOH – Clean Water Branch DOH – Hazard Evaluation and Emergency Response Ofce DOH – Primary Prevention Branch DOH – Safe Drinking Water Branch DOH – Solid and Hazardous Waste Branch DOH – Wastewater Branch Department of Human Services Hawai‘i Public Housing Authority State Homelessness Coordinator State Commission on the Status of Women Department of Labor and Industrial Relations Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR) Commission on Water Resource Management DLNR – Division of Aquatic Resources DLNR – Engineering Division DLNR – Division of Forestry and Wildlife DLNR – Land Division DLNR – Division of State Parks Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission Hawai‘i Invasive Species Council Kaho‘olawe Island Reserve Commission DLNR – Ofce of Conservation and Coastal Lands Department of Transportation O‘ahu Metropolitan Planning Organization University of Hawai‘i UH – School of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology City and County of Honolulu Ofce of the Mayor Members of the Honolulu City Council City and County of Honolulu – Board of Water Supply City and County of Honolulu – Department of Environmental Services City and County of Honolulu – Department of Planning and
   Permitting 
City and County of Honolulu – Ofce of Climate Change,
   Sustainability, and Resilience 
City and County of Honolulu – Ofce of Economic Revitalization County of Hawai‘i Ofce of the Mayor Members of the Hawai‘i County Council County of Hawai‘i – Department of Planning County of Hawai‘i – Department of Research and Development County of Hawai‘i – Department of Environmental Management County of Kaua‘i Ofce of the Mayor Members of the Kaua‘i County Council County of Kaua‘i – Department of Planning County of Kaua‘i – Department of Public Works County of Kaua‘i – Kaua‘i Emergency Management Agency County of Kaua‘i – Ofce of Economic Development County of Maui Ofce of the Mayor Members of the Maui County Council County of Maui – Department of Environmental Management County of Maui – Department of Planning County of Maui – Department of Water Supply County of Maui – Ofce of Climate Action, Sustainability, and
    Resilience 
4  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  Mahalo to all the individuals and organizations that helped develop the “Sustaining Hawai‘i” series, 
showcasing sustainability and resilience in action across the state, including: 
State of Hawai‘i Ofce of the Governor 
Members of the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
State of Hawai‘i DLNR, Division of Aquatic
Resources 
State of Hawai‘i DLNR, Division of State Parks 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation 
Hawai‘i State Energy Ofce Hawai‘i Tourism Authority 
City and County of Honolulu Board of Water
Supply 
City and County of Honolulu Ofce of Climate
Change, Sustainability, and Resiliency Members of the Hawai‘i County Council 
County of Kaua‘i Planning Department 
Kaua‘i Emergency Management Agency 
Members of the Maui County Council County of Maui – Ofce of Climate Action,
Sustainability, and Resilience 
‘Āina Momona 
AmeriCorps Volunteers in Service to America Andrew Richard Hara Friends of Hanauma Bay Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships Hawai‘i Cattlemen's Council Hawai‘i Community Foundation Hawai‘i Farm Bureau Kō Hana Distillers Lāna‘i Community Health Center Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance Pacifc Biodiesel Pu‘uhonua o Puna U.S. Green Building Council – Hawai‘i Chapter Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center Windward Zero Waste School Hui 
Mahalo to many people who lent their hands in many diferent ways, including participants in the 
virtual public information sharing sessions including the public and community members from the islands of 
Hawai‘i, Maui, Molokai, Lāna‘i, Kaho‘olawe, O‘ahu, and Kaua‘i, State and County agencies as previously acknowledged, and 
participants from the following organizations, including: 
350 Hawai‘i 
AECOM AES Hawai‘i AHL Aloha Harvest Aloha United Way Arizona State University Bank of Hawai‘i Blue Zones Project Hawai‘i Building Industry Association of Hawai‘i Building Owners and Managers Association
    of Hawai‘i 
Chamber of Commerce Hawai‘i Chaminade University of Honolulu Conservation Council for Hawai‘i Conservation International Hawai‘i Earth Justice Mid-Pacifc Regional Ofce East West Center Elemental Excelerator Environmental Caucus of Hawai‘i Faith Action Environmental Justice Task 
Force 
First Hawaiian Bank Hawai‘i Alliance for Community Based
   Economic Development 
Hawai‘i Alliance of Nonproft Organizations Hawai‘i Bicycling League Hawai‘i Cattlemen's Council Hawai‘i Children's Action Network Hawai‘i Community Foundation Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance Hawai‘i Electric Vehicle Association Hawai‘i Energy Hawai‘i Farm Bureau Hawai‘i Farmers Union United Hawai‘i Food Industry Association Hawai‘i Foreign Trade Zone 9 Hawai‘i Gas Hawai‘i Green Growth Hawai‘i Institute for Human Rights Hawai‘i Medical Services Association Hawai‘i Pacifc Health Hawai‘i Pacifc University Hawai‘i Philanthropy Forum Hawai‘i Primary Care Association Hawai‘i Public Health Institute Hawai‘i Sea Grant Hawai‘i Youth Climate Coalition Hawai‘i Appleseed Center for Law and
Economic Justice 
Hawaiian Airlines Hawaiian Electric Company Hawaiian Telcom, Inc. Healthcare Association of Hawai‘i HHF Historic Hawai‘i Foundation ILWU Hawai‘i Integral Group Interstate Restoration Island Signal Kamehameha Schools Kanu Hawai‘i Kaua‘i Island Utility Cooperative Kawanui Farm Kohala Institute Kokua Hawai‘i Foundation Kualoa Ranch Kupu Hawai‘i LGBT Caucus of Hawai‘i Mari's Gardens Marriott International Maui Economic Opportunity, Inc. New York University Ofce of Hawaiian Afairs Ola Hawai‘i One World One Water Pacifc Biodiesel Pacifc Gateway Center Parents and Children Together PBR Hawai‘i Pūlama Lāna‘i Retail Merchants of Hawai‘i Roth Ecological Design International Sierra Club of Hawai‘i SSFM Hawai‘i Surfrider Foundation-Hawai‘i Region Sustainable Coastlines of Hawai‘i Sust‘ainable Moloka‘i Tetratech Hawai‘i The Healy Foundation The Nature Conservancy of Hawai‘i The Queen's Health Systems Trust for Public Land Hawai‘i U.N. Department of Economic and Social Afairs  –
   Division of Sustainable Development 
U.S. Green Building Council – Hawai‘i Chapter U.S. Department of Agriculture – Hawai‘i Ofce U.S. Environmental Protection Agency – Region 9 U.S. Federal Aviation Administration – Western Pacifc
   Region 
U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency – Region 9 U.S. Federal Highways Administration – Hawai‘i Division U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service – Pacifc Region U.S. Geological Survey – Pacifc Region U.S. Housing and Urban Development- Honolulu Field
Ofce 
U.S. Indo – Pacifc Command U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association –
   Pacifc Islands Region 
Ulupono Initiative University of Hawai‘i – Hilo University of Hawai‘i – Mānoa University of Hawai‘i – West O‘ahu University of Hawai‘i Economic Research Organization Urban Fabrick Vulcan Wastewater Alternatives and Innovations WATG William S. Richardson School of Law Zero Waste Oahu 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 5  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF ACRONYMS 
ADC Agribusiness Development 
Corporation 
AFOLU Agriculture, Forestry, and Land Use 
ALICE Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed 
BOE Board of Education 
BWS Board of Water Supply 
CARES Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic 
Act Security Act 
COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease 2019 
CO2 Carbon Dioxide 
CWRM Commission on Water Resource Management 
CZM Coastal Zone Management Program 
DAR Division of Aquatic Resources 
DBEDT Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism 
DHHL Department of Hawaiian Home Lands 
DLNR Department of Land and Natural Resources 
DOE Department of Education 
DOH Department of Health 
EBT/ Electronic Beneft Transfer/ 
SNAP Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program 
EEPS Energy Efciency Portfolio Standard 
EPA Environmental Protection Agency 
ESSA Every Student Succeeds Act 
FDA Food and Drug Administration 
GDE Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems 
GDP Gross Domestic Product 
GHG Greenhouse Gas 
GWh Gigawatt Hour 
HB House Bill 
HDOA Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture 
HCR House Concurrent Resolution HRS 
HSEO HTA IECC 
IPCC IPPU 
IUCN 
LEED LGBTQ+ MWh 
NCRS 
RPS 
OP SB SCR SDG SLH TOD TRHT 
UN 
UNFCCC 
USFWS 
ZEV Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Hawai‘i State Energy Ofce Hawai‘i Tourism Authority International Energy Conservation 
Code 
U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change 
Industrial Processes and Product Use 
International Union for Conservation 
of Nature 
Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design 
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, 
and Queer 
Megawatt Hour 
Natural Resources Conservation 
Service 
Renewable Portfolio Standard 
Ofce of Planning Senate Bill Senate Concurrent Resolution Sustainable Development Goal Session Laws of Hawai‘i Transit-Oriented Development Truth, Racial Healing, and 
Transformation 
United Nations 
United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
Zero-Emission Vehicle 
6  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  - -GLOSSARY OF HA W AIIAN WORDS & PHRASES 
This list provides the following words, phrases, and 
their corresponding definitions used in this 
document. The translations are shortened from 
Ulukau, the Hawaiian Electric Library. 1 
Ahupua‘a means a land division usually extending 
from the uplands to the sea, so called because the 
boundary was marked by a heap (ahu) of stones surmounted by an image of a pig (pua‘a), or because a 
pig or other tribute was laid on the altar as tax to the 
Chief. The boundaries of an ahupua‘a are based on 
the region's watersheds. 
-‘Aina means land, earth. 
-‘Aina momona means rich, abundant, productive, 
fertile lands which sustain life. 
‘Aina Pono means righteous meal, or good meal. 
Aloha means affection, love, compassion for others. 
The phrase also serves as Greetings, Hello, Good Bye, 
Farewell. 
-Ha lau hula means a school or hall in which the 
Hawaiian dance form called hula is practiced, hula school. 
-Ha wai (Neritina granosa) means a freshwater snail 
endemic to Hawai‘i. 
Holomua means progress, or to move forward. 
‘Ike means knowledge, or wisdom. 
Kama‘ -aina means a native-born, one born in a place, 
host. 
-Ka naka Maoli means Native Hawaiians. 
-Ka kou means we (inclusive, three or more), ours. 
Kapu means forbidden, sacred. 
Keiki means child or children. 
Kuleana means right, privilege, concern, 
responsibility. 
Ko‘a means coral. 
Kumulipo means origin, or source of life; and is the 
name of the Hawaiian creation chant. 
Kupu means to sprout, or to grow. 
1 Available online at: http://wehewehe.org. Lo‘i means irrigated terrace, especially for taro. 
Lo‘i Kalo means taro terrace. 
Loko I‘a means Hawaiian fshponds. Ma kai means toward the ocean. 
-Maka‘ainana means people that attend the land. 
-Ma keke  means market. 
-Mala means garden, plantation, patch, or cultivated 
feld. Malama ‘a ina means to care for the land. 
-Malama Hawai‘i means to care for Hawai‘i. 
-Malama Honua means to care for the Earth. Mana‘o means a thought or belief. Ma uka means inland or toward the upland. Momona means fertile, or rich, as soil. ‘Ōlelo means language or speech. 
‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i means Hawaiian language. 
‘O‘opu means a type of freshwater fsh or goby, 
which generally describes any of the four endemic or one indigenous species in Hawai‘i. [‘O‘opu hi‘u kole (Lentipes concolor), ‘O‘opu nōpili (Sicyopterus stimpsoni), ‘O‘opu nākea (Awaous guamensis), ‘O‘opu naniha (Stenogoblus hawaiiensis), and ‘O‘opu ‘akupa (Eleotris sandwicensis)] 
‘Ōpae means a type of freshwater shrimp, which 
generally describes either of the two endemic shrimp species in Hawai‘i. [‘Ōpae kala‘ole (Atyoida bisulcata), and ‘Ōpae ‘oeha‘a (Macrobrachium grandimanus)] 
Pono means goodness, uprightness, morality, moral 
qualities, correct or proper procedure, excellence, equity, fair, righteous, welfare, and wellbeing. 
Pu‘uhonua means place of refuge. 
-Pae‘aina Hawai‘i means the Hawaiian Islands. Wahi Kapu means sacred place. Wahi Pana means legendary place. Wahine means woman. 
-Wa hine means women, the plural of woman. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
|| 7 GLOSSARY OF HA W AIIAN PROVERBS 
– ‘Olelo No‘eau 
The following list provides the Hawaiian proverbs and their corresponding defnitions used in this document. 
Integrating Hawaiian proverbs and poetry raises awareness of ‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i and ‘Ōlelo No‘eau, as well as cultivates appreciation for the Hawaiian cultural ethos of environmental guardianship. The ‘Ōlelo No‘eau referenced herein are from the collection in ‘Ōlelo No‘eau: Hawaiian Proverbs & Poetical Sayings – collected, translated, and annotated by Mary Kawena Pukui. 
‘A ‘ohe hana nui ke alu ‘ia 
No task is too big when done together by all. 
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #142) 
E ala! E alu! E kuilima! 
Up! Together! Join Hands! 
A call to come together to tackle a given task. 
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #258) 
E kuahui like i ka hana 
Let everybody pitch in and work together. 
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #323) 
Hahai no ka ua i ka ululā‘au 
Rains always follow the forest. 
The rains are attracted to forest trees. Knowing this Hawaiians hewed only the trees that were needed. 
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #405) 
Ma ka hana ka ‘ike
 In working one learns. 
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #2088) 
Ua mau ke ea o ka ‘āina i ka pono 
The life of the land is preserved in righteousness. 
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #2829) 
In addition to the ‘Ōlelo No‘eau referenced above, the following Hawaiian proverbs and their corresponding 
defnitions were also used in during the virtual public information sharing sessions and public outreach for this Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan. 
‘A ‘ohe pu‘u ki‘eki‘e ke ho‘ā‘o ‘ia e pi‘i 
No clif is so tall that it cannot be scaled. 
No problem is too great when one tries hard to solve it. 
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #209) 
Hili hewa ka mana‘o ke ‘ole ke kūkākūkā 
Ideas run wild without  discussion. 
Discussion brings ideas together into a plan. 
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #993) 
8  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
E KUAHUI LIKE I KA HANA 
Let Everyone Pitch In And Work T ogether 
The State of Hawai‘i has a strong history and positive momentum across a range of public and 
private efforts to set the state on a course toward climate resilience, and economic, social,  and 
environmental sustainability. Existing State policies, S tate and County agency programs, and 
voluntary initiatives such as the Aloha+ Challenge and the Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative are driving 
progress, while the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have created a destination in 
the form of a globally unified set of 17 targets. 
Concurrently, the state's isolation and finite resources have limited the affordable access to housing, 
utilities, transportation, and food for many of Hawai‘i's residents.  The recent COVID-19 global pandemic exacerbated many of these economic and social challenges. Environmental impacts from 
pollution and invasive species continue to threaten our islands‘ native biodiversity, while  Hawai‘i's 
changing climate unfolds. Climate change in  Hawai‘i will exacerbate these existing problems and inflict 
more statewide challenges including sea level rise, drought, wildfires, hurricanes, precipitation loss, 
rising temperatures, and increased risks to public health. 
These disruptions and challenges offer an opportunity to rethink how and where we invest — 
to identify needed adjustments to promote local food production, climate resilience, green 
infrastructure, resource management, affordable housing, and more. 
As we do so, we can draw inspiration and guidance from well-adapted traditional Hawaiian ahupua‘a 
values and practices that foster a systems approach to stewardship, sustainable well-being, and 
intergenerational equity (the duty of present generations to support future generations). 
To create a vibrant, resilient economy, a healthy quality of life grounded in a multi-ethnic 
culture and Kānaka Maoli values, and healthy natural resources—we need a shared 
understanding of our goals and the actions required to achieve them. Within this context, the 
State of Hawai‘i is updating and revising the scope of its  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve as the 
State's climate and sustainability strategic action plan, pursuant to  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65. 
This plan includes specific priority strategies and actions to advance economic, social, environmental 
sustainability, and climate resilience in Hawai‘i over this decade.  This Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
describes the existing statewide efforts in relation to the UN SDGs and presents the State's current 
commitments to guide the coordination and implementation of the State's sustainability and climate 
adaptation goals, principles, and policies. 
This plan captures and will help refocus the momentum statewide created through past and 
ongoing initiatives, helping to guide us forward to a more prosperous, equitable, resilient, and 
sustainable future. This is an inclusive journey toward a shared vision of the  Hawai‘i that we 
want to live in and pass on to future generations. Achieving this vision will require a kākou 
effort, with all of  Hawai‘i's government agencies, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and 
citizens to pitch in and work together. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 9   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030) 
The United Nations designated 2020–2030 as the “Decade of Action,” a time to accelerate progress toward 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a globally unified set of 17 targets. The people of 
Hawai‘i are committed to and have built positive momentum toward achieving these goals across 
a range of public and private efforts to achieve the SDGs by 2030. In coordination with existing State 
policies, State and County agency programs, and voluntary initiatives such as the Aloha+ Challenge and the 
Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative, this Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan recommends additional actions to achieve 
near-term solutions for Hawai‘i's climate resilience and economic, social, and environmental sustainability. 
To cultivate a vibrant, resilient economy, a healthy quality of life grounded in a multi-ethnic culture and 
Kānaka Maoli values, and healthy natural resources—we need a shared understanding of our goals and the 
actions required to achieve them. While the COVID-19 global pandemic underscored Hawai‘i's economic and community vulnerabilities and inequities with regard to ensuring basic necessities including food security, 
housing affordability, and household financial security—it also provided a unique opportunity to rethink 
and recalibrate Hawai‘i's “new normal” through an equitable, resilient, and sustainable recovery. 
To inform the evolution of Hawai‘i's “new normal,” and consistent with a community-driven approach, this 
updated plan employed an extensive engagement and outreach process that included two public surveys, 
multiple stakeholder interviews, and nine virtual public information-sharing sessions. This public 
engagement process identified climate action as the top sustainability priority to achieve within 
this decade, followed by sustainable cities and communities and clean and affordable energy, and 
the need to increase Hawai‘i's local food production and food security. 
Input from this extensive public engagement informed the development of this plan by providing insights into a 
shared vision for Hawai‘i's sustainable economic recovery. The dialogue with stakeholders and the public 
recognized actions that organizations are already taking to achieve the SDGs, identified policy and program gaps, and recommended actions to enhance sustainability and climate change adaptation in Hawai‘i. 
This updated plan fulfills the revised the scope of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve as the State's 
climate and sustainability strategic action plan, pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65. Hawai‘i has 
made significant sustainability commitments through laws, policies, and plans that reflect our local 
values. For the first time, this updated plan presents Hawai‘i's commitments as a collective whole and aligned 
with the SDGs. There is much work yet to be done to achieve these sustainability and climate goals and 
commitments. 
This plan identifies 8 focus areas with 38 strategies and more than 250 recommended actions that 
point to what is urgent to undertake over this decade. These focus areas align with priorities identified 
through public and stakeholder engagement, as well as ongoing commitments the State has made as described 
in this plan. 
10  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DECADE OF ACTION: 
Promote a 
Sustainable 
Economic Recovery 
through strategies that 
support local 
agriculture, 
green workforce Reduce Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
by continuing to 
monitor the state's 
emissions and reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through Improve Climate 
Resilience by 
continuing to 
monitor and adapt to climate impacts and take actions to increase the 1 2 3 4 
development and 
education, and 
sustainable and 
regenerative tourism. 
5Advance Equity 
by ensuring equitable 
access to resources, 
addressing affordable 
housing and 
homelessness crises, 
and improving gender 
equity. strategies in the energy, 
transportation, 
agriculture and waste sectors. 
Institutionalize 
Sustainability 
Throughout 6 7 
Government 
by increasing the 
government's capacity 
through institutionalized collaboration to address 
sustainability and 
greening government operations. resilience of the 
natural and built environments and 
their occupants. 
Preserve 
the Natural Environment, 
including a focus on 
clean water, marine resources and ecosystems, and natural resource protection. 8 Advance Sustainable 
Communities through 
strategies that improve 
land use and access 
to green space, advance sustainable practices in schools, and encourage 
sustainable 
buildings and 
infrastructure. 
Perpetuate 
Traditional 
Ecological Knowledge  
and Values as Hawai‘i 
collectively tackles 
these sustainability and climate challenges. 
UL TIMATELY, A SUCCESSFUL DECADE OF ACTION 
IN HAWAI‘I WILL REQUIRE: 
• Strategic prioritization of 
limited resources. When 
prioritizing investments, 
funders should evaluate whether the activity contributes to one or more SDG, is ready for action (e.g., existing targets, policies, plans, and/ or partnerships are in place), addresses an urgent need, directly or indirectly addresses equity, explicitly 
protects Hawai‘i's local 
values, and will benefit 
local residents. • Identification and 
commitment from lead and 
supporting actors. There 
are opportunities for everyone (elected officials, state agencies, counties, the private sector, community organizations, students, and residents) to lead or support efforts to achieve these 
strategies. 
Collaboration is essential. • Development of metrics 
to defne success and then 
enable measurement and 
tracking of our progress. 
Defned endpoints and 
metrics for success 
will make it possible to 
measure advancements 
and identify where gaps 
remain; in some cases, 
targets and metrics have 
already been identifed 
whereas a collective vision 
will need to be developed 
in other cases. •A realistic timeline to 
work toward. We can move 
quickly to start some strategies, for which sustained efforts will be necessary to make steady, incremental progress. Other sustainability and climate strategies may require significant upfront planning, buy-in from disparate parties, and securing financial support before a swift and dramatic change can be made. Establishing clear and feasible timelines that set 
out incremental milestones 
will ensure greater success. 
Let's work together to achieve an equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i! 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 11  
     
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HAWAI‘I'S SU STAINABILITY 
& CLIMATE JOURNEY 
Let Everyone Pitch In And Work Together 
This updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
is not the state's first step on the journey toward a sustainable future: 
The Hawai‘i State Auditor 
The State published its 
frst Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Action Plan. published the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability Plan to 
address the vital needs of 
Hawai‘i through the year 
2050 and beyond. The State's Climate 
Change Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines were codifed in 
the Hawai‘i State Planning 
Act, as HRS §226-109. 
1998 2008 2012 
2005 
Act 8, Special Session 
Laws of Hawai‘i 2005 
established the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Task Force 
(2005–2008) and directed 
the task force to develop the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan. 2011 
The State's 
Sustainability Priority 
Guidelines were codifed 
in the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act, as HRS 
§226-108. 2014 
Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 69 was 
passed to establish 
the Aloha+ Challenge 
Goals, which were 
inspired by the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability 
Plan. 
12  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Mitigation and 
Adaptation Commission 
was established by 
HRS §225P-3. 
and 
Hawai‘i became the 
first state in the nation 
to enact legislation 
committing to the 
United Nations Paris 
Agreement, through the 
enactment of Act 32, 
Session Laws of 
Hawai‘i 2017. 
2017 Act 146, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 
2019, codified as HRS §226-65, 
amended the scope of the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
to serve as the State's climate and 
sustainability strategic action plan 
to determine future actions guiding 
coordination and implementation 
of sustainability and climate 
adaptation goals, principles, and 
policies. The law directs the State 
of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning to 
update the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan every 10 years. 
2019 The State of 
Hawai‘i became 
the frst state 
in the nation to 
declare a climate 
emergency by 
adopting Senate 
Concurrent 
Resolution 44. The Hawai‘i State 
Legislature passed House 
Bill (HB) 11491 and HB 
1318,1which together, 
consolidate government land 
use functions of different 
agencies in order to improve 
the coordination of state 
government to work more 
effciently to achieve the 
state's sustainability and 
climate change goals for 
a more abundant future 
for the people of Hawai‘i, 
and renames the Offce of 
Planning to the “Offce of 
Planning and Sustainable 
Development.” 
2021 This document, the updated Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan, was released. 
2018 
The State's Greenhouse Gas 
Sequestration Task Force was 
established through HRS §225P-4, 
to increase greenhouse gas 
sequestration. 
and 
The Hawai‘i State Auditor, with the 
assistance of the State of Hawai‘i's 
Office of Planning, undertook a 10-
year measurement of the 2008 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
that evaluated the plan's progress 
between 2008 and 2017. 2020 
The State of Hawai‘i's 
Offce of Planning 
was revised by Act 
45, Session Laws 
of Hawai‘i 2020, to 
provide statewide 
sustainability, climate 
adaptation, and sea 
level rise adaptation 
planning and 
coordination. The State offcially established the state's frst Statewide Sustainability Program also through Act 45, codifed as Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8, to provide statewide sustainability and climate adaptation planning and coordination. The Statewide Sustainability Program is directed to develop, organize, and promote policies and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and climate policies and goals. 
1 At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature and transmitted to 
the Governor for consideration. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
|| 13   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 The State of Hawai‘i's Legal and Statutory Sustainability Targets 
The State of Hawai‘i has enacted and codified many legal and statutory targets to prepare for and transition 
Hawai‘i toward its sustainable and climate-resilient future. 
BY: TARGET: 
2000 Statewide Recycling Goal HRS §342G-3 
Establishes a statewide goal to reduce the solid waste stream prior to disposal by 50% through source 
reduction, recycling, and bioconversion by January 1, 2000 
2010 Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 10% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2010. 
2015 Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the State to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 15% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2015. 
2020 Statewide Greenhouse Gas Emissions Limit HRS §342B-71 
Establishes a statewide greenhouse gas emissions cap to be equal to or below the level of the statewide 
greenhouse gas emissions in 1990 by the year 2020. 
Statewide Prohibition of Coal Power HRS §269-48 
Prevents the State Public Utilities Commission from approving new, renewed, or extending power proposals 
within the state to burn or consume coal to generate electricity beginning June 30, 2020. 
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 30% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2020. 
2022 Statewide Ban of Coal Power for Electricity Generation HRS §342B-36 
Concludes all coal burning within the state on December 31, 2022. 
2025 Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each State department to ensure that 10% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by 
January 1, 2025. 
2030 Statewide Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standards HRS §269-96 
Requires that 4,300 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity use be reduced by 2030. 
Double Local Food Production Act 151, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019 
Directs the State Department of Agriculture to develop a strategic plan to double local food production and 
increase food exports by 2030. 
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 40% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2030. 
14 *At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State 
Legislature and transmitted to the Governor for consideration. Clean Transportation Goal: State Fleet Transition to Zero Emission Vehicles HB 552, 2021* 
Requires the transition of 100% of the State's fleet that are light-duty motor vehicles passenger cars to be zero-
emission vehicles by December 31, 2030. 
Local Farm to School Meal Goal HB 767, 2021* 
Requires the State Department of Education to serve 30% of food served in public schools to consist of locally sourced 
products by 2030. 
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each State department to ensure that 18% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2030. 
Hawai‘i Public Schools Net-Zero Energy Goal HRS §302A-1510 
Requires the State Department of Education to becom e net-zero in energy use, producing as much renewable energy 
as it consumes across all public school facilities by January 1, 2035. 
University of Hawai‘i Net-Zero Energy Goal HRS §304A-119 
Requires the University of Hawai‘i to become net-zero in energy use, producing as much renewable energy as it 
consumes across all campuses by January 1, 2035. 
Clean Transportation Goal: State Fleet Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle HB 552, 2021* 
Requires the transition of 100% of the State's fleet for all other light-duty motor vehicles to be zero-emission vehicles 
by December 31, 2035. 
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each State department to ensure that 26% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2035. 
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a renewable 
portfolio standard of 70% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2040. 
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each State department to ensure that 34% of the produce purchased by that department consists of fresh local agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2040. 
Reclaimed Water in State and County Facilities HRS §174C-31 (g) (6) 
Requires the use of reclaimed water in 100% of State and County facilities, except for drinking and potable water uses, by December 31, 2045. 
Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target HRS §225P-5 
Establishes a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and greenhouse gases than emitted within the 
state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045. 
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 100% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2045. 
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each State department to ensure that 42% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2045. 
Statewide Cesspool Conversion HRS §342D-72 
Requires the mandatory upgrade, conversion, or connection of all cesspools statewide (over 88,000 cesspools) by 
January 1, 2050. 
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each state department to ensure that 50% of the produce purchased by that department consists of fresh local agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2050. BY: TARGET: 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   15 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   2030
2035
2040
2045
2050(Continued)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 The Aloha+ Challenge 
Inspired by the 2008 publication of 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, and the Micronesian Challenge, the State of  Hawai‘i adopted Senate Concurrent Resolution 69 in 2014 establishing the Aloha+ Challenge goals. Unlike the legal and statutory targets presented in the previous section, the Aloha+ Challenge Goals are not legally codifed but set informal, integrated goals and six ambitious targets to be achieved by 2030. By 2030: 
1. Clean Energy: Achieve 70% clean energy, with 40% from 
renewable sources and 30% from efciency, with a view toward 100% renewable energy by 2045. 
2. Local Food:  At least double the local food production with a 
goal of 20–30% of food consumed being grown locally. 
3. Natural Resource Management:  Reverse the trend of 
natural resource loss mauka to makai by increasing watershed protection, community-based marine management, invasive species prevention and control, increasing freshwater capacity, and restoration of native species. 
4. Waste Reduction:  Reduce the solid waste stream prior to 
disposal by 50%, through source reduction, recycling, and bioconversion. 
5. Smart Sustainable Communities:  Increase livability and 
resilience in the built environment through planning and 
implementation at the state and county levels. 
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative 
In September 2016, the State of Hawai‘i hosted the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) World Conservation Congress, with more than 10,000 participants from 192 countries. At this meeting, the State announced its Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative, which focuses on conservation and environmental sustainability. These commitments are not legally binding and may be updated or replaced by commitments codifed in law. Sustainable Hawai‘i Commitments: 
1. Double local food production by 2020 
2. Implement the Interagency Biosecurity Plan by 2027 3. Protect 30% of Hawai‘i priority watersheds by 2030 4. Efectively manage 30% of Hawai‘i nearshore ocean waters 
by 2030 
5. Achieve 100% renewable energy by 2045 
16  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 17  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 THE UPDATE PROCESS 
FOR THE HAWAI‘I 2050 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN 
The State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning began a process to update the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan during 
Earth Week in 2020, at the outset of the COVID-19 global pandemic. As the pandemic stretched on and 
development of the plan progressed, it became increasingly clear that a sustainable economic recovery must be 
central to Hawai‘i's sustainability and climate resilience efforts over this decade. 
Consistent with a community-driven approach, this update relied on input from stakeholders and the public 
through an engagement process that involved two surveys, nine virtual information-sharing sessions, interviews 
with stakeholders, and a broad public outreach effort.  Input from these engagements informed the development of 
this plan by providing insights into a shared vision for a sustainable economic recovery,  recognizing actions that 
various organizations are already taking to achieve the SDGs, discussing policy and program gaps, and identifying 
actions to enhance sustainability and climate change adaptation in Hawai‘i . 
The Office of Planning reviewed more than 150 existing laws, plans, policies, programs, and strategies relevant to 
sustainability and climate change in  Hawai‘i to determine how their activities and recommendations align with the 
17 SDGs and identify gaps where individual SDGs are not being addressed by existing efforts. Based on the findings 
of this review and the public input gathered during the surveys and information-sharing sessions, the Office of 
Planning then developed an initial list of recommended actions for the 2020–2030 timeframe. A draft plan was 
shared with stakeholders throughout State and County government agencies to solicit feedback and input on priority focus areas. Ultimately, the Office of Planning identified a set of near-term priority focus areas based on 
pressing climate resilience and economic, social, and environmental issues, this plan's extensive stakeholder 
feedback and public outreach process, and State initiatives and priorities. The selection process prioritized 
actions that address multiple SDGs, have strong support from stakeholders and the public, and can be implemented 
in this decade (between 2020 and 2030). 
2 Public surveys 
9 Public Virtual Information Sharing Sessions 
Participating agencies, organizations, 
and nonprofits 
Existing plans, policies, progams, strategies 230 
150 
17 U.N. Sustainabl e Development Goals (SDGs) 
18  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Feedback from Public Engagement 
This plan aims to be useful to the many changemakers in  Hawai‘i whose actions have and will continue to help 
achieve its goals, including (but not limited to): elected ofcials, state agencies, county governments, community organizations, businesses, students and youth, and residents. Any one individual may represent several of these groups and may use diferent elements of this plan for diferent uses (for example, a nonproft organization may fnd the content valuable in supporting their grant-writing eforts while elected ofcials and governmental entities may gain a clearer picture of what policies or actions are considered to be more urgent). As such, it was a critical time to engage with the public on a shared vision for an equitable, climate resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i . 
Through nine virtual public information sharing sessions and two public outreach surveys, the Ofce of Planning 
solicited input from  Hawai‘i residents regarding their vision for a sustainable economic recovery from the COVID-19 global pandemic as well as current policy gaps or barriers to achieving Hawai‘i sustainable future. 
Key concepts shared 
by public participants that emerged that are essential to Hawai‘i sustainable economic recovery included: 
In addition, these 
public sessions and the feedback provided by the public participants identifed where and how Hawai‘i needs to focus its eforts to address these challenges and opportunities: • Hawai‘i has unique challenges but also unique opportunities. 
• Hawai‘i can look to the past for lessons for the future.  Hawai‘i 
can benefit from the value in contemporary restoration of cultural 
practices. 
• Hawai‘i can serve as an example for other islands by modeling 
sustainability. 
• Hawai‘i should pursue goals that increase equity and/or 
explicitly address equity issues in their implementation. 
• The COVID-19 global pandemic had disproportionate impacts on 
ALICE® (Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed) 
households and communities, highlighting a need to invest more 
resources and support in those communities. 
• The COVID-19 global pandemic has highlighted food security 
issues and the need to support local agriculture. 
• Boost childcare, eldercare, and education, and offer support for 
women whose jobs and family roles were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 global pandemic. 
• Rebuild the workforce by empowering youth, investing in green 
and clean energy workforce development, and upskilling the labor force to compete in the global market through initiatives such as 
strengthened broadband for remote work. 
• Pursue innovative opportunities in the clean energy and 
agricultural sectors to enhance economic growth, workforce 
development, and food security. 
• Rely less on imports while making better use of existing local 
resources—including local agriculture—to develop a circular 
economy to become more self-sufficient. 
• Build the economy to serve and be driven by local populations 
(for example, through local food production). 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
|| 19  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 RECOMMITTING TO A 
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
This update serves as a checkpoint and an opportunity for 
recommitment, especially in light of the vulnerabilities 
further highlighted by the COVID-19 global pandemic. 
Now more than ever it is clear that Hawai‘i needs to become 
more resilient, adaptable, equitable, and economically 
diversified. As Hawai‘i recovers and builds back stronger from 
the pandemic, the State can redefine a more sustainable and 
resilient way of life that can protect us against future risks, including those from climate change. 
This plan pursues outcomes reflected with a Kānaka 
Maoli worldview to mālama ‘āina and mālama Honua and contemporary restoration of cultural practices, along with existing state policies (including the Hawai‘i State Planning Act and Functional Plan objectives), the Aloha+ Challenge goals, the Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative goals, and other sustainability and climate resilient laws, policies, and initiatives. 
We are not starting from scratch. “Sustainability” means achieving 
the following: 
• Respect of culture, character, beauty, and 
history of the state's island communities; 
• Striking balance between economic, social, 
community, and environmental priorities; and 
• Meeting the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations 
to meet their own needs. 
(Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-2) 
This updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan is aligned with the SDGs, which provides a pathway to achieving a 
better and more sustainable future for all, and this plan plays a key role in achieving those goals, guiding economic 
diversifcation and development toward sustainability while harnessing innovation and creativity to build resilience 
to climate change and other future risks. 
Developed with collaboration and input from stakeholders around the state, this updated plan provides 
recommendations for priority action areas over this decade that will help advance these goals. This plan does not 
provide a step-by-step guide for what each individual and organization can and should do. It is time to draw upon 
your networks, ‘ike, and enthusiasm to take the steps needed to achieve these goals to continue to mālama Hawai‘i for 
the benefit of Hawai‘i's future generations. 
20  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  This plan identifies 8 focus areas with 38 strategies and more than 250 recommended actions that that will help 
Hawai‘i become more equitable, climate resilient, and sustainable during this Decade of Action. These focus areas 
align with priorities identified through public and stakeholder engagement, as well as ongoing commitments the State 
has made as described in this plan. 
The 8 recommended focus areas for the Decade of Action: 
1Promote a 
Sustainable 
Economic Recovery Reduce 
Greenhouse 2 Gas Emissions Improve Climate 
Resilience by3 continuing to monitor 4 Advance Sustainable 
Communities through 
strategies that improve 
through strategies by continuing to and adapt to climate land use and access 
that support monitor the state's impacts and take to green space, advance 
local agriculture, emissions and reduce actions to increase sustainable practices in 
green workforce greenhouse gas the resilience of the schools, and encourage 
development and (GHG) emissions natural and built sustainable buildings 
education, and through strategies in environments and and infrastructure. 
sustainable and the energy, their occupants. 
regenerative tourism. transportation, 
agriculture and waste 
sectors. 
Advance Equity by Institutionalize Preserve Perpetuate 
ensuring equitable Sustainability the Natural Traditional 
access to resources, Throughout Environment, Ecological Knowledge  5 6 7 8 
addressing afordable Government including a focus on and Values as H awai‘i 
housing and by increasing the clean water, marine collectively tackles 
homelessness crises, government's resources and these sustainability and 
and improving gender capacity through ecosystems, and climate challenges. 
equity. institutionalized natural resource 
collaboration to protection. 
address sustainability 
and greening 
government 
operations. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 21  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 HAWAI‘I'S COMMITMENT TO 
THE SDGS 
The United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development identifed 17 SDGs that represent an urgent call 
for global action to end poverty, improve health and edu cation, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth, 
while tackling climate change and preserving natural resources. The United Nations designated 2020–2030 as 
the “Decade of Action,” a time to accelerate progress toward the SDGs through sustainable solutions in order to 
achieve the goals by 2030 (United Nations 2021). There is a renewed sense of urgency to reduce emissions to 
mitigate the impacts of climate change and meet the goals of the United Nations Paris Agreement to limit global 
warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, above pre-industrial levels (IPCC 2018). The UN SDGs provide a framework to work in alignment with the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
This plan uses the SDGs as a framework for assessing the State's current commitments to sustainability and 
priority actions to take over the coming decade. The SDGs also form the framework of Hawai‘i's Aloha+ 
Challenge, a voluntary initiative that sets six statewide sustainability targets by 2030. 
Hawai‘i enters the Decade of Action with tremendous progress underway. The COVID-19 global pandemic marked both a moment of crisis and a moment of opportunity for Hawai‘i's adaptive change, with the SDGs 
serving as a focal point to guide us toward a sustainable economic recovery. 
The Role of Local Plans in Advancing Sustainability and Climate Resilience 
The County General Plans and the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan are foundationally related within the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act. Both planning requirements are codified within Part II, the Implementation Section of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act, and more importantly, the County General Plans serve as a foundation for  county 
planning. The current and future efforts to integrate the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Hawai‘i's legal and 
statutory sustainability targets, sustainable development, and climate resilience into County General Plans can continue to play a pivotal role in county land use planning. Other local plans and directives directly address 
climate change. In 2019, the Hawai‘i County Council adopted Resolution 322-19, similarly the Maui County 
Council adopted Resolution 19-209, both declaring a Climate Emergency (County of Hawai‘i 2019, County of 
Maui 2019). Honolulu Mayor's Directive 18-2 requires “all City departments and agencies to take a proactive 
approach to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt projects to the physical impacts of climate change.” 
Examples of these plans include: 
The County of Hawai‘i General Plan 2040 is being drafted to contain goals, measurable 
sustainability objectives, and policies and actions to achieve these sustainability objectives. 
The draft plan is structured using a sustainability framework to guide the development of the 
plan. The County of Hawai‘i's draft General Plan 2040 incorporates both climate change 
mitigation and adaptation strategies, and is intended to respect the culture, character, beauty 
and history of the Island of Hawai‘i while attempting to integrate balance between environmental stewardship, social and community equity and economic sufficiency in order to 
meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations of the 
island to meet their own needs.  
The County of Hawai‘i Climate Action Plan is also concurrently being drafted to include 
sectoral suggestions to: reduce emissions, including requiring owners and managers of multi -
family dwellings and multi-tenant commercial buildings to provide recycling; promote a 
circular economy that is designed to minimize pollution, extraction of fossil fuels, and raw materials; support using financial mechanisms to incentivize waste reduction; proposes County 
codes in ways that maximize landfill diversion such as requiring recycling at State and County 
offices, eliminating the sale of Styrofoam and single use plastics, and prohibiting the disposal of organic waste at landfills; and promote pollution prevention and the adoption of sustainable practices by companies, communities, governmental organizations, and individuals. 
22 The County's long-range planning documents (ROH Chapter 24) contain policies to reduce contamination 
and non-point source pollution, increase water conservation, protect sensitive wetland environments, and 
are consistent with the Honolulu Board of Water Supply's W atershed Management Plans (ROH Chapter 30). 
These County long-range development plans address K-12 school facilities and those in potential growth areas support coordinated capacity planning, and co-location with parks and shared use facilities with parks whenever feasible. Long-range planning documents include policies that promote agriculture for the ‘Ewa, Ko‘olau Poko, Ko‘olau Loa, North Shor e, Wai‘anae, and Central O‘ahu regions. 
The City and County of Honolulu Climate Action Plan (2020-2025) serves as a roadmap over 5 years 
aimed at reducing Honolulu’s biggest emitting sectors—transportation net works, building operations, and 
waste systems with 9 distinct strat egies and 47 measurable actions. 
The O‘ahu Resilience Strategy describes key action items to combat and prepare for the most 
devastating effects of climate change. Core action items include developing and implementing climate 
adaptation strategies and fostering a widespread understanding of the threats of climate change to Hawai‘i. 
The strategy also recommends partnerships and liaisons to leverage volunteer and nonprofit assets and improve resilience. 
The Kaua‘i Kākou, Kaua‘i County's General Plan  was recently published in 2018. The General Plan 
is based on the community's vision and goals for Kaua‘i's future: that Kaua‘i will be a sustainable island, a 
unique and beautiful place, a healthy and resilient people, and an equitable place with opportunity f or all.  
The Kaua‘i County General Plan's vision of a sustainable island describing the overarching g oal to grow 
responsibly to meet the needs of current and future generations without depleting resources.  According to the General Plan, Kaua‘i residents widely agreed that sustainability should drive the planning for the 
future. The Kaua‘i County General Plan explains that sustainable development does not endanger the 
natural systems that support life: air, water, soil, and living organisms. Sustainable development means 
meeting the basic needs of society and extending to all people the opportunity to satisfy their aspirations for 
a better life.  As the plan explains, sustainable development means integrating economic and 
environmental considerations in policy and decision-making. The Maui Island Plan, adopted in 2012, reviews factors that influence the physical, social, and economic 
development of the island. The plan addresses key environmental, housing, and economic development 
issues to provide recommendations to protect the community and future generations. Similarly, the West 
Maui Community Plan provides long-term vision for the community and is intended to serve as a policy 
guide for County agencies. 
The Lāna‘i Community Plan and the Moloka‘i Island Community Plan explore island specific 
challenges and opportunites regarding future sustainability. The plans then provide a strategic framework 
to guide policies and actions needed to address the major issues identified in the near future. 
The City and County of Honolulu's General Plan includes policies to: 
• Protect freshwater resources including stream retention, pollution protection, and designing surface 
drainage and food control systems in a way that will help preserve their natural settings. 
• Retain the viability of agriculture on O‘ahu including sufcient land retention, diversifcation, and job 
creation. 
• Support education for all age groups, employable skills education, research institutions, and to make 
Honolulu an education center for the Pacifc. 
• Meet housing objectives to 1) ensure a balanced mix of housing opportunities and choices for all 
residents at prices they can aford, 2) minimize speculation in land and housing, and 3) provide 
residents with a choice of living environments that are close to employment, recreation, and commercial centers and are adequately served by transportation networks and public utilities. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabil ty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
  ||   23 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
This section of the plan provides an overview of existing 
commitments Hawai‘i has made toward each of the 17 SDGs, 
with a focus on existing laws, policies, and strategic plans. The SDG SECTION OVERVIEW OF THIS NEXT 
list of laws, policies and plans is not exhaustive, but rather is 
intended as a representative sample demonstrating Hawai‘i's commitment for each SDG, or its readiness to address each SDG based on existing policy structures and legal commitments. 
The policy structures and legal instruments provide a 
framework for action. It is also important to consider how this 
framework is being used to advance climate change and 
sustainability goals, monitor results, and continue to evolve state programs. 
This section is organized around the 17 SDGs. While presented 
as individual sections below, the 17 SDGs are interdependent: implementing actions under one goal can contribute to progress under many others. 
Each SDG section includes two components: 
The Overview describes the Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 
importance of the SDG to the state summarizes the key la ws, policies, and strategic 
of Hawai‘i, including Hawai‘i's action plans that currently address each SDG. 
1 2 challenges and opportunities This section demonstrates Hawai‘i's 
associated with each SDG. commitment t o the SDG and identifes relevant 
voluntary initiatives and informal targets that 
have been set through agency policies, county governments, statewide initiatives, or strategic plans. 
24  
 Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 25  
  
 
 
 
 
 
NO POVERTY 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 
End poverty in all its forms everywhere 
This UN goal includes targets that address: 
• Reducing extreme poverty 
• Halving the number of people living in poverty 
• Ensuring social protection systems are in place to cover 
poor and vulnerable populations 
• Ensuring equal rights to economic resources and access to basic services, property, natural resources, and technology 
• Reducing vulnerability and exposure to climate-related extreme events and other disasters 
Overview 
Many of Hawai‘i's residents struggle to afford housing, utilities, transportation, healthcare, 
and food. Hawai‘i has the nation's highest rate of homelessness per capita, with an estimated 
15,000 homeless individuals throughout the state (State of Hawai‘i 2019). The COVID-19 global pandemic has exacerbated existing economic stressors, dramatically decreased visitor 
arrivals, prompted unprecedented business closures, and increased unemployment throughout the state. As a result, ALICE® (Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed) households have increased dramatically. 
In addition to the stressors related to the COVID-19 global pandemic that have exacerbated 
existing economic hardships, Hawai‘i is also experiencing increased impacts from climate change, such as such as flooding, sea level rise, drought, and rising temperatures, that place 
further pressure on vulnerable populations and communities. 
The State's most recent (2018) Self-Sufficiency Income Standard estimates found that two of the five family composition groups (one adult, one child, and one adult, two children) were below self-sufficiency income needs (DBEDT 2019).  Further, limited access to broadband technology constrains economic access for all. 
26 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   27 
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 1 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-19 of the Hawai‘i Defines state policy objectives for advancing opportunities for affordable housing and the 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for orderly development of residential areas sensitive to community needs and other land 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—Housing uses. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-22 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-Cultural Advancement—Social Services 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-106 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines for the Provision of Affordable Housing 
Hawai ‘i Revised Statutes §201-3 (a)(
5): Specific 
Research and Promotional Functions of the Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism 
STRA TEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study (2019) 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and 
Ten-Year Plan (2018) 
Housing Functional Plan (2017) Sets objectives to improve public and private social services to enable self-reliance and 
well-being. 
Prioritizes the need and access for affordable housing as a priority guideline for the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act to address as an issue of statewide concern. 
Requires the Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism (DBEDT) to 
establish and biennially update self-suffciency income standards, the amount of money individuals and families require to meet their basic needs without subsidies. 
Serves as a comprehensive assessment of housing markets in Hawai‘i to provide housing 
partners with relevant and crucial information. 
Provides policymakers with a plan to achieve the affordable rental housing goal of 22,500 
units by December 31, 2026 laid out in Act 127 (Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016). 
Developed a baseline of affordable rental units currently in the planning stages or under 
development, implementing actions, and measures of effectiveness to guide achievement 
of the affordable rental housing goals. 
Provides next step recommendations on ways to support affordable rental housing in the 
state. 
Provides specific strategies, policies, and priority actions to address the current housing 
shortage in Hawai‘i through a statewide plan ning system. 
Guides the implementation of the Hawai‘i State Plan housing goals and objectives. 
Covers four priority areas, which include expanding and preserving rental housing 
opportunities, increase homeownership, addressing barriers to residential development, 
and maintaining a housing information system. 
Includes clearly defined problem statements followed by objectives, policies, implementing 
actions and accessory details such as lead organization, budget estimates, start date and measures of effectiveness.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -T W AI‘I SUS AINING HASUST AINING HAW AI‘I 
Over 15% of Hawai‘i's 
residents living in a lava 
fow hazard zone make less than $30,000 a year (HIEMA 2018a). Low income is among the major risk factors for an individual's disaster resiliency, as are community level components like physical infrastructure. However, community resiliency also involves another critical component: social capital. In fact, this element can be an even better predicator of efcient disaster recovery than economic characteristics (Aldrich & Meyer 2015). In May 2018, “fssure 8,” ofcially named “Ahu‘ailā‘au,” 
opened in the Puna district of Hawai‘i Island, marking the 
start of an unprecedented eruption in modern Hawai‘i for its 
size and extent of the damage (NPS 2018). While considered an 
economically disadvantaged area, behind that economic picture Puna is greatly abundant in social capital, and the community's leverage of its interpersonal strengths was key to weathering the 
Kīlauea eruption (County of Hawai‘i 2020). The epitome of this 
could be seen in Pu‘uhonua o Puna, or “The Hub”: a spontaneous 
organization by Puna residents to give evacuees the support they 
needed during the eruption. Aptly named, Pu‘uhonua o Puna 
offered people a place of refuge and sense of belonging, and personal 
networks were utilized to great effect to meet almost any need as it 
arose. An awareness of the mental and physical toll of the eruption 
led to organizing support like art and music therapy, massage, and 
healthcare screenings. Hot meals, made by partners like World 
Central Kitchen, were offered with a flexibility suited to families. A 
mobile showering unit on loan from Project Vision gave a much-needed place to refresh, and led to grassroots fundraising and 
purchase of a unit dedicated to Hawai‘i Island. Underpinning 
everything was a spirit of service, generosity, and dedication as 
volunteers and evacuees alike—and oftentimes they were one and 
the same—rose up to help and support fellow community members. Pu‘uhonua o Puna also built up a new generation of local leadership, ready to apply lessons learned from The Hub to catalyze further 
capacity-building efforts. Even two years later, this experience 
provided a template for other organizations like Vibrant Hawai‘i to 
scale the solution and deliver a COVID-19 global pandemic 
response island wide. This shows that with a strong social network, 
communities are far more capable than pure economics would 
belie, and when given the tools and a chance, they can and will 
direct their own resiliency trajectory. 
Photo Left: Volunteers from Pu‘uhonua o Puna at the hub’s food pantry distributing emergency 
food and supplies to evacuees and residents affected by the 2018 Kīlauea lava eruption. 
Photo Credit: Harry Durgin. 
Photo Right: Fissure 8, officially named Ahu‘ailā‘au, from the 2018 Kīlauea lava eruption. 
Photo Credit: Andrew Richard Hara. 
28  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 29   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
ZERO HUNGER 
Sustainable Development Goal 2 
End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable agriculture 
This UN goal includes targets for ending hunger, achieving 
food security, improving nutrition, and promoting sustainable 
agriculture. 
Overview 
Hawai‘i relies heavily on imported food, due to challenges associated with local food 
production (including the cost of land and labor, lack of available capital, lack of investment, lack of infrastructure, and competition with subsidized and/or less regulated agriculture). Hawai‘i imports approximately 85–90% of its food and is particularly reliant on imports for eggs, milk, and livestock (Office of Planning 2012).  However, the state is located thousands of miles from its imported food sources, which creates vulnerability at the supply-chain level.  The COVID-19 global pandemic increased awareness of the state's heavy reliance on imported food. 
From an economic standpoint, it is less expensive to import food than to grow it locally. 
Moreover, demand for local food is limited as many consumers are not aware of the benefits of 
locally grown food or have difficulty identifying it in markets (Office of Planning 2012). Additionally, many residents of Hawai‘i already struggle to afford food at current prices.  This has been exacerbated due to the pandemic. As of March 2021, a University of Hawai‘i study found that 58% of Hawai‘i families experience food insecurity, and 15% report not having enough food sometime or often in the previous week (Pruitt et al. 2021).  Furthermore, about 370,000 (approximately 26%) of Hawai‘i residents live in food deserts, which means they live more than one mile (if in urban areas) or more than 10 miles (if in rural areas) from grocery 
stores with access to fresh foods, and thus may rely more on processed or fast foods that have less nutritional content (Brace et al. 2020). 
Achieving this SDG will bring multiple benefits. Sustainable local food production can enhance 
the livelihood of local farmers, reduce emissions from transporting food long distances to 
Hawai‘i, and improve the resilience of communities to economic shocks such as climate-related storm events, public health crises, natural disasters, or other supply chain disruptions. 
Strategic capital investment and policies could address and remove some of the barriers to local food production (these recommendations are found on page 98 of this plan). 
30 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 2 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-7 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and 
Policies for the Economy—Agriculture 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205, Part III:  
Important Agricultural Lands 
Act 151, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019 Encourages the purchase and use of locally grown food. 
Assures the availability of suitable farmland with adequate water resources. 
Supports diversifed agriculture. 
Increases opportunities for an agricultural education and livelihood. Increases the use of traditional Hawaiian farming systems and traditional Hawaiian crops. 
Declares that the people of Hawai‘i have a substantial interest in the health and  
sustainability of agriculture as an industry in the state. 
Defnes important agricultural lands and protects those lands from use for  
non-agricultural purposes. 
Identifes a compelling state interest in conserving the state's agricultural land resource  
base and assuring the long-term availability of agricultural lands for agricultural use. 
Requires development of a strategic action plan to achieve doubling food production goal  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  and equivalent consumption. 
Department of Agriculture Strategic Plan 
to Double Local Food Production and Increase Food Exports by 2030 
Good Food for All: Advancing Health Equity through 
Hawai‘i's Food System (2018) 
Offce of Planning's Increased Food 
Security and Food Self-Suffciency Strategy (2012) Will outline strategic actions to achieve t he state's doubling food production target. 
Defines three strategic objectives: 
1) increase demand for and access to locally grown foods, 
2) increase production of locally grown foods, and 
3) provide policy and organizational support to meet food self-suffciency needs. Identifes strategies for improving food security in Hawai‘i. 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge includes an overarching goal to at least double local food production 
by 2030, with 20–30% of food consumed grown locally. The initiative includes fve underlying indicators to support this goal. 
Statewide Agricultural Land Use Baseline (2015) Updates a 1980 survey and provides current information and maps on the locations of Hawai‘i’s farms and ranches. The baseline study is intended to help industry, government and the community in making decisions that affect agriculture land use in the state. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
|| 31 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
According to the USDA, 93% 
of farms in Hawai‘i were 
family-owned in 2017 (USDA 
2017b). Hawai‘i's agricultural 
sector is predominantly small, 
family-owned farms and 
ranches, with over 60% of all 
operations making less than $10,000 in annual sales 
(USDA 2017b). To meet the 
State's target of doubling local 
food production by 2030, much work will be needed to support these families in 
scaling up production. Agriculture is particularly prominent on Hawai‘i Island, 
whose farms make up nearly half of all state agricultural 
sales (USDA 2017a). Thus, when the COVID-19 global pandemic 
left agricultural producers hard-hit, the County of Hawai‘i 
partnered with the Hawai‘i Farm Bureau to create the Big Island 
Rural Agricultural Industries Distribution and Growing Enterprise 
Strategies (BRIDGES) Program: a dual-focus program to address 
the burgeoning food insecurity while supporting the island's 
agricultural industry (Truesdale 2021). The program received 
funding from the County of Hawai‘i, private donors, and federal 
CARES funding to keep producers on the island growing while 
securing food for families impacted by the pandemic (Truesdale 
2021). To provide more assistance to the community, the State 
of Hawai‘i temporarily expanded the “DA BUX” (Double Bucks) 
program—which matches SNAP recipients‘ dollars up to $10 a day when buying local produce—and doubled this match to $25 a 
day and included the purchase of local ground beef and eggs 
(Ulupono Initiative 2020). Although both BRIDGES and the DA 
BUX expansion ended in December 2020, SB 512 was passed during 
the 2021 Legislative Session to provide a permanent revision of the 
DA BUX program which removes the dollar-amount cap and allows 
for local healthy proteins to be added to the program's eligibility list 
(Hawai‘i State Legislature 2021a). 
* The success and popularity of 
these programs garnered awareness to ensure equitable food access, 
as well as highlighted the importance of increasing market demand 
for local agricultural products in order to achieve the State's 
sustainability target to double local food production by 2030. 
Photo Left: Tomato farm on Hawai‘i  Island. Photo Credit: Hawai‘i  Farm Bureau. 
Photo Right: Farm-to-Table produce farm in Waimea, Hawai‘i  Island. 
Photo Credit: State of H awai‘i , Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. 
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
and transmitted to the Governor for consideration. 
32  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GOOD HEALTH 
AND WELL-BEING 
Sustainable Development Goal 3 
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 
UN targets related to this goal include: 
• Reducing the negative impacts of environmental factors on health 
• Combating communicable and non-communicable diseases through 
improved and expanded prevention, and the support of research and development for vaccines and medicines 
• Achieving universal healthcare coverage and access to essential healthcare services 
• Expanding the availability of mental health resources, substance abuse treatment, and sexual and reproductive healthcare services 
Overview 
Hawai‘i is often considered one of the healthiest states in the nation, in part due to high public 
health funding, air quality, and low prevalence of obesity relative to the rest of the United States.  
In addition, Hawai‘i's Prepaid Health Care Act of 1974 increased access to affordable, quality healthcare.  Less than 4% of Hawai‘i's residents lack health insurance.  However, this rate increases for Native Hawaiians to about 15% (Creamer 2019a).  Upwards of 25% of non-Hawaiian Pacific Islanders were without health insurance as of 2013 (DOH 2020).  A recent federal law was passed through the COVID-19 Economic Relief legislation signed in 2020, which reinstated that citizens of 
the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau are entitled to federal Medicaid coverage, throughout the U.S., and especially in Hawai‘i (Public Law 116-260).  This expanded community access to healthcare services during the COVID-19 pandemic, and assisted Hawai‘i-based community healthcare providers to deliver additional treatment to these vulnerable 
communities. 
Other health disparities have been documented across socioeconomic groups in Hawai‘i.  The 
federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that residents of Hawai‘i living in high-income zip codes have average lifespans about 10 years longer than those living in low-income zip codes (DOH  2020). 
Widespread health challenges remain, particularly the high rates of diabetes. About half of Hawai‘i's residents are at risk of developing diabetes or currently have it (DOH 2020).  This is tied in part to the issues described under SDG 2 above: food security is an issue for 58% of Hawai‘i residents (Pruitt et al. 2021). Additionally, residents who receive food assistance through Hawai‘i's emergency food relief system often receive donated foods that have high levels of fat and sugar and poor nutritional quality, impacting residents who receive food assistance (Creamer 2019a). 
Other health challenges include lack of access to mental health services, rising e-cigarette use by 
youth, public health impacts from climate change (such as heavy rain, flooding, sea level rise, and hurricanes), and poor diet and exercise trends.  There is also a dearth of detox facilities to help treat those with drug- and alcohol-related disorders (DOH 2020). Notably, Hawai‘i was ranked among the 10 worst states in the United Health Foundation 2018 Report in two categories: excessive drinking and Tdap (Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis) immunizations (Creamer 2019b). 
34 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 3 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-20 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-Cultural Advancement—Health 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 321— 
Department of Health Includes provisions for improving access to physical and mental health treatment, including substance abuse, preventing contamination by pesticides and hazardous substances, and reducing health disparities among disproportionately affected demographics. 
Directs the development of environmental goals and objectives to ensure that air quality, 
land, coastal waters, inland waters, and groundwater are protected.  (§321-1.1: Development of environmental goals and objectives) 
Organizes environmental protection programs to improve the coordination of 
environmental planning and oversight. (§321- 1.1: Development of environmental goals 
and objectives) 
Outlines the powers, duties, and functions of the Department of Health relating to 
preventative medicine (§321-31), dental health needs (§321-62), nutrition training and education (§321-81), children's mental health services (§321-171), substance abuse prevention, rehabilitation, treatment, education, and research (§321-193), and maternal and child health (§321-321), among other areas. 
State Health Improvement Plan, Healthy Hawai‘i 2020: A Community Health Plan 
(2020) 
2016-2020 Tobacco Use Prevention and 
Control in Hawai‘i: Five-Year Strategic Plan (2016) 
Hawai‘i Coordinated Chronic Disease 
Framework Plan (2014) 
Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Plan 
(2013) Includes goals, strategies, and actions that address health and well-being, disease prevention, healthy lifestyles, healthy environment, and physical and mental healthcare. 
Identifies community health needs of Hawai‘i communities with special attention paid to 
health disparities and the needs of vulnerable populations. 
Identifies an integrated approach and is meant to be used as a guide to enable coordination of multiple programs across common risk factors, interventions, and strategies. 
Identifies priority objectives to integrate physical activity and nutrition into the daily lives of the people of Hawai‘i. Identifies the priority populations, people using tobacco at the highest rate in Hawai‘i, and 
measurable objectives to achieve by 2020. 
Outlines strategies, recommended community activities and targeted outputs, and key 
outcome indicators to measure progress towards achieving health equity. 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES    
 
 
  Partnerships with the State and community-based health care providers have contributed 
to the delivery of a broad range of services at schools including co-located health 
centers, skilled nursing, immunization clinics, and screening events to address student 
health needs. Primary prevention strategies to develop student skills, knowledge, and 
positive health behaviors are reinforced by the Wellness Guidelines and include nutritious 
school meal programs, comprehensive health education, and standards-based physical 
education programs (DOE 2021). Educational attainment has also been shown to 
improve public health and health equity. 
Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030 (2020) Serves as a ten year strategic plan to prevent and reduce the burden of chronic disease in 
Hawai‘i and reinforces the following chronic disease prevention and management strategic plans for the state: Hawai‘i Asthma Plan 2030,  Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Diabetes Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Heart Disease and Stroke Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Plan 2030, and the Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 2030. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
|| 35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 -
-SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
There are 322.6 practicing 
doctors in Hawai‘i for every 100,000 people 
(HRSA 2020). Although Hawai‘i is a top-ranked state in this regard, the fact remains that healthcare providers are distributed unevenly across the state and not everyone can aford healthcare (HRSA 2020, 
KFF 2019). Increasing 
physical and fnancial 
access to healthcare for all residents will need to be a continued priority to ensure a sustainable Hawai‘i. 
As the island's only Federally Qualifed Health 
Center, Lāna‘i Community Health Center serves as a cornerstone of continued efforts to provide healthcare 
services to Lāna‘i's residents (HRSA 2021). Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center's goal is to provide “culturally 
sensitive, holistic, patient-centered” care, ofering services like language translation, behavioral health, obstetrics, internet 
access, and assistance in applying for public benefits. As a 
Federally Qualifed Health Center, these services are available 
for everyone regardless of their ability to pay for medical care. 
In a place with very limited medical facilities—the island only has one ambulance and four beds in its emergency room at Lāna‘i Community Hospital—and considering that over 
three-ffths of Lāna‘i Community Health Center's patients 
are low-income, having afordable access to primary and specialty health services and assistance in navigating the healthcare system is paramount for community members (Wu 2020, Meyers 2020, Lāna‘i Community Health Center 2020). 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center further expands its reach 
to patients through its telehealth program, for which it has been nationally recognized, and providing education to the community on important wellness topics in an approachable, culturally sensitive way (Lāna‘i Community Health Center 
2020, HIMSS 2018). During the COVID-19 global pandemic, 
coordinating and managing patient care became even more 
imperative to avoid overwhelming Lāna‘i's medical system. Lāna‘i Community Health Center worked together with the 
other Lāna‘i medical agencies to provide COVID 19 testing and 
vaccine distribution, assisted with contact tracing challenges, and provided community education and translated outreach 
materials to increase vaccine buy-in (Grossman 2021).  Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center was also designated to receive 
COVID 19 vaccine doses to increase access for underserved 
populations, and by June 2021, Lāna‘i Community Health Center and other providers were able to provide COVID-19 
vaccinations to nearly 70% of the island's population (KITV 
2021, Cerizo 2021, U.S. Census Bureau 2011). Lāna‘i's vaccine 
campaign demonstrated the impact of targeted resources 
delivered through trusted, local organizations, and although 
health inequalities still persist for Lāna‘i's residents, Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center remains committed to bringing 
care to and advocating for the needs of its patients in order to reduce those disparities. 
Photo Left: Volunteers at Lāna‘i community COVID-19 vaccine distribution event. 
Photo Credit: Lāna‘i Community Health Center. 
Photo Right: Lāna‘i Community Health Center, Lāna‘i Island. Photo Credit: Lāna‘i Community Health Center. 
36  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 37  
QUALITY EDUCATION 
Sustainable Development Goal 4 
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities for all 
This UN goal promotes widespread “inclusive and equitable” 
education and educational opportunities for all ages and involves targets that address: 
• Achieving widespread literacy and numeracy 
• Ensuring the equal access of all genders, abilities, and racial and ethnic backgrounds to quality pre-primary, primary, secondary, and tertiary education including technical school, vocational training, and university 
• Educating all learners with the knowledge and skills necessary to promote sustainable development 
• Improving access to quality education by upgrading learning facilities to be inclusive to all, increasing the number of qualifed teachers, and expanding the number of scholarships available to developing countries 
Overview 
Measures of educational quality and performance from Hawai‘i's Every Student Succeeds A ct 
(ESSA) report show disparities between racial and socioeconomic subgroups of students, 
with Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, disabled, economically disadvantaged, English l earner, 
homeless, and students in foster care showing lower proficiencies in language arts, mathematics, and science; lower graduation rates; lower college-going rates; and higher chronic absenteeism rates than the average “all students” group or their white counterparts 
(DOE 2020b). However, National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) scores and other measures of academic success (e.g., the number of Advanced Placement exam takers, percent of 12th graders completing a Career and Technical Education program of study, etc.) 
have shown improvement in recent years (2016–2019) (DOE 2020a). 
To continue improvement, major focuses for this goal are on improving teacher recruitment 
and retention and increasing revenue sources for secondary education. 
The challenge of providing both remote and in-person K-12 instruction when the COVID-19 
global pandemic struck Hawai‘i highlighted the increased need for broadband connectivity and d igital equity throughout the state. 
38 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 4 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-21 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-Cultural Advancement—Education 
The University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
The University of Hawai‘i Executive Policy 
4.202: System Sustainability 
State of Hawai‘i Board of Education – K-12 
Literacy Policy 102-2 
State of Hawai‘i Board of Education-
Sustainability Policy 301-9 Outlines educational priorities within the state, including accessible educational opportunities. 
Includes targets to: 
Increase the educational capital of the state by increasing the participation and completion 
of students, particularly Native Hawaiians, low-income students and those from underserved regions and populations and preparing them for success in the workforce and their communities. 
Increase the percentage of working age adults with two-or four- year degrees to 55% by 
2025. 
Requires the university system to develop goals, metrics, and plans that address a 
comprehensive sustainability strategy in operations, curriculum, research and scholarship, campus and community engagement, and cultural connections. 
Defines the literacy standards all students must meet to be deemed literate. 
Dictates that schools must provide a “balanced and comprehensive reading and writing 
program.” 
Mandates schools have an effective early reading and writing program, and that students 
identified by the department as not proficient receive necessary assistance and support. 
Mandates the department to establish regulations and guidelines that include 
incorporating the importance of sustainability and environmental stewardship at the classroom level. 
Hawai‘i State Literacy Plan: 2020 (2020) 
Hawai‘i State Department of Education and 
Board of Education Strategic Plan: 2017– 2020 (2016) 
Hawai‘i Green Workforce: A Baseline 
Assessment (2010) Developed in partnership with state, university system, and community organizations. 
Provides comprehensive guidance and best practices for enhancing literacy across 
the state. 
Provides a framework for assessing green jobs in the private sector. 
Defines green jobs as those that engage in at least one of five core green areas: (1)  
 
  Generate clean, renewable, sustainable energy; (2) Reduce pollution and waste, 
conserve natural resources, recycle; (3) Energy efficiency; (4) Education, training and support of a green workforce; and (5) Natural, environmentally-friendly 
production. Outlines specific goals, objectives, and actions to pursue educational goals in the state 
through 2020, including: 
Increase Hawai‘i's graduation rate to 90% by 2025, which would make the state's on-time 
graduation rate one of the highest in the nation. 
Ensure 55% of working age adults (25–64 years old) have a two- or four-year college 
degree by the year 2025. This is supported by the Hawai‘i P-20 Partnerships for Education. 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge includes multiple education-related goals to be achieved by 2030. 
These include ensuring access to inclusive, quality education for all people, providing 
learner-driven educational experiences that ensure all learners acquire the knowledge and 
skills needed to thrive and build a sustainable future; providing ‘¯aina-based education and stewardship opportunities that foster connection to land, ‘ohana, and communities; and creating pathways for local-global servant leadership. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Department of Labor and Industrial Relations developed the Hawai‘i 
Green Jobs Initiative and accompanying portal, which provides services for job seekers and employers as well as access to green training programs (DLIR 2021). 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 39 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -
—SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
From 2013 to 2017, 48.4% of 
Hawai‘i-born residents who 
moved out-of-state did so for job-related reasons (DBEDT 
2021a). This phenomenon, 
known as “brain drain,” is 
especially prevalent in younger residents, and while the causes 
of outmigration are varied, 
evidence suggests that the types and availability of jobs outside of Hawai‘i are a prime factor (DBEDT 2021a). 
Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike (in 
working one learns) is the ‘Ōlelo 
No‘eau for the current da y 
educational term describing “experiential learning.”  Based in Hāna, Maui, Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike is also a nonproft providing youth vocational training through construction and agriculture apprenticeship programs and a lo‘i restoration and ku‘i kalo program. Community needs and the interests of apprentices guide the 
specific projects within each program. Past undertakings 
include constructing “age-in-place” modifcations to kūpuna 
homes, restoring once productive agricultural landscapes for community wellbeing and sustenance, and ongoing revitalization of cultural and place-based practices, including 
‘ōlelo Hawai‘i and Hāna regionalisms. Even after the COVID-19 
global pandemic shut down in-person training, Ma Ka Hana 
Ka ‘Ike adapted, and apprentices directed their own at-home 
projects (with virtual support from organization staff ) to 
take ownership of their role in their families' well-being. 
Furthermore, even though some efects of the pandemic were 
tempered by Hāna's robust subsistence economy and tight knit culture, unmet needs remained and Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike worked with partners to provide for them, including through food distribution and a Certified Nursing Assistant training 
program. In sum, the organization's focus is on fostering 
service, connection to community, and self-esteem in 
apprentices through community capacity-building, while giving them marketable skills and introduction to career pathways for 
success. In a tourism-heavy economy, this exposure to other job 
felds and linking such jobs to community needs—empowers 
apprentices to direct their own futures and that of their home. Many apprentices remain in or return to Hāna after fnishing their apprenticeships, with several becoming apprentice 
trainers themselves and other leaders in the community. 
Hence, Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike demonstrates the success of 
investing in community to sustain community, and the strength of a community's ties to one another is key to its resiliency. 
Photo Left: Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike's three core programs include Mālama Hāloa, Mahele Farm, and its foundational Building Program; each aptly equipped to provide vocational training and 
educational opportunities to Hāna youth. Photo Credit: Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike. 
Photo Right: Hāna Town and Hāna Bay of the island of Maui. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. 
40  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 41  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
GENDER EQUALITY 
Sustainable Development Goal 5 
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 
UN targets to achieve gender equality and empower women include: 
• Ending all forms of discrimination and violence against women everywhere in both public and private spheres 
• Supporting women's meaningful participation in all levels of decision-making in political, economic, and public life 
• Ensuring equal access for women to property ownership, fnancial services, economic resources, and technological resources to promote empowerment of women 
• Certifying universal access to sexual and reproductive healthcare and reproductive rights as agreed to in accordance with the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development and the Beijing Platform for action 
Overview 
Gender equality in Hawai‘i has advanced in recent years. Hawai‘i has the second-highest 
gender earnings ratio out of all states and ranks eighth in the United States for the number 
of women elected to office (AAUW 2020).  While better than the national average, women in 
Hawai‘i make about 83 cents for every dollar earned by men and about 9% of women in Hawai‘i live in poverty (NWLC 2021). 
Native Hawaiian women are particularly vulnerable to inequalities.  They have the highest 
rates of infant mortality in Hawai‘i, high rates of post-partum depression, high health risks such as obesity and cancer, and lower levels of business ownership compared with other demographics (OHA 2018).  Further, pay equity remains an issue: Native Hawaiian women earn 70 cents for every dollar a man makes and 79 cents for every dollar a Native Hawaiian man makes (Commission on the Status of Women 2020). 
The Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women notes in Hawai‘i's first report on 
sex trafficking survivors that sex trafficking is a problem of significant concern.  Survivors of sex trafficking may be disproportionately Native Hawaiian women and girls due to land dispossession, exposure to sexual violence, cultural dislocation, intergenerational trauma, and 
ongoing inequities (ASU 2019). 
Women's wellbeing and livelihoods in Hawai‘i were particularly at risk during the COVID-19 
global pandemic.  Women have been disproportionately impacted during the pandemic as 
increased demands for caregiving, childcare, and household services have fallen more on the shoulders of women. Recent national statistics report women represented 60% of workers 
that were laid off due to the pandemic.  Women in Hawai‘i are at the forefront of impacted industries such as tourism and other service industries, which indicates the national 
unemployment trends by gender are likely to apply in Hawai‘i.  The global pandemic has 
exacerbated these existing stressors on women.  Additionally, women have experienced increased incidence of domestic violence, sex trafficking, sexual harassment, coercion by 
landlords, and interruptions to health services (Commission on the Status of Women 2020). 
42 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 5 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 
(b) (16): Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives a nd
Policies for the Economy—In General 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-24: Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal Well-Being 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil Rights Commission 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 378: Employment Practices Sets goal to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of Hawai‘i's population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures. 
Sets objective to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of every 
individual and assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and other public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in society. 
Prevents discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, age, sex, including gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or disability in employment, housing, public accommodations, or access to services receiving state financial assistance. 
Prevents discriminatory practices, including on the basis of sex. 
A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for 
COVID-19 (2020) 
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Annual 
Reports (2020) 
Haumea: Transforming the Health of Native 
Hawaiian Women and Empowering W
āhine 
Well-Being (2019) Lays out a framework to re-examine the status quo to value unpaid work and 
address other key issues for gender equality in Hawai‘i. 
Examines history and strategies for progress for Native Hawaiian women on the 
basis of mental and emotional wellness, physical health, motherhood, partner violence and incarceration, economic well-being, and leadership and civic 
engagement. Annual report on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong state civil rights laws by rebuilding 
capacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for state civil rights law enforcement. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   43 
 
 
  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 489: Discrimination in Outlaws disciminatory actions that deny, or attempt to deny, a person full and equal 
Public Accommodations enjoyment of publicly available goods, resources, and accomodations. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 515: Discrimination in Identifies and outlaws discriminatory practices related to real estate transactions. 
Real Property Transactions  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 -
-SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
A March 2021 University 
of Hawai‘i study found that during the COVID 19 global pandemic, 58% of Hawai‘i families with children were food insecure, with 15% reporting that they did not have enough food in the past week.  This study also identifed that food insecurity impacts were more signifcant for low-income families, and households in rural areas. The study further found that 76% of families who identifed as food insecure lost employment due to the COVID 19 global pandemic. Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center is one of 
several organizations tackling food insecurity in O‘ahu. 
With their “food is medicine” philosophy, Wai‘anae Coast 
Comprehensive Health Center sought to increase Wai‘anae Coast communities’ access to nutritious foods for all budgets through initiatives such as the “Double Bucks” Mākeke Farmers Market program for EBT/SNAP recipients, local produce prescriptions for patients with nutrition-related chronic diseases, and Keiki Food Pantries.  Their work fills a critical need: even prior to the COVID-19 
global pandemic, food insecurity was a significant concern for the 
Wai‘anae Coast, and the health center distributed 250,000 pounds of food in 2019.  However, due to impacts from the COVID-19 global pandemic, 2,400,000 pounds of food were distributed in March-December 2020 alone—nearly a tenfold increase.  This increased community need caused the Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center to include a larger warehouse facility to provide  additional 
community assistance and provide food preservation and storage capabilities.  This increased capacity was made possible due to 
support from private donors such as Honu‘apo and No 
Kid Hungry, federal CARES funding, and long-standing partnerships with local farmers, the Hawai‘i Foodbank, and the Hawai‘i Food Service Alliance.  To further address community food insecurity and resiliency challenges, Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center plans to establish an emergency food storage facility on the Wai‘anae Coast, although these plans were paused to focus on the demands brought on by the COVID-19 global pandemic. 
Photo Left: Community food distribution to families in need of food assistance during the 
COVID-19 global pandemic. Photo Credit: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
Photo Right: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
Photo Credit: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
44  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 45  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLEAN WATER 
AND SANITATION 
Sustainable Development Goal 6 
Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and 
sanitation for all 
This UN goal is to ensure the availability and sustainable 
management of water and sanitation for all and includes targets that address the following: 
• Achieving universal continuous access to safe drinking water and 
sanitation by promoting water-use efciency and sustainable water withdrawals 
• Integrating smart water resource management at all levels 
• Increasing water use efciency across sectors 
Overview 
The State of Hawai‘i's Commission on Water Resources Management and the Department of 
Health's Clean Water Branch, Safe Drinking Water Branch, and Wastewater Branch work to protect surface and ground water quality in Hawai‘i.  Ground water is the primary source of Hawai‘i residents' drinking water. The quality of surface water protects and maintains natural e cosystems for shellfish, fish, and other wildlife, and allows for recreational activities 
near w ater sources, particularly important for the tourism industry in Hawai‘i.  Surface water 
also p rovides about 5% of Hawai‘i's drinking water supply.  In 2018, 100% of Hawai‘i's 
residents and v isitors were served drinking water that fell below all maximum contaminant 
levels, and the c ompliance rates consistently exceed 95% (DOH 2019b). 
The Wastewater Branch is working toward the upgrade and elimination of cesspools. Cesspools r elease untreated domestic wastewater, nitrogen, and phosphorus, which can 
cause health i ssues, negative impacts to water quality, and harm to aquatic ecosystems such 
as coral reefs.  As of 2019, there were approximately over 88,000 cesspools that pose a risk to Hawai‘i's water r esources (DOH 2019b). 
In Hawai‘i, clean water concerns also relate to the exercise of traditional and customary Native Hawaiian practices.  Traditional and customary practices that depend on adequate 
flow (of both surface and ground waters) range from drinking water from natural sources, the 
gathering of stream species (like ‘o‘opu, ‘ōpae, and hı̄hı̄wai), practicing aquaculture in natural 
and modified pools and fishponds (loko i‘a), irrigation of taro (kalo) in flooded fields and 
other crops, and the use of water in ceremonial practices.  These depend on healthy water 
(e.g., sufficient volume, free from contaminants, and suitable temperature). 
46 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 6 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-15: Objectives and 
Policies for Facility Systems—Solid and Liquid Wastes 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-16 of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Facility Systems—Water 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §174C-31(g)(6): Hawai‘i Water Plan Objectives 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342D-72: Cesspools; Mandatory Upgrade, Conversion, or Connection 
Act 169, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016: Relating to Water Audits 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 174: State  
Water Code Describes wastewater treatment requirements for the state. 
Covers sustainable water management, including wastewater/runoff reuse, water for 
agricultural use, and water conservation. 
Requires that 100% of State and County facilities recycle water by 2045, with the exception 
of potable and drinking water. 
Requires the conversion of all cesspools by 2050. 
Requires standardized annual water audits of public water systems, and the Commission 
of Water Resource Management shall provide technical assistance. 
Outlines a program of comprehensive water resources planning to address the problems of 
supply and conservation of water for purposes such as domestic uses, aquaculture uses, irrigation and other agricultural uses, power development, and commercial and industrial uses, with adequate provisions for the protection of traditional and customary Hawaiian rights, and the protection of fish and wildlife, ecological balance, and scenic beauty. 
Protects reservations of water for current and foreseeable development and use of water 
by DHHL, consistent with Section 221 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act. Current and foreseeable uses are part of the reservation and are required to have the full protections of being a Public Trust use of water. (HRS §174C-101(a)). 
All Water Use Permits issued in Water Management Areas are subject to the rights of the 
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL) as provided in section 221 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act (§174C-49(a)(7)). 
STRATEGIC PLANS  
 
  Department of Health (DOH) State Health Improvement Plan, Healthy Hawai‘i 2020: A Community Health Plan. Environmental Health (2020) State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource 
Management (CWRM) Hawai‘i Water Plan (2021) 
CWRM Water Resource Protection Plan Update 
(2019) 
DOH Water Quality Plan (2019) State Water Projects Plan (2020) 
HDOA Agricultural Water Use and Development 
Plan (2019) 
The Rain Follows the Forest (2011) Hawa i‘i Water Conservation Plan (2013) Includes a goal to increase the percent of community water systems that provide drinking 
water that meets all applicable health-based drinking water standards to 99%. 
Includes goals to increase the percentage of wastewater treatment plants in full compliance 
to 95% and increase the percentage of water reuse to 20%. 
The objective of this plan is to protect and sustain ground and surface water resources, 
watersheds, and natural stream environments stat ewide. Such protection requires a 
comprehensive study of occurrence, sustainability, conservation, augmentation, and 
other resource management measures. 
Outlines the regulations, standards, and resource management policies that define 
the quality to be maintained in ground- and surface-water resources. Provides a framework for planning and implementation  of water development programs to 
meet projected demands for State projects over a 20-year planning horizon. 
Provides a long-range management plan that assesses state and private 
agricultural water use, supply and irrigation water systems. The plan is intended to 
be a master irrigation inventory plan which identifies system rehabilitation needs 
and prioritizes system repair. 
Identifies priority watersheds and outlines on-the-gr ound actions and projects 
required to protect and sustain Hawai‘i’ s critical water sources. Identifies and implements water use and delivery efficiency measures to 
conserve the fresh water resources of the state. Consists of five discrete plans that each serve as guidance for the commission. 
DOH Water Reuse Task Force Report (2019) Identifies barriers and solutions to expanding water reuse in the state of Hawai‘i. 
County Water Use and Development Plans These plans are prepared by each county to inventory all projected water demands 
within the county and ensure that the future water needs of the county are met. These county plans should set forth the allocation of water to land use in that county and maintain consistency with county zoning and land use policies. The plans serve to inform future land use planning and provide guidance to the Commission for decision-making on water allocations and water reservation requests. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
|| 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
It's estimated Hawai‘i 
will need 529 million 
gallons of fresh water a 
day from its aquifers in 
2030 (Hawai‘i Community 
Foundation 2015). Fresh 
water is a critical resource 
on an island, something Kānaka Maoli have long known and respected in their traditional laws, community organization, 
and religious beliefs. To 
ensure the sustainability 
of our island communities, similar care must be taken to protect freshwater sources, particularly as water security is being challenged by a growing population, aging water infrastructure, pollution, invasive species, and climate change. As the largest groundwater user on O‘ahu, the Honolulu 
Board of Water Supply is aware of this kuleana to conserve 
water supplies (Board of Water Supply 2016). Their 2016 
Water Master Plan is one of several BWS initiatives to ensure they 
can provide water sustainably. They are also part of the Hawai‘i 
Fresh Water Initiative, a collaboration of government, academic, 
nonprofit, and private sector organizations to address water 
security. Based on the Hawai‘i Fresh Water Initiative's findings in 
their 2016 Blueprint for Action, the Honolulu Board of Water Supply 
aligned their Water Master Plan priorities with the Hawai‘i Fresh 
Water Initiative's recommended focus areas: water conservation, 
aquifer recharge, and wastewater reuse. Examples of this in the 
Water Master Plan include a proactive leak detection team to reduce 
water loss, continued commitment to eight watershed partnerships 
(to protect water from mauka to makai), and plans to expand the 
capacity of the Honouliuli Wastewater Recycling Facility to at least 
16 million gallons a day. The Honolulu Board of Water Supply 
also utilizes a stakeholder advisory group for community feedback 
and representation. This group's input was responsible for the 
inclusion of a dedicated water supply sustainability section in 
the plan. Together, this comprehensive planning and community 
involvement furthers to provide safe water for O‘ahu's residents. 
Photo Left: Recycled water is delivered to users through a system of pipes separate from the drinking water distribution 
system. It is safe for human contact, but it is not intended for drinking.  All pipes and fixtures using recycled water are easily 
identifiable by their distinctive purple color. Photo Credit: City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply. 
Photo Right: A watershed is a diverse and highly organized ecosystem which specializes in the capturing of rain and 
atmospheric moisture from the air and sky.  They are usually located in high mountains or valleys, which then divert the 
water into rivers and streams. Watersheds are composed of several layers of dense vegetation. O‘ahu's watershed can also 
be described as a Hawaiian rain forest, which captures and saves large amounts of water.  
Photo Credit: City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply. 
48  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 49  
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
  
 
AFFORDABLE AND 
CLEAN ENERGY 
Sustainable Development Goal 7 
Ensure access to afordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy 
for all 
The objective of this UN goal is to ensure universal access to 
“reliable, sustainable and modern energy services .” Targets to achieve 
this goal include: 
• Promoting investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy 
technology, with particular emphasis on least developed countries 
• Improving global energy efciency 
• Increasing the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix 
Overview 
Ensuring affordable, reliable, clean, renewable, and sustainable energy is critical, due to Hawai‘i's 
isolated location and vulnerability to fluctuating energy prices and supply disruptions.  Hawai‘i d epends 
more on imported petroleum for its energy needs than any other state and has the highest a verage 
retail price of electricity in the nation given the state's lack of domestic oil, natural gas, or c oal 
resources. In 2018, petroleum accounted for roughly 84% of Hawai‘i's energy consumption (see Figure 
1), compared to about 1% for the United States as a whole.  In Hawai‘i, the air transportation s ector 
accounts for the highest percentage of petroleum use, largely due to the tourism industry a nd the 
military, followed by ground transportation.  In 2021, HB 683* passed the Hawai‘i State L egislature to 
create a sustainable aviation fuel program within the Hawai‘i Technology Development C orporation to 
provide matching grants to Hawai‘i small business developing products related to s ustainable aviation 
fuel or greenhouse gas reduction from commercial aviation operations. 
The energy sector is the largest source of e missions 
in Hawai‘i, accounting for 87% of t otal emissions. 
Figure 1: Hawai‘i Energy Consumption by Source in 2018Emissions from transportation a ccounted for the 
largest share of energy sector e missions in 2016. 
Emissions from stationary energy c ombustion are the Renewable 
Energysecond largest source of energy s ector emissions, 
10.6%driven largely by emissions from e lectric power 
plants, petroleum refineries, and industry. 
While decarbonizing the electricity sector will g reatly 
reduce Hawai‘i's dependence on imported o il, 
electrification of the transportation sector 
and investments in alternative vehicle fuels are required for a complete shift away from fossil fuels 
Source: HSEO (2020) Notes: Renewables include for energy and transportation. Ensuring local, biomass, hydroelectric power, and other renewable 
renewable sources of energy will not only lower sources such as solar and wind. Petroleum includes 
jet fuel, residual fuel, distillate fuel oil, HGL, and energy costs for end-users in all sectors of the other petroleum sources. 
economy, but also increase Hawai‘i's long-term 
energy security. 
In regard to energy efficiency in buildings, Hawai‘i scored 16th in state efficiency and 7th in net 
incremental electricity savings nationwide on the 2019 State Energy Efficiency Scorecard published by 
the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. The State passed minimum efficiency standards that help residents in Hawai‘i save money on utility bills.  However, there is still room to improve in 
developing policies for state government initiatives, transportation, low-income programs, energy 
efficiency program funding and spending, and codes and standards. 
50 *At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
and transmitted to the Governor for consideration. Petroleum 
84.4% Coal 
4.9% 
Natural 
Gas 
.1% VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge includes a goal to achieve 70% clean energy, with 40% from 
renewable sources and 30% from efficiency, with a view towards 100% renewable energy 
by 2045. 
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a commitment to achieve 100% renewable 
electricity by 2045. 
Details the program to manage the state's transition to a renewable hydrogen 
economy, including implementation plans. Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy—Potential Growth and Innovative Activities 
Hawai‘i Water Energy Nexus Report (2017) Describes the relationship between water and energy use in Hawai‘i, and encourages the 
development and implementation of water conservation programs protecting Hawai‘i’ s fresh 
water resources, while considering the implications of energy uses in the water and wastewater industries. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   51 
 
         
        
  
  Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 7 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-18 of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Facility Systems—Energy Details objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth. 
Policies to achieve these objectives include p romoting renewable energy development and 
accelerating the development of new energy-related industries based on wind, solar, 
ocean a nd underground resources. 
Ensures the short- and long-term provision of adequate, reasonably priced, dependable 
energy services to accommodate demand. 
Includes policies to achieve the objectives of an energy system that is secure, dependable, 
affordable, and contributes to the reduction of GHG emissions from energy supply. 
Policies include supporting the development of renewable energy sources, adopting 
energy-efficient practices, and promoting alternative fuels.   
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §196-9: Energy Efficiency and Requires state agencies incorporate and implement energy-efficiency measures, 
Environmental Standards for State Facilities, Motor and e nergy e fficient equipment in state facilities. 
Vehicles, and Transportation Fuel 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-10: Hawai‘i Renewable Hydrogen Program 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-5: Zero Emissions Sets a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and GHGs than emitted within 
Clean Economy the state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-92: Renewable Achieve a 100% renewable portfolio standard (RPS) b y 2045 and a 40% RPS by 2030. 
Portfolio Standards 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-96: Energy Requires the Public Utilities Commission to establish energy-efficient portfolio standards, 
Efficiency Portfolio Standards including a 30% reduction in energy use by 2030 through energy efficiency. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §302A-1510(a): Achieve net-zero energy use in all public scho ol facilities by 2035. 
Sustainable Schools Initiative 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §304A-119: UH Net-Zero Achieve net-zero energy use at all University of Hawai‘i campuses by 2035. 
Energy Ensure the short-and-long-term provision of adequate, reasonably priced, dependable energy s ervices to accommodate demand. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71: Greenhouse Limited statewide GHG emissions to be equal to or below 1990 levels by 
Gas Emissions Limits 2020, excluding emissions from airplanes. 
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i State Energy Office's Annual Identifies priority objectives and policies relating to clean energy, energy resilience, 
Report (2020) renewable energy deployment, energy efficiency, clean transportation, stakeholder and community education, outreach, and engagement, and data analytics. 
Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Plan (2016) Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic sectors, including energy. 
Sets a goal that Hawai‘i is less dependent on imported carbon-based energy with shared 
access to renewable energy benefits and is on track to meet the state's goal of 100% clean energy by 2045. 
Objectives include updating the electrical grid infrastructure, improving awareness and 
understanding of energy resources, and expanding energy efficiency and 
sustainability practices. 
The Department of Hawaiian Home Land's Supports Native Hawaiians and the broader community in working together to lead Hawai‘i's 
Ho‘omaluā Energy Policy (2011) effort to achieve energy self-sufficiency and sustainability.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
In 2015, Hawai‘i became 
the frst state in the country to make the commitment to achieve a 100% electricity renewable portfolio 
standard by 2045. 
Concurrently, the State of 
Hawai‘i established a similar energy goal for the University of Hawai‘i System 
to achieve net-zero energy 
use by 2035, meaning the 
university system would produce as much renewable energy as it consumes across 
its 10 campuses (Hawai‘i 
Revised Statutes §304A-119). 
Hawai‘i's own Leeward 
Community College became one of the frst 
net zero campuses in 
the United States.  In 
July 2020, the campus 
generated 97% of energy 
through on-site photovoltaic 
systems, including solar shade canopies, rooftop 
arrays, and distributed 
energy storage (UH News 
2020a). By January 2021, 
the University of Hawai‘i 
Maui College also became 
one the first campuses in 
the nation to generate 100% 
of its energy from on-site 
solar photovoltaic systems 
coupled with battery storage 
(UH News 2021). 
The State of Hawai‘i is committed to lead and transform Hawai‘i's energy 
use. In addition to these energy commitments, the State also enacted 
energy efficiency portfolio standards, which require that 4,300 gigawatt 
hours (GWh) of electricity use be reduced statewide by 2030 (Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-96). 
The Hawai‘i State Energy Office tracks and reports on electricity 
purchased by state agencies as part of the “Lead By Example” initiative. 
Between 2005 and 2019, Hawai‘i State agencies reduced their 
electricity use by  17.5%.  This was made possible in part through the 
government's performance contracting program. Since the performance 
contracting program was introduced in 1996, State and County 
government agencies saved an estimated $1.1 billion in energy costs 
over the life of the contracts. The State of Hawai‘i's success garnered 
national recognition by achieving the Race to the Top Award for 8 
consecutive years  between 2012 and 2019. This national accolade recognizes the state with the highest per capita investment in performance contracting projects, awarded by the Energy Services Coalition. 
As of June 2020, all of Hawai‘i's counties have successfully adopted the 
2015 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) with Hawai‘i 
amendments (as amended) (HSEO 2020). The estimated net energy 
savings from this statewide adoption is 1,083,590 MWh in 2029 (year 10); 
1,991,059 MWh in 2032; and 4,702,738 MWh in 2038 (year 20). These estimated energy savings are greater for commercial buildings, which are 
expected to save about 33%. The energy savings estimates will also rise 
as a result of additional amendments adopted by the counties (DBEDT 
2016).  
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) underscores 
that a “rapid and far-reaching” sustainable transition in land, energy, buildings, transport, and cities is needed to meet global carbon reduction 
goals to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Buildings account for almost 40% 
of global energy-related CO2 and will play a major role in a sustainable 
transformation (IPCC 2018).  To meet global decarbonization goals within the buildings sector, the International Energy Agency recommends that almost all existing buildings undergo a single in-depth retrofit by 2050 and new construction meet stringent efficiency standards.  Building energy codes covering new and existing buildings are the fundamental tool to drive this change (IEA 2021). 
It is important to recognize the role of the built environment, especially 
since buildings are a key component in the fabric of cities and the building and construction sector provides opportunities to contribute to 
achieving the UN SDGs. Green buildings play an important role in the 
sustainable development of cities, communities, and neighborhoods by 
reducing energy and waste consumption; conserving water; prioritizing the use of safer materials; and lowering the exposure to toxins.  Applying these sustainable development principles locally in the design, construction, retrofitting, and operation in Hawai‘i's buildings will help transform local energy use, reduce GHG emissions, adapt to climate change, and create sustainable and thriving communities. 
Photo Left: Leeward Community College Net Zero Energy Campus on the island of O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: University of Hawai‘i. 
Photo Right: University of Hawai‘i-Maui College Net Zero Energy Campus on the island of Maui. 
Photo Credit: University of Hawai‘i. 
52  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 53  
 
DECENT WORK AND 
ECONOMIC GROWTH 
Sustainable Development Goal 8 
Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth, 
Full and productive employment, Decent work for all 
Targets related to the UN Decent Work and Economic Growth goal 
include: 
• Sustaining economic growth and economic productivity through 
innovation, diversifcation, and increased access to fnancial 
institutions, particularly in developing countries 
• Achieving “full and productive” employment in safe and secure 
working environments across all genders, abilities, and ages 
• Eradicating forced labor in all forms, including human trafcking and child labor 
Overview 
Key economic sectors for Hawai‘i include tourism, defense, creative economy, and agriculture. 
Based on gross domestic product (GDP), the top five industries in Hawai‘i (as of 2019) were real estate, rental, and leasing; government; accomm odation and food services; health care and social 
assistance; and retail trade (DBEDT 2020c). 
Prior to the COVID-19 global pandemic, Hawai‘i had the lowest unemployment rate in the n ation 
(BLS 2018). The pandemic has exacerbated existing economic stressors, causing a d ramatic 
reduction in tourism and prompting unprecedented business closures and increased 
unemployment. Unemployment in the state peaked in April 2020 at nearly 24%, largely due to stress in the hospitality and food/service industries (Associated Press 2020).  The state's labor underutilization rate—which includes the unemployed, involuntary part-time workers (i.e., workers employed part-time for economic reasons), and those marginally attached to the labor force—was 19.4% in 2020 (BLS 2021). This was dramatically higher than the state's previous unemployment rates: from 1990 to 2018, unemployment was highest in 2011 at 7.0% and lowest in 2017 at 2.4% (DBEDT 2020a). 
Some populations face unique challenges.  For example, older workers and people with health 
issues or disabilities may have difficulties finding a job or teleworking, and because these groups are more vulnerable to COVID-19 they may have to weigh protecting their health or preserving their job. Many women have also had to take on additional unpaid labor, such as childcare. 
A sustainable Hawai‘i cannot occur without a sustainable economy.  There is a unique 
opportunity to plan for and design a post-COVID sustainable economic recovery, by d iversifying 
and strengthening Hawai‘i's economic clusters and encouraging a regenerative, and 
environmentally and culturally sustainable tourism industry.  The tourism industry has tremendous potential to make progress by reducing its consumption of land, water, energy, and 
other natural resources, as well as taking a leadership role in protecting our natural areas.  
54 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 8 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-6 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-7 of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy —Agriculture Details provisions for achieving full employment and economic growth including promoting Hawai‘i as an attractive market for investment, penetrating new markets for 
Hawai‘i's products and services, foster cooperation between government and private 
sectors in developing employment and economic growth, and increasing communication with the educational community to ensure a curriculum that is relevant to Hawai‘i's job market. 
Details economic objectives relating to the agriculture section including diversifying 
agriculture and managing natural resources. 
Directs economic planning toward the achievement of a visitor industry that supports 
steady growth for the state. 
Promotes the development of federally supported activities in Hawai‘i. 
Encourages federal expenditures in Hawai‘i that generate long term employment. 
Details objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth. 
Establishes priority guidelines for economic growth, business expansion, and economic diversification. 
Promotes a diversified and dynamic economy. 
Encourages balancing economic, social, community, and environmental priorities. 
Hawai‘i Defense Economy Action Plan 
(2021) 
Hawai‘i Tourism Authority Strategic Plan: 
2020-2025 (2020) 
University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
(2018) 
Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy (2016) Identifies strategies for expanding and diversifying the tourism market. 
Establishes goals for each of the four pillars covered in the plan: natural resources, 
Hawaiian culture, community, and brand marketing. 
Establishes objectives, milestones, and measures to track the achievement of 
these goals. 
Identifies opportunities to align education with job creation and economic diversification 
by leading the development of a $1 billion innovation, research, education and training enterprise that addresses the challenges and opportunities faced by Hawai‘i and the 
world. 
Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic 
sectors including diversification of the tourism industry. 
The National Security and Hospitality and Tourism cluster includes redefining Hawai‘i as 
a destination of choice, identifying new tourism markets, supporting training programs for 
local residents to expand the workforce pipeline. Recognizes the role of Hawai‘i's unique relationship with the military and the role this 
partnership can play in economic development. 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge includes targets for sustainable tourism (continue to develop 
policies and initiatives to promote sustainable business practices that invest in Hawai‘i's natural and cultural resources and support local job creation and thriving communities) and innovation and entrepreneurship (foster an ecosystem of innovation, research, education, and entrepreneurship that creates living-wage jobs and a diversified economy). 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-8 of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy —Visitor Industry 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-9 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the E conomy 
—Federal Expenditures 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-103 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Economic Priority Guidelines 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-108 of Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Sustainability Priority Guidelines 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
  ||   55 
 
   
  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy —Potential Growth and Innovative Activities  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
10,424,99 5 tourists 
visited Hawai‘i in 2019 
(HTA 2020b). Tourism is 
a major contributing 
sector of Hawai‘i's 
economy, but there is no 
doubt that increased visitor numbers can also intensify strain on local 
communities and 
ecosystems. Sustainable 
tourism is often seen as a 
solution to address these effects. Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i turned to its community in 
a collaborative process to lessen the impacts of tourism and 
reform the park's management plan. While the park is a wahi 
pana, wahi kapu, and an area of ecological significance, it also 
struggled with overcrowding and vehicle congestion as one of 
Hawai‘i's busiest state parks (DLNR 2018). This crowding 
effectively pushed local residents out of a storied place in their 
own community. In response, the Hā‘ena State Park Master Plan 
engagement coordinated with the community and developed a 
plan to balance recreational use with natural and cultural resource 
protection and restoration. Community stakeholders and cultural 
practitioners continue to have an important role in plan 
implementation and park management, including through a 
community advisory committee and a future cultural advisory 
group. Other outcomes included a daily visitor limit of 900 (not 
counting cultural practitioners or special user groups), a parking 
reservation system for out-of-state visitors, a new boardwalk 
through the park's lo‘i, a permeable parking lot with integrated shuttle stop, and interpretive signage and staffing. While it took an 
unprecedented flood in 2018 and subsequent State emergency 
funding to fast-track these actions, a plan that normally would 
have taken years to implement was instead largely implemented 
within 12 months, and the Hā‘ena State Park Master Plan became 
an example to mitigate tourism impacts on local communities and provide a higher quality experience with the natural environment. 
Photo Left: Ke‘e Beach in Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State Parks. 
Photo Right: Lo‘i Kalo in Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State Parks. 
56  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 57  
 
  
 
INDUSTRY, 
INNOVATION, AND INFRASTRUCTURE 
Sustainable Development Goal 9 
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialization, and foster innovation 
This SDG's targets include: 
• Improving the sustainability and equity of all existing and future infrastructure 
• Promoting sustainable industrialization that encourages innovation 
• Increasing access to technology and supporting technology development 
Overview 
Hawai‘i's infrastructure (including airports, bridges, coastal areas, dams, energy systems, 
ports, roads, schools, solid waste, stormwater, wastewater, and drinking water) is aging.  A lack of sufficient funding for infrastructure, along with population, economic, and development growth, has made it challenging to effectively maintain and improve infrastructure (ASCE, 2019). Water main breaks, flood water damage, degradation of coastal highways, loss of property from coastal erosion, and beach and park closures from brown water advisories can all occur or happen more frequently due to deteriorating infrastructure (ASCE, 2019). Climate-influenced changes (e.g., sea level rise and increased coastal erosion, more frequent and intense hurricanes, higher king tides, and extreme weather events causing heavy rainfall, storm surge, and/or wind) are further stressing these assets (ASCE, 2019). 
Hawai‘i has an opportunity to incorporate green infrastructure as an adaptation strategy. 
This includes design concepts such as installation of more vegetation and permeable surfaces, which can decrease urban temperatures, reduce carbon emissions, improve air quality, increase urban tree canopy, and capture water to replenish the water table. 
Residents who live near green infrastructure also experience positive health impacts, such as 
a lower likelihood of heart and respiratory issues, improvements to mental health, and better 
overall quality of life. 
58 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 9 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-17 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Facility Systems—Transportation Includes provisions to attain high-speed wireless communication, facilitate innovative 
businesses, encourage job creation located in Hawai‘i, ensure that new economic growth 
meets the needs of Hawai‘i's people, and provide opportunities for Hawai‘i residents to 
be upwardly mobile in the information industry. 
Includes provisions on multimodal and mass transportation systems, including planning transportation systems to promote the use of alternative fuels. 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action Plan (2021) 
Hawai‘i Broadband Strategic Plan (2020) 
Statewide Coastal Highway Program 
Report (2019) 
State of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation 
Plan (2018) 
SustainableHNL Sustainable Management 
Plan (2016) Provides information and a framework for the creation of policies and programs to address the challenges faced in meeting the State's broadband goals. 
Provides a scientifically rigorous methodology to assess and rank the susceptibility of 
the State of Hawai‘i'
s coastal roads to erosion and structural degradation due to ocean 
hazards s uch as waves, currents, tides, and sea level rise. 
Identifies action plans to achieve the six broad hazard mitigation goals. The first goal in 
the hazard mitigation plan includes “reduc[ing] the long-term vulnerability of Hawai‘i's people… including State-owned or operated buildings, infrastructure and critical facilities.” 
Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic sectors. 
Emphasizes the importance of continued innovation and infrastructure improvement 
across the economy, including providing technological innovation and entrepreneurship in healthcare, and improving the infrastructure of the tourism sector to balance the needs 
of visitors and residents. Summarizes research on how climate change will impact Hawai‘i roadways. 
Outlines strategies to achieve greater network resilience in the face of long-term 
environmental risks. 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The University of Hawai‘i, in partnership with the private sector and state 
government, launched Hawai‘i's Innovation Initiative to build a thriving innovation, research, education and training enterprise in Hawai‘i.  
Hawai‘i  Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Plan (2016) 
Provides the framework for a management plan rooted in the best practices of 
sustainability that can serve as a model in design and process for State-run airports. 
Conducts a comprehensive analysis of how and where sustainability management 
is implemented into long-term planning at HNL. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   59 
 
 
   
  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i State Details objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy innovation, and job growth. 
—Potential Growth and Innovative Activities 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10.5 of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy —Information Industry  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
Over $4.4 billion worth of 
imports passed through 
Hawai‘i customs in 2019 
(DBEDT 2020b). Hawai‘i 
depends largely on goods 
shipped in from out-of-state: 
for example, 85-90% of our 
food supply is sourced 
from outside of Hawai‘i 
(Ofce of Planning 2012). 
However, this reliance 
leaves Hawai‘i vulnerable 
as disasters and emergencies can disrupt 
supply chains. The COVID-19 global pandemic rapidly highlighted Hawai‘i's 
vulnerability. In March 2020, the onset of intense demand for hand 
sanitizer created an enormous gap between the supply and demand of sanitizer. In response, Kō Hana Distillers, an O‘ahu distillery 
better known for its premium rum, with the assistance of the state 
of Hawai‘i, approached the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to for approval to produce high-proof alcohol as a base for 
sanitizer from distilling Hawai‘i-grown sugarcane. Other local 
businesses throughout Hawai‘i joined Kō Hana by supplying bottles, 
labels, boxes, ingredients, oversight, and labor—completing the manufacturing process and, together, creating the first locally made 
FDA-registered hand sanitizer in Hawai‘i. Within a few weeks, the 
sanitizer was ready for distribution and the State of Hawai‘i, along 
with several nonprofits, helped coordinate the logistics to disperse bottles of sanitizer into the community as quickly as practical.  First responders, hospitals, schools, kūpuna, correctional facilities, and homeless all received donations.  By December 2020, Kō Hana 
had locally produced over 50,000 gallons of hand sanitizer for the 
people of Hawai‘i. The distillery also planted nearly 300 new acres 
of sugarcane, ensuring sanitizer remains a permanent addition to 
Hawai‘i's locally manufactured products. 
Photo Left: Volunteers deliver FDA-approved hand sanitizer that was locally produced and manufactured by Kō Hana Hawaiian Agricole Rum Distillery to fill the supply gap and provide sanitizer to Hawai‘i hospitals, 
first responders, correctional facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i. 
Photo Right: Kō Hana sugar cane field in Kunia on the island of O‘ahu. Photo Credit: Kō Hana Distillers. 
60  Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 61  
  
 
 
 
REDUCE INEQUALITIES 
Sustainable Development Goal 10 
Reduce inequality within and among countries 
This UN goal seeks to reduce intercountry and intracountry inequalities 
and includes targets that address: 
• Promoting appropriate legislation and policies to achieve greater 
equality 
• Supporting the political, social, and economic inclusion of all peoples 
regardless of age, gender, ability, race, ethnicity, or economic status 
Overview 
Inequality in Hawai‘i manifests in a number of ways, including Native Hawaiians facing greater 
hardships and being further from attaining the outcomes of the SDGs.  As mentioned under SDG 3, 15% of Native Hawaiians do not have health insurance (compared with 4% of the population as a whole).  Overall, health outcomes are worse than average for Native Hawaiians, other Pacific Islanders, the mentally ill, and the poor. 
Hawai‘i also has a long history and continuing history of ensuring equal rights for the lesbian, gay, 
bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community and passed marriage equality legislation in 2013. Hawai‘i was also one of the first states to ban conversion therapy for minors, ban gay/ trans-panic as an affirmative defense, and expanded gender markers on State IDs and driver's licenses to include “X” for a non-binary option.  However, LGBTQ+ residents are more likely to 
face health inequities (such as higher likelihood of chronic diseases and poor mental health) due to discrimination in the healthcare system and higher rates of domestic abuse (DOH 2017). 
Achievements in other SDGs may positively impact SDG 10, and reducing inequalities will support 
the achievement of other SDGs. 
62 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 10 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Marriage Equality Act of 2013 
Act 148, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019: Relating to 
Gender Identification Legalized same-sex marriage in the state. 
Expa nded gender options applicable to driver's licenses and state identification cards 
to include a non-binary option of “X.” 
Sanctions the submissions of complaints in regards to discrimination or discriminatory 
practices. 
Proh ibits discrimination in employment. 
Clearly defines terms relating to potential discrimination. 
Outlaws disciminatory actions that deny, or  attempt to deny, a person full and 
equal enjoyment of publicly available goods, resources, and accomodations. 
Identifies and outlaws discriminatory practices related to real estate transactions. 
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Reports 
(2020) Annual reports on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong State civil rights laws by 
rebuilding c apacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for State civil rights law 
enforcement. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil Rights 
Commission 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 378: Employment 
Practices 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 489: Discrimination in 
Public Accommodations 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 515: Discrimination in 
Real Property Transactions 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   63 
 
 
    Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 Sets goal to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of Hawai‘i's 
(b) (16): Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives a nd population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures. 
Policies for the Economy—In General 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-24: Hawai‘i Sets objective to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio- every individual and assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and 
cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal other public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in 
Well-Being society.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
All water in Hawai‘i is h eld as 
a public trust 
(Hawai‘i Const. art. XI).  A key feature of Hawai‘i law, this is an 
inheritance from Kānaka Maoli 
culture and principles where 
private ownership of water was 
unthinkable and instead 
managed for the benefit of all.  
However, the state's plantation 
legacy and oversight of this 
public trust ethic means that 
the reality of water use is far 
more contentious and often culminates in notoriously prolonged lawsuits (Sproat 2009). 
The 2017 Waimea W atershed 
Agreement s tands out for 
being H awai‘i's first major 
water dispute resolved 
without litigation, an 
accomplishment made e ven 
more significant by 
its disparate signatories. Pō‘ai 
Wai Ola (a “taroroots” organization representing 
community members and 
cultural practitioners), 
the State Agribusiness Development Corporation 
(ADC), the Kaua‘i Island U tility 
Cooperative (KIUC), t he Kekaha 
Agriculture A ssociation (KAA), 
and the D epartment of 
Hawaiian H ome Lands (DHHL) 
all s igned the agreement after a 
year of formal mediation 
(Henkin 2017). At the center of the case was Waimea River: from its headwaters in 
Alaka‘i Swamp, through the “Grand Canyon of the Pacific,” 
and into the Pacific Ocean, the river is a major water source that once 
supported an expansive lo‘i system, and yet by 2013 had become so 
low and silt-filled due to upstream diversions that a 15-foot swimming 
hole had disappeared (Earthjustice 2013). Every party had its own 
design for beneficial use of the water, but at the suggestion of 
mediation by the State Commission on Water Resources, and with 
diligent effort by a communally respected figure (who eventually 
became the case's mediator), everyone found they agreed with the 
following cornerstone: above all, Waimea River should be allowed to 
flow ma uka to ma kai, and total diversion of the water must never 
happen again. With common ground established, conversation could 
begin, and this founding principle evolved into the first of the 
agreement's “Statement of Guiding Principles” (Earthjustice 2013). 
The outcome was a compromise that managed to cede important wins 
to all stakeholders. Millions of gallons of water would be restored to 
Waimea River, allowing for minimum instream flows through its 
entirety to support stream ecosystems and traditional cultural 
practices (Henkin 2017). Hawaiian homesteads on DHHL land in 
Waimea, which had remained undeveloped due in part to lack of water, would have water specifically reserved for them for 
the first time since 1921 (DHHL 2017).  KIUC would have the opportunity to develop a pumped-storage hydro “battery” using water 
from Waimea River, which if advanced would diversify Kaua‘i's 
renewable energy portfolio and provide for infrastructure necessary to 
develop the Waimea homesteads (DHHL 2017). Finally, ADC and KAA 
could continue utilizing existing ditch irrigation systems from the river for agriculture (Mediation Agreement 2017). This remarkable feat of negotiation and cooperation is considered “historic,” and it shows that zero-sum outcomes aren’t inevitable: that by setting aside ultimatums, exhibiting empathy, and being willing to listen, even opposed parties can come to terms and a resolution found. 
Photo Left: Waimea River, Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. 
Photo Right: Waimea River, Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. 
64  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 65   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
SUSTAINABLE CITIES 
AND COMMUNITIES 
Sustainable Development Goal 11 
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, 
and sustainable 
The core tenets of an “inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable” city or 
community as defned by this UN goal are as follows: 
• Affordable housing 
• Access to public spaces 
• Sustainable transportation systems, including public transport 
• Safe cultural and natural heritage 
• Protected against losses related to natural disasters 
• Reduced adverse per capita environmental impact of cities (air quality, waste management) 
Overview 
Residents of Hawai‘i celebrate access to public spaces, beaches, and the ocean, and prioritizing the 
vitality of cultural and natural heritage.  There is significant work to be done, however, to increase 
mobility and accessibility, provide increased access to affordable housing, and increase the economic wellbeing of households.  
In Hawai‘i, Maui and Kaua‘i islands, smart growth and transit-oriented development (TOD) principles 
are being planned to encourage quality growth and vibrant mixed-use neighborhoods in urban or rural centers. In O‘ahu's urban areas, the State of Hawai‘i in partnership with the City and County of Honolulu is working on TOD around its rail corridor. This effort aims to provide more green and 
public gathering spaces, safer streets, and less pollution and noise, all while being sensitive to the needs of the neighboring community.  Honolulu also recently published a guide outlining design principles that can help develop policy and regulations for urban areas that may be vulnerable to climate change hazards.  All four counties have made commitments to use 100% renewable fuel 
sources for public ground transportation by 2045. 
Sustainable development of buildings and the use of green infrastructure help to mitigate the 
environmental impact of cities. The State of Hawai‘i has requirements for sustainable development 
of State buildings, including LEED certification and water recycling and reclamation. Further, the use 
of green infrastructure has many co-benefits for communities, including enhancing livability, 
improving physical and mental health, sequestering CO
2 from the atmosphere, improving air quality, 
slowing and filtering stormwater runoff, reducing flooding and soil erosion, and reducing the urban 
heat island effect.  Honolulu lost nearly 5% of total urban tree canopy over four years. The City and 
County of Honolulu in collaboration with Kaulunani Urban Forestry program are working to reverse 
this trend and have produced a tree canopy assessment to use as a baseline and have pledged to 
increase the urban tree canopy to 35% by 2035. 
Hawai‘i has some of the best air quality in the nation. Some air pollution issues may still occur due to 
the presence of automobiles, and the Department of Health continues to regulate and monitor air pollution sources.  As seen during the 2014-2015, 2016, and 2018-2019 lava eruptions from Kı̄lauea Volcano on Hawai‘i Island can also occasionally experience volcanic smog, or vog, a mixture of atmospheric aerosols and volcanic gases that can have harmful health effects.  While the State cannot 
control the formation of vog, it can reduce health risks by closing highly exposed trails when necessary and educating the public about proper protective actions. 
66 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 11 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical Environment—Land, Air, and Water Quality 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-17 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Facility Systems—Transportation Includes policy to improve air quality to enhance the health and well-being of Hawai‘i's 
people. 
Identifies objectives and policies for transportation facility systems, including the 
enhancement of the public transit system to accommodate growth and the integration of 
an efficient multi-modal transportation system. 
Defines state policy objectives for advancing opportunities for affordable housing and the 
orderly d evelopment of residential areas sensitive to community needs and other land 
uses. 
Prioritizes the need and access for affordable housin g as a priority guideline for 
the Hawai‘i State Planning Act to address as an issue of statewide concern. 
Established a goal of developing 22,500 affordable rental units statewide to be ready 
for occupancy by December 31, 2026, and a Special Action Team on Affordable 
Rental Housing to recommend actions to achieve the goal. Directs agencies to design buildings and facilities to meet high-level LEED standards, 
and to purchase fuel-efficient and alternative fueled vehicles whenever possible. 
State of Hawai‘i Hazard Mitigation Plan 
(2018) 
State of Hawai‘i Strategic Plan for 
Transit-Oriented Development (2018) 
State of Hawai‘i Affordable Rental 
Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan 
(2018) Guides the implementation of transit-oriented development projects including the 
development of affordable housing. 
Based on seven principles of transit-oriented development, including prioritizing p rojects 
in areas served by public transit, creating effective partnerships, maximizing t he co-
location of state facilities, developing affordable housing, engaging in equitable 
development, using sustainable building practices, and investing in critical infrastructure. 
Developed a baseline of affordable rental units currently in the planning stages or under 
development, implementing actions, and measures of effectiveness to guide achievement o f the affordable rental housing goals. 
Provides next step recommendations on ways to support affordable rental housing in the 
state. 
Guides the implementation of the Hawai‘i State Plan housing goals and objectives. 
Covers four priority areas, which include expanding and preserving rental housing 
opportunities, increase homeownership, addressing barriers to residential development, and maintaining a housing information system. 
Includes clearly defined problem statements followed by objectives, policies, 
implementing actions and accessory details such as lead organization, budget estimates, s tart date and measures of effectiveness. Outlines a long-term strategy for the state to reduce risk and losses from future natural hazard events. 
Serves as a technical reference for updates to local county hazard mitigation plans 
that integrates best available data and climate science. 
Provides a robust risk assessment that expands upon the number and type of assets 
assessed in the 2013 Hazard Mitigation Plan. 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge includes a Smart Sustainable Communities target to increase 
livability and resilience in the built environment through planning and implementation 
at the state and county levels. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-19 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-Cultural Advancement—Housing 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-106 of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines for the Provision of Affordable Housing 
Act 127, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016: Relating to Housing Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-9: Energy Efficiency and Environmental Standards for State Facilities, Motor Vehicles, and Transportation Fuel 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   67 
 
  
  Housing Functional Plan (2017)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
In 2017, ground 
transportation alone accounted for about 20% of Hawai‘i's greenhouse gas emissions (DOH 2021a). Meeting the State's Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target will require signifcant greenhouse gas emission reduction in this area, which in turn will require a multi-pronged approach of increasing multimodal active transportation, zero emission vehicle use, and increased use of alternative fuels. Maui-based Pacifc Biodiesel is currently the only 
commercial biofuel producer in Hawai‘i and the nation's 
longest operating biodiesel producer, with locations on 3 islands. Pacific Biodiesel produces nearly 5.5 million gallons of 
biodiesel annually from waste oil, largely sourced from restaurants across the islands (Pacifc Biodiesel 2019a).  This circular economic model to sustainably manage and recycle food waste converts fats, 
oils and grease (FOG) into fuels. Through a community-based 
recycling program, “Restaurants 4 Renewables” in Hawai‘i 
County, Maui County, and the City and County of Honolulu, the 
company collects and converts used cooking oil into renewable 
energy from over 900 local restaurants, hotels, and other food 
service operations. Converting used cooking oil and grease trap 
waste into biodiesel diverts waste from landfills and provides a 
locally-produced fuel that generates approximately 74% fewer 
lifetime greenhouse gas emissions than traditional petroleum diesel 
(U.S. DOE n.d.). 
In order to support an end-to-end, 100% local production process, 
Pacifc Biodiesel began a 115-acre project in 2017 to grow sunfowers to increase its local fuel source supply—and made history by being 
the largest biofuel crop project in the state of Hawai‘i and the only 
biofuel farming operation in the state running on 100% renewable 
fuel (Penniman 2018). In 2019, the Hamakua Energy power 
generation facility, which provides up to 22% of Hawai‘i Island's 
generating capacity, diversifed its fuel sourcing by using biodiesel fuel to reduce the facility's dependence on fossil fuels and advance Hawai‘i Island's energy independence and energy security (PBN 2019). 
Photo Left: With a production capacity of 5.5 million gallons annually, Pacific Biodiesel's refinery on Hawai‘i 
Island utilizes state-of-the art distillation technology to produce the nation’s highest quality biodiesel. 
All the fuel produced at this facility is sold within the state of Hawai‘i. Photo Credit: Pacific Biodiesel. 
Photo Right: Pacific Biodiesel’s business model focuses on recycling with a zero-waste philosophy that 
incorporates development of value-added co-products.  In 2017 the company began farming sunflowers and other biofuel crops on the island of Maui–supporting local energy diversification and resilience, and carbon 
sequestration. Photo Credit: Pacific Biodiesel. 68  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 69  
 
  
 
 
RESPONSIBLE 
CONSUMPTION  
AND PRODUCTION 
Sustainable Development Goal 12 
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 
This UN SDG seeks to improve sustainable consumption and production by: 
• Promoting the adoption of sustainable consumption practices and 
sustainable public procurement practices 
• Mitigating emissions from solid waste by reducing waste generation and diverting waste 
• Reducing food waste 
Overview 
Hawai‘i is relatively sustainable when it comes to food waste, discarding 356 pounds of food per year 
per person compared to 429 pounds on the continental United States. For the most part, food waste in Hawai‘i either goes through incineration or into the landfill. There are opportunities to increase other methods of food recovery, such as through composting or source reduction.  These methods could also result in pollution or greenhouse gas reductions by reducing the amount of particles and emissions produced by landfills and combustion. 
Each of the counties throughout the State of Hawai‘i have laws and initiatives to reduce plastics and are 
proceeding somewhat differently (DOH 2020). 
There is an opportunity in the wake of the COVID-19 global pandemic to reevaluate waste m anagement 
practices, including encouraging the tourism industry to adopt sustainable practices, as c onsumer 
behaviors adapt to the “new normal” that has formed from statewide stay-at-home orders. In 2020, 
there were 47 certified sustainable eco-tourism businesses. Further sustainability in the t ourism 
sector could position Hawai‘i as a global leader in that sector. 
70 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 12 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-14 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Facility Systems 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §103D-1005: Encouraging the 
use of Recycled Products through the Hawai‘i Public Procurement Code Includes provisions to ensure the success of Hawai‘i's waste systems and 
encourages design to support the prudent use of resources. 
Encourages purchasing preference for products containing recycled materials. 
Prioritizes solid waste management practices an d processing methods in the order 
of source reduction, recycling and bioconversion, and landfilling and incineration. 
Required waste diversion rates of 25% by 1995 and 50% by 2000, as well as a 
reduction of 25% of office paper generation by 1995 from a 1990 baseline. 
Requires purchasing preference for recycled material products that are designed 
for durability. 
Require
s state and county agencies to establish office paper and other 
materials recovery programs. 
Set a fee for advance disposal for every glass container importer. 
Set a fee of 5 cents per deposit on beverage containers manufactured within 
or imported to the state. 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Solid Waste Management Annual Report (2021) 
State of Hawai‘i Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report (2020) Discusses solid waste management practices and methods for source reduction, recycling and bioconversion, and landfilling or incineration. 
Provides statewide recommendations and methods to improve the processes to 
reuse, reduce, recycle, and recover plastic waste. 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge has six goals for solid waste reduction: 1) increased total solid 
waste diversion, 2) decreased total solid waste generation, 3) increased recycling, 4) 
more source reduction, 5) increased reuse, and 6) increased waste to energy.  The 
initiative's goal is a 70% reduction in waste by 2030. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-2: Solid Waste Management Priorities 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-41: Goals for 
Procurement of Recycled Products 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-45: Paper Recovery 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-82: Advance 
Disposal Fee on Imported Glass Containers 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-102: Deposit 
Beverage Container Fee 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   71 
  
    
   Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-3: Solid Waste Management 
Goals  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
Decaying organic waste 
emits methane, a greenhouse 
gas w ith at least twenty-
eight times more global 
warming p otential than 
carbon dioxide ( EPA 2020).  
There are also v aluable 
nutrients in organic w aste 
that are lost when 
it is sent to landfills and incinerators. Composting (turning organic material 
into rich soil through 
decomposer organisms) 
sequesters CO
2 and these 
valuable nutrients from 
organic waste in the soil. 
This s ustainable practice 
reduces g reenhouse gas 
emissions w hile improving 
soil health. The Windward Zero Waste School Hui is a nonprofit on O‘ahu 
working to reduce waste levels, recover these nutrients, and 
generate revenue for five Kailua-Kalāheo Complex schools 
through on-site composting.  Siting compost production on 
school grounds eliminates waste transportation emissions and 
allows students to learn about soil science, ecology, environmental 
stewardship, and green careers. Windward Zero Waste School Hui also farms earthworms on the campuses for compost needs and 
sales, and compost and worms are sold to community members 
and local farmers.  In total, Windward Zero Waste School Hui 
composted 47,164 pounds of waste across the five schools in 2020 
(note: this number is low due to COVID-19 global pandemic school 
closures; since this organization previously composted 108,703 
pounds o f waste in 2019), and the combined compost soil and 
worm sales generated $46,504—100% of which went directly to the schools. This is significant since over 37% of students in the 
Kailua-Kalāheo Complex were deemed economically disadvantaged 
in the 2017-2018 school year, and research has shown that increasing spending per student correlates with higher wages and 
lower poverty rates in adulthood (DOE 2019, Jackson et al. 2016). 
In addition to t heir waste reduction benefits, Windward Zero 
Waste School Hui's c ompost programs provide additional revenue 
for greater student i nvestment, a welcome
d resource as schools 
face b udget challenges and the amount of economically 
disadvantaged s tudents increases from the impacts of the 
COVID-19 global pandemic. 
Photo Left and Right: On-site composting at Enchanted Lake Elementary School, in Kailua, O‘ahu, one 
of the public schools participating in the Windward Zero Wast School Hui, which teaches children 
zero waste and resource recovery practices. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning. 
72  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 73  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLIMATE ACTION 
Sustainable Development Goal 13 
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 
This goal includes targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase 
resilience, and adapt to the impacts of climate change 
Overview 
Efforts to understand, mitigate, and adapt to the impacts of climate change are critical due to 
Hawai‘i’s isolated geography, unique cultural heritage, and heavy reliance on the tourism industry. 
Hawai‘i anticipates an estimated 3.2 feet of sea level rise by 2100. Climate change impacts, such as 
sea level rise and more frequent and intense extreme weather events (hurricanes, flood, droughts), pose an increasing threat to infrastructure and communities. Sea level rise is especially hazardous as 
it will affect many critical transportation systems, such as regional highways, airports, and harbors. 
Hawai‘i has seen an increase in extreme rainfall events from 1940 to present in addition to an increase in more consecutive dry days (USGCRP 2018).  
The Fourth National Climate Assessment projects the impacts of rising sea levels and other climate 
change impacts will result in the loss of 550 cultural sites in Hawai‘i, more than 6,500 structures 
becoming unusable, and roughly 20,000 displaced residents. According to the State of Hawai‘i’s Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation report, statewide losses due to climate change are projected to total more than $19 billion (USGCRP 2018). 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71 enacted a statewide target to reduce GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. Total GHG emissions in Hawai‘i in 2017 were 17.87 million metric tons of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (MMT CO
2e), roughly 8% lower than 1990 levels. Statewide projections indicated 
Hawai‘i was on track to meet the GHG emissions target by 2020. 
Figure 2: Hawai‘i GHG Emissions by Sector for 1990, 2007, 2010, and 2015-2017. Source: Hawai’i S tate DOH 
(2021) 
Figure 2 shows emission trends by sector for each year that Hawai‘i has conducted a GHG inventory.  
The energy sector is the largest source of emissions in Hawai‘i, accounting for 86% of total emissions. Emissions from transportation accounted for the largest share of energy sector emissions in 2017, followed by stationary energy combustion emissions largely driven by emissions from electric power plants, petroleum refineries, and industry. Agriculture, forestry, and other land use (AFOLU), waste, and industrial processes and product use (IPPU) sectors accounted for 6, 4, and 4% of total emissions, r espectively in 2017 (DOH 2021a).  
AFOLU is the only sector that overall, sequesters carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Healthy native forests and sustainable agricultural practices are essential to stabilizing soil organic carbon which 
accounts for over half of the carbon dioxide stored in Hawai‘i's terrestrial ecosystems (Selmants et al. 2017). 
The State of Hawai‘i is committed to reducing GHG emissions, adapting to climate change, and 
incorporating climate change considerations into decision-making. In April 2021, the State of Hawai‘i adopted Senate Concurrent Resolution 44, and became the first state in the United States to declare a climate emergency. 
74  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 13 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
Hawai‘i Revised St atutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i State Includes provisions to reduce the threat to life and property from erosion, flooding, 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other natural or man-induced 
Environment hazards and disasters. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65 of the Hawai‘i State Specifies that the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan will serve as the State's climate and 
Planning Act: Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan sustainability strategic action plan. 
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to update the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan every 10 years. 
Hawai‘i Revised St atutes §226-109 of the Hawai‘i State Promotes sector resilience by encouraging the identification of climate change threats, the 
Planning Act: Cl imate Change Adaptation Priority assessment of potential consequences, and the evaluation of adaptation. 
Guidelines 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2 (b) (6): Office of Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to provide coastal and ocean policy 
Planning; Responsibilities ; Coastal and Ocean management, and sea level rise adaptation coordination.  
Policy Managemen t and Sea Level Rise Adaptation Carries out the lead agency responsibilities for the Hawai‘i Coastal Zone ManagementCoordination program, as specified in Chapter 205A. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2 (b) (9): Office o f Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to develop, monitor, and evaluate strategic 
Planning; Responsibilities ; Climate Adaptation and climate adaptation plans and actionable policy recommendations for the State and 
Sustainability Planning and Coordination counties a ddressing expected statewide climate change impacts and provide planning and 
policy g uidance and assistance to state and county agencies regarding climate change 
and sustainability. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8: Statewide Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to develop, organize, and promote policies 
Sustainability B ranch and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and climate policies and goals. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-3: Hawai‘i Climate Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Climate Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, which is 
Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission administratively attached to the Department of Land and Natural Resources. Coordination of this advisory commission is headed jointly by two co-chairs: the Chairperson of the Board of Land and Natural Resources and the Director of the State of Hawai‘i's Office of 
Planning, or their designees. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-4: Greenhouse Gas 
Sequestration Ta sk Fo rce 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-5: Z ero Emissions 
Clean Economy Target Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Greenhouse Gas Sequestration Task Force, which is 
administratively attached to the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning, charged with a number of statutory objectives, which among other responsibilities, include: identifying the potential to improve soil health, and increasing greenhouse gas sequestration in the agricultural, aquacultural, urban, and natural environments. 
Sets a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and GHGs than emitted within the state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71:  Greenhouse Gas Limited statewide GHG emissions to be equal to or below 1990 levels by 2020, excluding 
Emissions Limit emissions from airplanes. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-72:  Greenhouse Gas Established source category-specific GHG limits. 
Emissions Limit, Rules Requires conducting statewide GHG inventories, verification, and reporting to track progress. 
Act 32, Session L aws of Hawai‘i 2017 Directed the State of Hawai‘i to expand strategies and mechanisms to reduce statewide 
greenhouse gas emissions through reduction of energy use, adoption of renewable energy, 
and control of air pollution among all agencies, departments, industries, and sectors, 
including transportation. 
Aligns the State of Hawai‘i's commitment to combat climate change with the principles and 
goals set forth by the United Nations‘ Paris Agreement and Hawai‘i's share of 
the obligations within the expectations apportioned to the United States in the Paris 
Agreement. 
Senate Concurren t Resolution 44 (2021): Declaring a 
Climate Emergency and Requesting Statewide 
Collaboration Toward an Immediate Just Transition and 
Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate Resolves that the state mobilize climate mitigation and adaptation efforts to address 
climate change at the necessary scale and speed. 
Advocates for the facilitation of investments in beneficial projects and infrastructure that 
promote zero emissions Affirms that the State commits to statewide action that is rooted in equity, self-determination, culture, tradition, and the belief that people locally and around the world have the right to clean, healthy, and adequate air, water, land, food, education, and shelter. 
HB 243 (2021): Relating to Sea Level Rise Adaptation* Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning while coordinating with other State agencies to identify existing and planned facilities that are vulnerable to the impact of sea 
level rise, flooding impacts, and natural hazards and assess options to mitigate those impacts, and add sustainable development and climate change adaptation as objectives for facility systems. 
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature and transmitted to the 
Governor for consideration. 75  
 
 
 
Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 13 
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action Summarizes research on how climate change will impact 
Plan (2021) Hawai‘i's roadways. 
Outlines strategies to achieve greater network resilience in the 
face of long-term environmental risks. 
Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Highlights opportunities for Hawai‘i to implement nature-based 
Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper strategies to adapt to and mitigate climate change. 
(2021) 
Ocean Resources Management Plan (2020) Identifies 18 strategic actions across three focus area goals 
(development and coastal hazards, land-based pollution, and marine resources) to advance the State‘s management of 
ocean resources. 
Guidance for Addressing Sea Level Rise in Community Planning in Hawai‘i (2020) Provides additional guidance following on the 2017 Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report. 
Assists county planners to build upon and improve existing 
efforts to address sea level rise for four key topics: 1) vulnerability assessment, 2) land use and development 
alternatives, 3) plan and policy alignment, and 4) adaptive management. 
Feasibility and Implications of Establishing a Evaluates the feasibility for the Hawai‘i State Government to 
Carbon Offset Program for the State of foster additional greenhouse gas reductions through carbon 
Hawai‘i (2019) offset credits. 
State of Hawai‘i Statewide Coastal Highway 
Program Report (2019) Develops a scientifically rigorous methodology to assess and rank the susceptibility of the state's coastal roads to erosion and structural degradation due to ocean hazards such as waves, currents, tides and sea level rise. 
Presents a new index methodology that considers the principal 
factors that determine coastal erosion and road degradation. 
The method is based on determination of the index CRESI (Coastal Road Erosion Susceptibility Index), which is evaluated a t discrete locations along coastal roads in relatively 
close p roximity to the ocean, and segments the coastal roads 
to have low, medium, and high susceptibility to structural degradation. 
Feasibility and Implications of Managed Makes findings regarding retreat programs and their 
Retreat Strategies for Vulnerable Coastal relative significance to Hawai‘i and a specific multi‐ prong 
Areas in Hawai‘i (2019) recommendation regarding the feasibility of retreat in Hawai‘i. 
State of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation Plan (2018) Provides a five-year strategy to reduce risk and losses from future natural hazard events. Promotes resiliency and sustainability, aids in consistent evaluation, and provides a means to reduce the costs associated with disaster response 
and recovery, includes a mitigation action plan with information such as estimated costs, potential funding sources, anticipated timelines, and the expected benefits and avoided losses of each hazard mitigation action identified. 
Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Provides a statewide assessment of Hawai‘i’ s vulnerability to 
Report (2017) sea level rise and nine recommendations to reduce exposure 
to its impacts. 
Photo Right: Waikı̄ ̄kı, O‘ahu.
76 Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority.  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 77  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
Hawai‘i is predicted to 
experience a hurricane every 16 years that is powerful enough to cause a FEMA disaster declaration.  In fact, climate change is expected to increase this occurrence by causing stronger and more frequent hurricanes, and climate change will also exacerbate vulnerability to other natural disasters such as fooding, wildfres, and tsunamis. Isolated communities are especially vulnerable to natural 
disasters if utilities become cut of and vital roads become 
impassable, giving no access for emergency services to 
reach communities in the crucial hours and days after a 
disaster. In April 2018, this occurred when floods and landslides 
from record-breaking rainfall in Kaua‘i resulted in severe damage to 
roads, schools, homes, and other structures. The communities of 
Hā‘ena, Wainiha, and Hanalei on Kaua‘i's North Shore were among 
those most impacted because the only highway built to connect 
these communities to the rest of the island was closed into 2019 due to critical damage from the foods.  However, to prevent similar disaster catastrophes in the future, the County of Kaua‘i is leading a 
collaborative initiative for a Wainiha Community Resiliency Center, 
which will service these North Shore communities before, during 
and after future disasters. Funded by appropriations for disaster 
relief from Act 35, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019, the Wainiha 
Community Resiliency Center will include a commercial kitchen, supplies staging and storage space, and satellites ofces for frst 
responders and State Parks ofcials, as well as provide a community 
gathering space and an improved shelter against hurricanes compared to older buildings.  
Photo Left and Right: Hanalei Hill landslide and landslide clearing as a result of heavy rain and floods 
on Kaua‘i Island in March 2021. Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation. 
78  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 79  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
LIFE BELOW WATER 
Sustainable Development Goal 14 
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources 
for sustainable development 
This goal aims to balance the mindful use of marine and coastal 
resources and conservation. Targets to achieve this goal include: 
• Preventing and reducing land-based debris and nutrient pollution 
that causes harm to marine and coastal environments 
• Regulating and managing the use of marine and coastal resources 
Overview 
Climate changes, including rising air temperatures, changing rainfall patterns, drought, flooding, and 
saltwater contamination, are threatening marine ecosystems. The changing climate also impacts local biodiversity of native species. Rising ocean temperatures and acidification threaten the sustainability of fisheries and coral reefs. Coral  reefs are a key draw for Hawai‘i's tourism industry, 
adding over $350 million to the local economy each year. However, coral bleaching has already begun (DLNR 2017). For example, elevated ocean temperatures led to extreme coral bleaching in 2014– 2015, with a nearly 50% decline in coral cover in west Hawai‘i and a 20–40% decline in Maui. Mass coral beaching events are anticipated to continue if no climate action is taken (Office of Planning 2020). 
Currently, Hawai‘i's residents are concerned about the human impact on nearshore areas (Office of 
Planning 2020).  There is also the concern for the health of aquatic ecosystems and the migration of native fish species as ocean temperatures increase due to climate change. Previous fish mortaility events in O‘ahu have been connected to slackened trade winds and elevated surface water temperatures. As an island community, many Hawai‘i residents enjoy a seafood diet and rely upon subsistence living, including fishing; however, declines in tuna and billfish populations are projected to impact the fishery industry with 2–5% losses per decade (USGCRP 2018).  
There is the need to balance agricultural productivity on the islands, which boost Hawai‘i's food 
security, self-sufficiency and access to fresh food, with the pollution to nearshore waters caused in part by intensive agricultural practices. Runoff from residential areas is also a contributing source of water pollution. There is a nascent recognition of the need to protect groundwater-dependent ecosystems.  
One of the three main focus areas of the
2020 Ocean Resources Management Plan is land-based 
pollution, which highlights polluted stormwater runoff as a pervasive and widespread issue within 
Hawai‘i's watersheds (Office of Planning 2020). 
80 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge has a target to reverse the trend of natural 
resource loss by increasing freshwater security, watershed protection, community-based marine management, invasive 
species prevention and native species restoration. The 
challenge also includes the goal to significantly increase the percentage of Hawai‘i's marine waters under active management by 2030. The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a goal to protect 30% of priority watersheds and effectively manage 30% of nearshore ocean waters by 2030. EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-11 of the Hawai‘i St ate 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land-Based, Shoreline, and Marine Resources 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 342D: Wate r 
Pollution Descr ibes objectives regarding the sustainable use of marine resources and the 
protection of fragile environmental resources, including species and habitat conservation 
and do-no-harm principles. 
Defines the rules and regulations for water pollution management in Hawai‘i under the 
purview of the Department of Health. 
Outlin es the rules and regulations for the management of Hawai‘i's coastal zone, 
including the  specification of special management areas. 
Outlin es the policies relating to how aquatic resources can be used in Hawai‘i, including 
fishing rights and how to prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species. 
Specifies further regulations relating to fishing in the waters of Hawai‘i, including 
licensing and provisions for subsistence fishing. 
Establishes the West Hawai‘i Regional Fishery Management Area in order to improve 
the m anagement o f consumptive and non-consumptive uses of aquatic resources in 
that region. 
Outlin es the State regulations surrounding commercial fishing, including reporting 
requirements, licensing, approved and prohibited techniques, and the purchase of 
fishing v essels. 
Establishes marine life conservation districts and defines what activities are permitted 
within t hose d istricts. 
Specifies how various species will be protected, and how the state will assist in the 
recovery of species‘ population, health, or ecosystems. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205A: Coastal Zone 
Management 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 187A: Aquatic Resources 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 188: Fishing Rights and Regulations 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 188F: We st Hawai‘i 
Regional Fishery Management Area 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 189: Commercial 
Fishing 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 190: Marin e Life 
Conservation Program 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195D: Conserva tion of 
Aquatic Life, Wildlife, and Land Plants 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
  ||   81 
 
   
  Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 14 
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Nonpoint Source Management Establishes goals, objectives, strategies, and milestones to reduce and prevent 
Plan: 2021-2025 (2021) nonpoint source pollution and improve water quality, guiding the state's nonpoint source 
pollution management efforts. 
Office of Planning's Ocean Resources Identifies 18 strategic actions across three focus area goals (development and coastal 
Management Plan (2020) hazards, land-based pollution, and marine resources) to advance the state's 
management of ocean resources. 
Holomua: Marine 30x30 (2020) Provides a vision of a healthy nearshore ecosystem with abundant resources that allow t he people of Hawai‘i to enjoy coastal waters, support local livelihoods, and feed 
their families. 
Includes four key pillars to effectively manage Hawai‘i's nearshore waters with at least 
30% established as marine management areas by 2030: place-based planning, pono 
practices, monitoring, and protection and restoration. 
Hawai‘i Coral Reef Strategy 2030 (2020) Outlines recommendations for projects that address coral reef ecosystem planning and 
summarizes the impact of previous projects on Hawai‘i 's reef resiliency. 
Water Resource Protection Plan (2019) Component of the Hawai‘i Water Plan that seeks to protect and sustain statewide g round 
and surface water resources, watersheds, and natural stream environments. 
Recognizes that groundwater dependent ecosystems (GDEs) support a variety of 
valuable e cosystem services, such as flood control, water supply, water purification, 
recreational o pportunities, biodiversity, and traditional and customary rights. However, the 
current a pproach for managing ground water in Hawai‘i does not explicitly account for the 
ground w ater discharge needs of GDEs. 
Coral Bleaching Recovery Plan (2017) Promotes the recovery of coral reefs following the 2014-2015 global coral bleaching event by identifying which management interventions are the most likely to promote recovery.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
Coral, or ko‘a, is the frst 
species named in the 
Kumulipo. This is one 
of the many ways Kānaka 
Maoli underpin the close 
relationship between life on 
land and sea. Coral's cultural 
signifcance, along with its 
ecological and economic 
importance, is why the 
declining health of Hawai‘i's 
corals in the face of human 
pressures and climate change 
evokes great concern. As a popular destination for coral reefs, Hanauma Bay on O‘ahu is no 
different in facing this dual threat. The bay's coral colonies face 
stress from multiple bleaching events, and with nearly 845,000 
visitors in 2019 alone, the coral colonies also show reduced growth in more disturbed areas (Star Advertiser 2020, Severino et al. 2020). The COVID-19 global pandemic further demonstrated the effects of visitor traffic: after Hanauma Bay was closed for safety purposes in 
March 2020, water clarity improved by 64% and as much as 
19.5 feet, larger fish were spotted in the reef, and there was a 
reported increase in endangered Hawaiian monk seal activity (Star 
Advertiser 2020, Serota 2020). The bay's closure also allowed the nonprofit Friends of Hanauma Bay, in partnership with DLNR-DAR's Coral Restoration Nursery, to begin coral restoration to repair damage to the reef (Friends of Hanauma Bay 2021). When Hanauma Bay reopened in December 2020, the City and County of Honolulu implemented COVID-19 capacity limits, shortened operation hours, increased non-resident visitor fees, and closures two days a week, which allowed for a reopening while continuing reduced pressure on the coral reef (Star Advertiser 2020). Although challenges remain, as the bay reopens further, an unmatched opportunity will be provided to monitor visitor impacts from a new baseline and determine the best mechanisms to steward a more thriving Hanauma Bay. 
Photo Left: Friends of Hanauma Bay and Ocean Defenders Alliance Hawai‘i partnered to launch a 
citizen science study during the COVID-19 pandemic safety closure on Hanauma Bay’s Coral Colony 
Temporal Texture Study to determine baseline health of coral within Hanauma Bay’s inner reef. 
Photo Credit: Friends of Hanauma Bay. 
Photo Right: Hanauma Bay on the island of O‘ahu reopened to the public after being closed for 9 months 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The COVID-19 closure rejuvenated the bay’s marine environment 
providing significant ecosystem restoration, the return and growth of wildlife and endangered species, 
and a 64% improvement in water clarity. Photo Credit: Friends of Hanauma Bay. 82  
 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 83    
 
 
  
   
 
LIFE ON LAND 
Sustainable Development Goal 15 
Protect, restore, and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertifcation, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 
The objective of “life on land” is to maintain continued thriving 
ecosystems on land and end all threats to land degradation and 
biodiversity loss. Targets to achieve this goal address: 
• Protecting biodiversity by reducing degradation of natural habitats, ending the poaching and trafcking of endangered species, and introducing measures to reduce the impact of invasive species 
• Implementing sustainable management practices that end deforestation and combat desertifcation 
Overview 
As one of the most geographically isolated regions in the world, Hawai‘i is home to rich and diverse 
ecosystems and species. However, Hawai‘i also faces many threats to its biodiversity: as of 2015, the state's endangered and threatened species accounted for 28% of the nation's total (DLNR 2015). 
Existing and emerging threats to these native ecosystems and species include invasive species and climate change impacts.  Invasive species can aggressively overtake indigenous species and knock Hawai‘i's delicate ecosystems out of balance.  This is particularly a threat to Hawai‘i due to the state's geographic isolation.  The State's Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission has begun this endeavor to identify climate change impacts to native ecosystem through their working paper, “Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i” (Climate Change Mitigation 
and Adaptation Commission 2021). 
The Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture, Hawai‘i Invasive Species Council, Hawai‘i Department of 
Land and Natural Resources, Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Hawai‘i Department of Health, the Coordinating Group on Alien Pest Species, and many partnerships with landowners, farmers, and environmental and community organizations coordinate to support Hawai‘i's biosecurity (Hawai‘i Biosecurity Plan 2016). 
Traditional practices once created a successful relationship between natural resources and culture, 
resulting in a successful, sustainable community. Integrating Native Hawaiian cultural practices and 
traditional ecological knowledge into natural resource management is critical to protecting and 
maintaining the state's biodiversity (Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance 2010). 
VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge targets include protecting 30% of w atershed 
forests by 2030 and increasing the percentage of t hreatened and 
endangered native species that are managed in Hawai‘i by 2030. 
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a commitment to p rotect 
30% of priority watersheds by 2030, and to implement t he State's 
Interagency Biosecurity Plan by 2027. 
84 EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-11 of the Hawai‘i St ate 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land-Based, Shoreline and Marine Resources Requires the protection of Hawai‘i's unique and fragile environmental resources. 
Requires the State to exercise a conservation ethic, balance activities with ecological systems, consider physical attributes of areas when designing activities or facilities, encourage beneficial and multiple use of natural resources without causing irreparable 
environmental damage, consider multiple uses in watershed areas, provided such uses 
do not detrimentally affect water quality and recharge functions, and encourage protection 
of endangered species. 
Defines the State's objectives and policies for the enhancement and preservation of 
Hawai‘i's physical environment, including scenic and natural beauty, and historic resources. 
Promotes the preservation of views and vistas to enhance the visual and aesthetic 
enjoyment of mountains, ocean, scenic landscapes, and other natural features. 
Requires protection of areas, structures, and elements that are an integral and functional 
part of Hawai‘i‘s ethnic and cultural heritage. 
Descr ibes the State's objectives and policies for improving air and surface water quality, 
promoting the proper management of natural resources, and strengthening resilience to 
the effects of disasters. 
Creates soil and water conservation district within the state and defines what actions the 
State will take to conserve those areas. 
Sets regulations related to wildlife management, including conservation, hunting, and the 
protection of wild animals. 
Arranges a fund for the State park system an d defines policies related to those parks 
and their use. 
Establishes the Invasive Species Council to study invasive species and prevent their 
spread through intervention. 
Creates a Natural Area Reserves program, identifies certain areas to be part of the 
program, and defines what will be done within the areas to protect them from 
degradation. 
Defines the actions for the State of Hawai‘i to protect plants and animals from threats and 
environmental degradation. 
Establishes the Forest Stewardship Program and Forest Stewa rdship fund, in order to 
promote the long-term management of privately- and publicly-owned forest land within the 
state. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-12 of the Hawai‘i Sta te 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Scenic, Natural Beauty, and Historic Resources 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i Sta te 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land, Air, and Water Quality 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 180: Soil and 
Water Conservation Districts 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 183D: Wildlife 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 184: State Parks and 
Recreation Areas 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 194: Invasive 
Species Council 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195: Natura l Area 
Reserves System 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195D: Conserva tion of 
Aquatic Life, Wildlife, and Land Plants 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195F: Forest 
Stewardship Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 15 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   85 
 
 
 
 
  
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan (2017) Serves as a ten year plan providing a coordinated path forward to increase support for local a griculture, protection for the environment, and safeguards for the health and lifestyle 
of Hawai‘i's people. The plan addresses Hawai‘i's most critical biosecurity gaps and 
identifies m ore than 100 policy, processes, and infrastructure actions to take by 2027. 
Hawai‘i Forest Action Plan 2016 (2016) Identifies nine priority areas for Hawai‘i’ s forests that include:  water quality a nd quantity; 
forest health, invasive species, insects and disease; wildfire; urban and c ommunity 
forestry; climate change and sea level rise; conservation of native biodiversity; h unting, 
nature-based recreation, and tourism; forest products and carbon sequestration; a nd U.S. 
tropical island state and territorial issues. 
Hawai‘i State Wildlife Action Plan (2015) This plan comprehensively reviews the status of the full range of the state’ s native 
terrestrial and aquatic species, over 10,000 of which are found nowhere else on Earth, 
and p resents strategies for long-term conservation of species and habitats. 
Hawai‘i Statewide Assessment of Forest Includes provisions prioritizing the rapid response to invasive species. 
Conditions and Trends (2010) Recommends restoring and conserving the native forest species and ecosystems by using n ative species. 
Strategic Plan for Hawai‘i's Natural Area Identifies and defines the Natural Area Reserves System's role in conservation of 
Reserves System (2008) biological ecosystems.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 -SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
Hahai no ka ua i ka 
ululā‘ au: Rains always 
follow the forest. 
Historically, Kānaka Maoli were acutely aware of the 
importance of water and 
were experts in how to 
manage water, as refected 
in this ‘Ōlelo No‘eau 
(Hawaiian proverb). 
Forests are crucial to 
groundwater recharge by 
preventing rainfall from becoming runoff into the 
ocean. Because of their role in water catchment, forests are a key 
part of upland watershed ecology. Watersheds are “an area 
of land, such as a mountain or valley, which collects rainwater 
into a common outlet,” and are approximately equivalent to the 
traditional land divisions called ahupua‘a (Hawai‘i Association of 
Watershed Partnerships 2021c). In addition to recharging 
groundwater, the forests in watersheds provide services like 
food control, recreational spaces, carbon dioxide absorption, air and water fltration, erosion control, and habitat for culturally and ecologically significant species (Hawai‘i Association of 
Watershed Partnerships 2021d). In 2003, the Hawai‘i Association 
of Watershed Partnerships was created betw een existing 
watershed partnerships and the State of Hawai‘i to coordinate 
watershed protection eforts (HAWP 2021b).  The Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships currently consists of 10 watershed partnerships comprising nearly 7 5 voluntary public 
and private partners and collectively covers over 2.2 million acres of land (Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships 
2021a). Watershed partners include landowners comprising 
among others, Kamehameha Schools, Department of H awaiian 
Home Lands, and supportive partners such as The Nature 
Conservancy, Bishop Museum, and Kupu, which contribute expertise, capacity, and/or research to the mission of protecting Hawai‘i's watersheds (LHWRP 2018, MKWA 2021, KMWP 2021). 
Being joined together under Hawai‘i Association of Watershed 
Partnerships allows for greater sharing of resources, knowledge, 
and collective advocacy power to amplify the effectiveness of 
these individual organizations and watershed partnerships. This 
scale of collaboration and multi sector partnership can serve as an 
example to work together in a kākou effort as Hawai‘i prepares to 
face future complex challenges from a changing climate. 
Photo Left: Volunteers participating in the Wai‘anae Mountains Watershed Partnership outplanting 
1,024 plants in the Wai‘anae Kai Forest Reserve on O‘ahu. Photo Credit: Yumi Miyata, Wai‘anae Mountains Watershed Partnership. 
Photo Right:  ‘Ōhi‘a Lehua growing in uplands of the Ko‘ olau Mountains Watershed on O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: Ko‘olau Mountains Watershed Partnership. 
86  Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 87  
 
 
PEACE, JUSTICE, 
AND STRONG  INSTITUTIONS 
Sustainable Development Goal 16 
Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to justice for all, and build efective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all levels 
This goal seeks to create and sustain inclusive societies with fair and just institutions at all levels. Targets relating to this goal include: • Ending violence, abuse, and mistreatment of people everywhere by promoting the rule of law at national and international levels 
• Promoting equality through inclusive and representative decision making 
• Establishing accountable and transparent institutions 
Overview 
Hawai‘i has the highest percentage of mixed-race people in the United States, making up 
about 25% of Hawai‘i's population. However, prejudice and injustice against minorities and immigrant communities such as African Americans and Micronesians, among others, still exists 
(Velasquez-Manoff 2019).  As discussed under SDG 3, low-income households, Native 
Hawaiians, a nd Micronesians face unequal health impacts and health insurance coverage 
compared to h igher income and other racial and ethnic groups in the state.  As previously 
discussed under SDG 4 educational disparities were also highlighted between between racial 
and socioeconomic groups. Similarly, SDG 5 d iscussed the gender-based inequalities that 
Native Hawaiian women face.  Finally, as discussed u nder SDG 10, there are opportunities for 
increasing equality in the state. Thus, achievements in the o ther SDGs would likely positively 
impact SDG 16. 
The COVID-19 global pandemic and movements demanding racial justice and equality in 2020 
have reinvigorated calls for justice.  The University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa's Truth, Racial Healing, and Transformation (TRHT) Campus Center team was recognized on a national platform to highlight its work to tackle historical and contemporary effects of racism in September 2020 (UH News 2020b). 
88 Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 16 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives 
and Policies for the Economy 
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-24 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-
Cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal Well-Being 
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-25 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—Culture 
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 92: Public 
Proceedings and Records Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §8-16: Peace Day 
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil 
Rights Commission Sets goals to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of 
Hawai‘i's population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures. 
Sets objectives to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of  
 
 
 every i ndividual a nd assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and other 
public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in society. 
Includes provisions for the enhancement of cultural identities, traditions, values, and arts 
of Hawai‘i's people. 
Supports sharing the knowledge and understand ing of Hawai‘i's history and heritage. 
Supports activities that promote cultural values, e ncouraging increased awareness of 
the impact of actions on Hawaiian culture, and promoting strong relationships between 
Hawai‘i's people and visitors. 
The formation and conduct of public policy—th e discussions, deliberations, decisions, 
and action of governmental agencies—shall be conducted as openly as possible. Recognizes September 21 of every year as “Peace Day” in order to promote peace 
programs, improve international relations, and increase educational awareness of 
peace. 
Prevents discrimination on the basis of race,  color, religion, age, sex, including gender 
identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or disability in employment, housing, public accommodations, or access to services 
receiving state financial assistance. 
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Reports (2020) 
University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 2015-2021 (2018) Annual reports on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong state civil rights laws by rebuilding 
capacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for state civil rights law enforcement. 
Includes provisions to prepare more Native Hawaiians to assume leadership roles within 
the University of Hawai‘i and the community. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 89 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
Moloka‘i is estimated to 
have supported a population 
of 10,500 people prior to 
European contact (SFCA 
2000). Today the island 
is home to approximately 
6,275 people, but the 
systems that once supported 
such a population size 
have been degraded by the 
impacts of climate change, 
land development, and colonization (U.S. Census 
Bureau 2019 a,b,c). ‘Āina Momona is a Native Hawaiian nonproft on Moloka‘i 
dedicated to rebuilding this community resilience through 
ancestral solutions and achieving environmental health and sustainability through four pillars: land, water, food, and 
restorative social justice. They are based at the Keawanui 
Fishpond and Cultural Learning Site where they manage the 
55-acre loko i‘a and 8 acres of agricultural land, both of which 
face intense erosion, groundwater depletion, and invasive species 
threats. With support from the Ceres Trust, the Conservation 
Fund, and the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric 
Administration (NOAA), their team of community members work to revitalize the land and restore traditional food systems; and, in partnership with Kamehameha Schools, they will be 
extending this stewardship and restoration to the overall Ka‘amola 
ahupua‘a. Current work focuses on stabilizing the soil and 
sheltering the Cultural Learning Site and loko i‘a against climate 
change-induced storms and winds. To that end, ‘Āina Momona is 
collaborating with the Māla Kalu‘ulu Cooperative to incorporate 
agroforestry on site with native species to restore traditional food systems, ensure ground water retention, and mitigate erosion. Their overall aim is to create self-determination opportunities for Moloka‘i residents while also creating a scalable model for community-led restoration for other areas similarly impacted by climate change, and to restore the Ka‘amola ahupua‘a to an ‘āina momona again. 
Photo Left: Keawanui fishpond of the island of Moloka‘i.  Photo Credit: ‘Āina Momona. 
Photo Right:  Keawanui fishpond of the island of Moloka‘i. Photo Credit: Mickey Pauole. 
90  Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 91  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTNERSHIPS 
Sustainable Development Goal 17 
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global 
partnership for sustainable development 
This goal recognizes partnerships as a means of implementation for 
sustainable development and includes targets that address bolstering multi-stakeholder partnerships that share knowledge, expertise, and technology as well as hold themselves accountable. 
Overview 
The ultimate success of Hawai‘i's sustainability actions will rely on effective collaboration 
across organizations. Currently, many partnerships are already tackling issues related to the 
SDGs discussed in this plan. These include (but are not limited to) the Statewide Sustainability 
Program; the State Ofce of Planning; County Planning Departments; County Climate and 
Sustainability Ofces; Coastal Zone Management network; the Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, the Aloha+ Challenge; and the Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy. 
The COVID-19 global pandemic has brought more clarity to issues that Hawai‘i can work on, 
such as inequality and an economy over-reliant on tourism, and provides a chance for a “new 
normal” to develop as the state recovers from the pandemic. There is a unique opportunity 
to engage with partners across government, nonprofts, the private sector, educational 
institutions, and the public to advance sustainability in the coming years. 
Partnerships are a key component of several state policies and programs. 
92 VOLUNTARY 
INITIATIVES The Aloha+ Challenge serves as an initiative to enable public-private partnerships to also 
achieve Hawai‘i's sustainability goals. 
Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 17 
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES 
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-6 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-108 of 
the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines and Principles to Promote Sustainability 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 226-Part 
II of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Planning Coordination & Implementation 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2(b)(9): 
Office of Planning Responsibilities; 
Sustainability and Climate Adaptation Planning and Coordination 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes 
§225M-8: Statewide Sustainability Branch 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-3: 
Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission Details provisions for achieving full employment and economic growth including promoting 
Hawai‘i as an attractive market for investment, penetrating new markets for Hawai‘i's products and services, and fostering cooperation between government and private sectors in developing employment and economic growth. 
Requires policy that emphasizes that “everyone, including individuals, families, 
communities, businesses, and government, has the responsibility for achieving a sustainable Hawai‘i.” 
Establishes a statewide planning system to coordinate and guide all major state and 
county activities as well as to implement the overall goals, objectives, policies, and priority guidelines from the Hawai‘i State Planning Act. 
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to develop, monitor, and evaluate 
strategic climate adaptation plans and actionable policy recommendations for the state and counties addressing expected statewide climate change impacts and provide planning and policy guidance and assistance to state and county agencies regarding climate change and sustainability. 
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to develop, organize, and promote 
policies and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and climate policies and goals. 
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to identify, evaluate, and make 
recommendations regarding proposed legislation, regulatory changes, or policy 
modifications to the governor, the legislature, government agencies, private entities, and other bodies for the purpose of encouraging activities that best sustain, protect, and enhance the quality of the environment, economy, and community for the present and 
future benefit of the people of Hawai‘i. 
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Climate Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, which is administratively attached to the Department of Land and Natural Resources. Coordination of this advisory commission is headed jointly by two co-chairs: the Chairperson of the Board of Land and Natural Resources and the Director of the State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning, or their designees. 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: Ten Year Measurement Update 2008-2017 (2018) Provides an informal update includes a comp ilation, review and analysis of available 
metrics originally established by the 2008 version of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, along with additional recommendations developed by the Office of Planning. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||   93 
    
 
 
 
   
 Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: Charting Serves as the revised and updated version of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, 
a Course for the Decade of Action (2021) provides additional recommendations to achieve within the 2020-2030 decade. 
Serves as the State's climate and sustainability strategic action plan.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 —SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I 
According to a study by 
Gallup, social gathering 
places are the top driver of people's attachment to their community (Knight 
Foundation 2010). While 
perhaps an intuitive 
conclusion, it reinforces the importance of fostering connection through placemaking and points to one way Hawai‘i's strong social ties can be maintained as communities grow and change over the coming decade. In Ho‘olehua, Moloka‘i, the Lanikeha Community Center is the only large facility available for such social gatherings, making it an 
especially valued asset for the community. Originally procured by 
the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance  for its kitchen to assist 
farmers in created value-added products, repeat ed interest led to 
it also becoming a focal location for community events: hālau hula, policy workshops for the community, weddings, a Kūpuna Program, and school fairs are just a sample of the diverse events that have 
been held there. The center was also renovated in 201 7 through a 
State grant t o better meet community needs, adding features like a 
new stage, entertainment and sound systems, an upgraded certified kitchen, and solar panels (Pactol 2018). With its titular focus on 
farmers, the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance dedicates 
much work to assisting them in increasing their economic stability and market reach, but its eforts have since grown to include the community at large, and the center mirrors this broader mission. Indeed, the Lanikeha Community Center has helped build new bridges and inspired conversations about how to synergize the 
excellent work being done by Moloka‘i's many organizations. The 
COVID-19 global pandemic brought further opportunity to build 
this network to fill gaps in the community. Since the pandemic 
began, Lanikeha Community Center has hosted events such as toy 
giveaways, food distributions, and a monthly farmer's market not 
only lessening economic impacts but also bufering s ome of the 
pandemic's social disruptions and helping the community remain 
connected. Ultimately, the Lanikeha Community Center is both 
reflective of and nurtures community members' deep commitment 
to their home, and it is positioned—physic ally and fguratively—to 
become anything the community needs. 
Photo left: Lanikeha Community Center and volunteers from the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance 
supporting their community-based COVID-19 relief program to distribute food, produce, hot meals, 
supplies ( masks, sanitizers, etc.), and certificates for drugstore/prescription purchases in Moloka‘i. Photo 
Credit: The M oloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. 
Photo Right: A farm in Moloka‘i from a farmer participating in the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. 
Photo Credit: The Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. 94  Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 95   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 
Hawai‘i has the opportunity to make signifcant progress toward sustainability over this decade, building on 
the momentum of the past decade. Public engagement on this plan update identifed climate action as the top 
sustainability priority over the next 5- and 10-year periods. 2021–2030 
This section presents recommended actions over this decade, 
based on an assessment of: 
Anticipated readiness Sense of urgency, as 
for action, based on the identifed through 
existence of at least some public and stakeholder 
of these commitments: engagement 
• The State of Hawai‘i has an 
existing sustainability target codifed in law. 
• Existing state-mandated 
policies or government policies are in place to implement actions. 
• There is a dedicated state 
strategic plan that defnes requirements for making progress toward the goal Potential to address Multiple SDGs 
important themes identifed addressed 
through public engagement, including: 
• Equity is either directly 
or indirectly addressed by implementation of the action. 
• The action area is consistent 
with Native Hawaiian and local values, including: 
– Intergenerational equity 
– Explicit honoring and 
protection of native 
practices (e.g., gathering) 
– Use what you have before 
you build new 
• Partnership opportunities 
exist for collaborating to secure funding and implement actions. 
• The action area will beneft 
local residents. 
Overall, this plan identifies eight focus areas for this decade, each of which includes specific strategies and 
examples of actions that can be taken to advance the State's environmental, social, and economic sustainability 
objectives. The strategies and actions presented in this section draw from existing strategic plans, laws, policies, and input from public and stakeholder engagement. Some actions can be addressed or begun 
immediately over the next five years; others build upon the five-year actions or include longer-term strategies 
that may begin in the second half of the decade. Finally, this list is not exhaustive but rather seeks to highlight 
and encourage the adoption of strategic actions identified through existing efforts of state agencies and other 
entities. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i Tourism Authority 
96  Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 97  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 2021–2030 Focus Area 
PROMOTE A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC RECOVERY 
LOCAL AGRICULTURE 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-4; Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205; the Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy; and the Hawai‘i Tourism Authority's Strategic Plan. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 1 
Support farmer 
livelihoods 
Encourage the development of 
regional food processing and packaging facilities and food hubs across all islands to support local agriculture distribution. 
Work with farmers to address 
barriers such as access to retention o f agricultural land, 
adoption of innovative technologies, affordable 
agricultural workforce housing, and 
irrigation needs. 
Enhance the availability of 
financing to help farmers through mechanisms such as the livestock revitalization program and agricultural loan program. 
Develop and distribute locally-
relevant information and data that will help agricultural operators make informed business decisions. 
Provide new and existing farmers 
with access to agricultural land, irrigation water, capital investments, training, and processing/packaging facilities. 
Protect lands with a high capacity 
for intensive cultivation of food b y 
minimizing land prices or rents based on non-agricultural use. 
Expand public outreach and grants 
to farmers, incentivizing the pivot to different business strategies. 
98 STRATEGY 2 
Support local markets 
for locally grown food 
Encourage local food purchases for state-run programs including schools, universities, colleges, and prisons through a Farm-to-State Program. 
Support consumer education programs 
that promote local farm recognition and inform on the benefits of buying local farm products (nutritional, economics, social, cultural). 
Expand and improve branding and 
labeling programs to identify local foods. 
Empower and inform agricultural 
producers what minimum quality, quantity, and timeliness is required to be able to sell local foods in hotels and local markets. 
Support efforts that encourage the 
visitor industry to purchase local products and locally grown food whenever appropriate to reduce dependence on imports and increase local economic activity. 
Support local food marketing programs 
to focus on people, place and products throughout the Hawaiian Islands. 
Increase agricultural education within 
secondary schools, vocational schools, 
and colleges. 
Develop a seafood hatchery and new 
aquaculture farm for local consumption and export. 
Explore and invest in value-added 
products from Hawai‘i farms and support and educate farmers on promotional opportunities to create a Hawai‘i marketplace of products. 
Elevate the need for agricultural 
planning and investment to meet local food security targets. 
STRATEGY 3 
Promote sustainable & 
resilient farmland, 
practices, and 
infrastructure 
Encourage sustainable crop management 
practices (e.g., organic farming, no till, improved manure management and sustainable irrigation practices) that may provide environmental services and co-benefits, such as protecting against soil degradation, providing GHG sequestration, increasing biodiversity and soil fertility, and 
maintaining or increasing economic production of crops and animal protein in order to meet the state's doubling of food production goals. 
Continue to support the education of Native 
Hawaiian practices and other cultural farming practices such as lo‘i farming to enhance local food productivity growth and protect Hawai‘i's environment. 
Continue to support the education of the 
genuine threats of invasive species to local farmlands and surrounding land habitats. 
Ensure consistent funding for agricultural 
infrastructure improvements, operations, and maintenance. 
Continue the State's purchase of fee 
interest for available prime agricultural 
lands before they are subject to non-
agricultural development. 
Coordinate water reuse expansion efforts with the Department of Agriculture's Agribusiness Development Corporation. 
Explore and invest in the technological 
advancement of Hawai‘i-based agriculture and food production, including indoor greenhouse growing opportunities. 
Utilize more smart and high technology to 
improve agricultural production in Hawai‘i. 
Research and study proof of concept for 
large scale protected agriculture as an alternative to conventional agricultural production. 
Expand public outreach and grants 
to farmers, incentivizing the pivot to sustainable and regenerative, and greenhouse gas sequestration agricultural business strategies. GREEN WORKFORCE 
DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATION 
This section builds on recommendations 
from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
STRATEGY 4 
Invest in green 
workforce development, 
beginning with youth 
Identify opportunities to provide 
funding for and encourage youth engagement in the green workforce. 
Incorporate green job pathways at b oth 
high school and 2-year college 
programs. 
Enlist the support of policymakers, 
educational administrators, and others to provide the facilities, resources, a nd 
incentives that nurture and enable research, innovation, and technology. 
Develop a local green job youth 
corps program that prioritizes the 
State's workforce development and 
economic diversification, while providing temporary work and training opportunities for young adults in natural resource management, agricultural development, conservation, renewable energy, or other sustainability professions. 
Cultivate and sustain interest in youth 
and innovation, farm mentorship and other agricultural-related programs t o 
promote vocational interest in agriculture, aquaponics, and robotics.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
Development Strategy, Aloha+ 
Challenge, and University of 
Hawai‘i Strategic Directions. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 5 
Foster the development 
of jobs that can sustain 
families financially 
Encourage innovation, entrepreneurship, 
and small business development. 
Provide Hawai‘i small business and 
entrepreneurial support and enhance 
skill-building opportunities and w orkforce 
retraining. 
Strengthen existing partnerships and 
form new ones to enhance high quality job creation in Hawai‘i. 
Provide workers with skills to adapt to 
job changes, navigate between careers, and create an adaptive workforce. 
Develop Hawai‘i's vulnerable workforce 
to include adaptive skills desirable in the 21st century job environment, leading to greater adaptability, higher probability to find work, and pivot during or soon after future economic shocks. 
Develop local manufacturing periphery 
(including local creative agencies), and business to business (B2B) services. 
Increase investment opportunity for local 
manufacturing. 
Develop sustainable, resiliency-oriented 
products to be manufactured locally. 
Support business pivots, revenue diversity, product manufacturing, and sales of local products. 
Integrate circular economic principles in 
local manufacturing opportunities. 
Prioritize resources to stimulate 
development of economic clusters, and 
the competitive advantages shared and invested in locally. 
Increase digital and financial literacy 
within Hawai‘i's schools and workforce. 
Foster an ecosystem of innovation, research, education, and entrepreneurship that creates living-wage jobs and a diversified economy. DIVERSIFIED 
ECONOMY 
This section builds on 
recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy. 
STRATEGY 6 
Support diversification 
of the economy 
Develop emerging industries and 
diversify economic clusters. 
Develop creative industry 
infrastructure. 
Provide post-production creative 
industry training. 
Build a robust media and entertainment 
complex to develop the film industry. 
Strengthen vocational workforce 
training to high-paying creative industry jobs. 
Connect local creative industry artists 
to online platforms for sales and marketing. 
Empower creative industry content 
creators to market their projects. 
Grow three priority sectors: Healthcare 
(including clinical and community health), Technology (including IT and clean energy), and Skilled Trades (including sustainable agriculture, manufacturing, sustainable development, and construction). REGENERATIVE TOURISM 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy, Forest Action Plan, and Hawai‘i Tourism Authority's Strategic Plan. Recommendations were also 
identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 7 
Reduce the 
environmental footprint 
of the tourism industry 
Identify the impacts of and best practices for 
ecotourism. 
Evaluate the feasibility of a state certification 
program to provide authentic ecotourism 
opportunities while also providing for 
enhanced protection of natural and cultural 
resources. 
Assist and recognize visitor industry 
businesses that operate in an 
environmentally and socially responsible 
manner, including local food purchasing, 
waste reduction, and reducing petroleum-
based energy, and water use. 
Launch a collaborative tourism-based environmental sustainability program with natural resource partner s to mitigate visitor 
impacts and support responsible tourism initiatives. 
Protect and enhance recognition of Hawai‘i 
as a green destination. 
Incentivize and facilitate a shift to a 
regenerative visitor industry that has a 
smaller footprint and that aims to sustain and 
improve the quality of life for Hawai‘i 
residents. 
Mitigate impacts of tourism from a 
community standpoint through conducting the destination manageme nt planning 
process statewide. 
Promote Hawai‘i’s sustainability, natural 
resources, local agriculture, and climate-resilience through Hawai‘i tourism marketing and branding. 
Enable Hawai‘i tourism to contribute to the 
regeneration of Hawai‘i’s natural beauty, 
resources, and unique culture. 
Develop a framework for a comprehensive 
sea level adaptation and resilience plan for the Waikīkī Special District. STRATEGY 8 
Support native 
Hawaiian culture & 
reduce impacts of the 
tourism industry to 
local communities 
Monitor local infrastructure to support resident and visitor activity, 
assist counties in building capacity to service international flights, provide eco- and green tourism opportunities in balance with community input. 
Convene community, government, 
and industry networks to support destination management and increase collaboration in responding t o negative tourism 
impacts on H awai‘i's communities. 
Provide members of the 
visitor industry with access to comprehensive Hawaiian c ultural 
training, curriculum, and programming. 
Enhance the visitor experience with 
programs that create and nurture a Hawaiian sense of place. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update || 99  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
  
 
 2021–2030 Focus Area 
REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
GHG EMISSIONS 
This section builds on recommendations from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including Hawai‘i Revised 
Statutes §225P-4 and §225P-5, and the Carbon Offset Feasibility 
Report. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 9 STRATEGY 10 
Measure, manage, and plan Incorporate climate change 
for GHG emission reduction planning into decision-
making processes 
Develop a Climate Action Plan to Screen projects over a particular size 
meet the State's Zero Emissions Clean for impact on climate change mitigation 
Economy Target by 2045, using or achievement of other SDGs. 
Science Based Targets and the IPCC 
Consider the impact of agency plans, reports. 
decisions, and strategies on the S tate's 
Require emission reductions by setting ability to achieve its climate and 
a more stringent post-2020 sustainability goals—including the 
sector-wide cap. State's ability to achieve the Zero 
Emissions Clean Economy Target by 
Continue to measure GHG emissions 2045—weighed appropriately against 
through periodic updates of the state's their primary purpose.
GHG inventory. 
Give consideration to climate change 
Identify types of agricultural and planning in land use planning. 
aquacultural practices, public land and 
marine use policies, and on-farm Investigate the possibility of 
managing practices that would provide establishing a fund to support and 
greenhouse gas benefits and result in incentivize voluntary greenhouse 
tangible economic benefits to gas reduction measures and set 
agricultural and aquacultural funding criteria that will make the m ost 
operations. economic sense of the state (including from: voluntary contributions 
Establish short-term and long-term from individuals or organizations, tax 
benchmarks that would indicate revenue, utility ratepayer revenue, or 
how effectively agricultural and financial institutions). 
aquacultural activities have helped to reach the State's Zero Emission Clean Economy Target by 2045. 
Explore establishing net-zero GHG goals for all projects, including construction and infrastructure projects, to meet Hawai‘i's Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target by 
2045. 
Encourage smart-growth strategies to 
foster urban infill development and re-development to significantly reduce the number of vehicular trips taken, reduce traffic and congestion, and GHG emissions. 
100 CLEAN & EFFICIENT ENERGY 
These strategies build upon recommendations from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy, HSEO Annual 
Reports, the Water Resource Protection Plan, and the O‘ahu Resilience 
Strategy. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 12 STRATEGY 11 
Promote energy Continue to invest in the 
conservation and efficiency deployment of clean 
through outreach, energy technologies to 
communication, and reduce reliance on fossil 
community and public fuels 
engagement 
Advance the 1-year, 2-year, and 5-year 
understanding of energy resources by Improve the awareness and 
actions identified in the 2020 Hawai‘i State 
investing in ongoing community-based Energy Office (HSEO) Annual Report on 
energy education. energy efficiency, clean transportation, 
energy assurance and resiliency, and 
Develop a clean energy public renewable energy deployment. 
education plan and curriculum in coordination with institutions of public Align policies and processes to enable 
education. adoption of more renewable energy sources and accelerate the adoption of
Create incentives for energy-efficient storage.
behavior. 
Enable grid improvements and 
Study how energy conservation can modernization toward greater 
be used as an incentive for, and interconnection of renewable resources. 
complement to, water conservation. 
Work on innovative clean energy initiatives (for example, biofuels, hydrogen, microgrids, working with community-friendly developers). 
Expand micro-gridding, grid planning, 
cluster-based energy, and smart meters 
throughout the state. 
Increase renewable energy installations through energy performance contracts. 
Increase solar and storage battery projects. 
Increase statewide rooftop photovoltaic installation. 
Encourage and expand zero emissions 
vehicle charging in public areas, 
commercial areas, workplaces, households, and apartment dwellings. 
Improve access to energy efficiency, 
renewable energy, and zero emissions 
vehicle charging options for rental units and condos. 
Inspire and transform Hawai‘i's clean 
energy future and expand the use of hydrogen fuel cell technology. 
Educate the general public on the benefits 
of hydrogen fuel cell technology. Implement expanded infrastructure for 
ZEVs, including energy storage and 
increasing the availability of electric 
charging and hydrogen fueling stations. 
Adopt a plan for statewide adoption o f 
ZEVs. 
Incorporate ZEVs into State and 
County government fleet. Promote safe, connected multimodal 
transportation options focusing on 
equitable opportunities to walk, bike, and rely on other forms of active transportation to connect to transit. 
Develop bike and pedestrian pathway networks statewide to increase multimodal connectivity.  
Create transportation hubs designed 
to facilitate transfer from one mode of 
transportation to other modes of 
transportation while enhancing rider 
comfort and safety. 
Expand public transportation systems 
to facilitate home to work commuting 
in areas with the greatest economic 
need. Modernize transportation planning 
and projects to: enhance equity for all communities, reduce transportation costs to residents, minimize injuries 
and fatalities, improve public health and quality of life, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Use travel demand forecasting and 
other tools to assess future road 
capacities and the effectiveness of 
alternative modes of travel. 
Promote alternative transportation 
options in the development of new 
communities and infrastructure. Advance sustainable purchasing 
practices for state, county, and commercial procurement. 
Use financial mechanisms to 
incentivize w aste reduction. 
Update the Department of Health (DOH) H ealth Code as needed to 
increase the u se of reusables in food 
service. 
Develop strategies to encourage plastic 
reduction and reuse in the food service industry, such as reusable container incentive programs for customers. 
Develop recommendations for the 
implementation of a uniform, statewide policy for single-use plastics such as plastic bags and polystyrene foam containers that can replace existing county ordinances and p rovide 
businesses with laws that are consistent throughout the state. 
Study and develop recommendations 
to implement extended producer responsibility to address solid waste, including bulky items and plastic packaging. 
Review and update existing legislation 
to achieve statewide waste reduction goals. 
Establish a 5-year state-facilitated 
education campaign about waste reduction. Reduce waste through encouraging source reduction and increased use of repairing, recycling, and composting services for residential, 
commercial, governmental, and industrial waste. 
Accelerate regional composting 
statewide. 
Require owners and managers of 
multi-family dwellings and multi-
tenant commercial buildings to 
provide recycling services. 
Comply with laws requiring 
recycling in state-owned facilities. 
Expand opportunities for methane 
capture and reuse at landfills, waste-to-energy facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, and anaerobic digesters. 
Evaluate recycling opportunities for 
large volume and hazardous waste streams, such as photo-voltaic solar 
panels and lithium-ion batteries from electric vehicles. 
Update the State's Integrated Solid Waste Management Plan. 
Review and update existing 
legislation to achieve statewide diversion goals. WASTE MANAGEMENT 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, 
policies, and strategic action plans, including the Department of Health's 
Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report, County of Hawai‘i's 
Climate Action Plan, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan Ten Year 
Measurement Report, and the O‘ahu Resilience Strategy. Recommendations 
were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. SUSTAINABLE 
TRANSPORTATION 
STRATEGY 13 
Expand the adoption of 
zero emission vehicles 
(ZEVs) STRATEGY 14 
Promote alternative 
modes of transportation STRATEGY 15 
Reduce the generation 
of waste, including 
plastic w aste STRATEGY 16 
Increase diversion of 
waste through 
recycling, reuse, and 
composting These strategies build upon existing laws, policies, and strategic action 
plans, including Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-9, the Honolulu Annual Sustainability Report, and the Hawai‘i County Climate Action Plan. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update   ||   101 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
   
 
 
 2021–2030 Focus Area 
IMPROVE CLIMATE RESILIENCE 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including the Department of Health-Hazard 
Evaluation and Emergency Response Office Memorandum on Risks of Sea Level Rise and Increased  Flooding on Known Chemical 
Contamination in Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Climate Change Adaptation Priority Guidelines, Forest Action Plan, O‘ahu Resilience Strategy, Ocean Resources Management Plan, and the Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 17 
Integrate climate change 
adaptation and resilience 
considerations into 
planning and 
implementation 
Improve interagency and intragovernmental 
coordination to assess and address impacts 
from sea level rise, flooding, drought, heat, 
wildfire, and other climate-related hazards. 
Inventory and analyze critical infrastructure assets threatened by climate-related hazards (e.g., those along shoreline 
threatened by chronic and episodic coastal 
hazards and future sea level rise 
projections). 
Investigate the financial risk to /exposure of 
the state associated with climate change. 
Study the impacts of sea level rise 
projections on cultural and archeological 
resources, such as gathering sites, 
fishponds or fish traps (loko i‘a), places of 
worship and shrines (heiau), and petroglyphs (ki‘i pohaku). 
Coordinate across agencies with 
operational responsibilities over state 
facilities to: identify existing and planned 
facilities that are vulnerable to climate-
related hazards; assess options to increase 
the resilience of those facilities; and report 
on progress made in implementing adaptation strategies in future plans, programs, and capital improvement needs 
and decisions. 
Develop a statewide Climate Adaptation 
and Resilience Implementation Plan. 
Incorporate regional managed retreat or strategic relocation analysis into planning. 
Study the feasibility of and prioritize nature-
based solutions (e.g., on Hawai‘i's high 
energy shorelines to manage and mitigate 
erosion). 
Include the increased and changing risks of 
chemical contamination due to sea level 
rise and increased flooding from climate 
change in future updates to the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability Plan and 2017 Sea 
Level Rise Vulnerabilit y and Adaptation 
Report, and incorporate efforts to mitigate 
risks in state, county, and local planning. 
102 STRATEGY 18 
Assess and communicate 
the impacts of climate 
change to residents, 
businesses, and 
communities most likely 
to be impacted 
Develop a network of community 
resilience hubs. 
Engage state and county agencies, 
private sector, and nonprofit 
organizations in identifying the most critical climate risks facing the state. 
Invest in the continued monitoring and research on the impacts of weather hazards under climate change on the 
state and mitigation measures. 
Increase public awareness about 
climate risks facing the state, counties, 
and the public and actions they can take individually to increase their 
resilience and minimize negative impacts. STRATEGY 19 
Implement actions that 
improve the state's 
resilience to climate 
change 
Establish an emergency food supply and storage strategy. 
Identify and select adaptation 
strategies (e.g., infrastructure 
investments, policy changes) that increase Hawai‘i's resilience while upholding the goals of doing so equitably (e.g., using an equity lens framework) and in line with Native Hawaiian, Traditional Ecological Knowledge, and local values. 
Articulate the business case for 
investments in resilience strategies 
(estimating costs of inaction 
as well as financial benefits of investments) to ensure reliable energy, transportation fuel, and other 
systems. 
Seek federal funding to increase the 
resilience of Hawai‘i's infrastructure and other assets (through implementation of strategies to 
protect, accommodate, and/or 
relocate). STRATEGY 20 
Increase the resilience of 
vulnerable populations 
to the impacts of climate 
change and other shocks 
and stressors 
Develop a Social Vulnerability Index to 
identify populations most at risk. 
Apply the Social Vulnerability Index (SVI) to develop climate adaptation strategies that are targeted to 
addressing vulnerabilities. 
Encourage community involvement and 
resilience by working with community members, matching community partners with funders, and initiating conversations between communities and the government.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
2021–2030 Focus Area 
ADVANCE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES 
This section draws from strategies identified in the priorities of the State's Climate Commission 
and recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including  the Aloha+ Challenge, Carbon Offset Feasibility Report, City and County of Honolulu General Plan, EPA Greening America's Communities: Greening Iwilei and 
Kapalama, O‘ahu Resilience Strategy, State of Hawai‘i Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, and the State of Hawai‘i Strategic Plan for Transit-Oriented Development. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 21 
Advance smart growth 
initiatives 
and multimodal 
transportation systems 
Promote human-powered 
transportation, multimodal systems, 
and connectivity throughout the state. 
Implement the Department of 
Transportation's Statewide 
Pedestrian Master Plan. 
Increase the urban tree canopy and 
increase dedicated bike lane miles. 
Integrate state and county 
transit-oriented development and smart growth measures in creating sustainable, livable communities. 
Increase public availability of outdoor 
spaces and provide areas where 
people can interact with nature and 
each other and reduce urban heat 
island effects. 
Advance multimodal transportation 
systems into the land use planning of new communitie s and redevelopment 
of existing communities. STRATEGY 22 
Advance sustainability in 
school and university 
operations 
Adopt ZEVs in school fleets (e.g., 
schoolbuses), where feasible. 
Expand more farm-to-school 
opportunities, including the ‘aina pono program. 
Incorporate sustainable development 
practices into educational curricula t o 
promote sustainability through individual actions as well as community-wide initiatives. 
Plan and implement strategies to 
achieve net-zero energy use in schools  and universitie s by 2035. 
Establish a Su stainability Coordinator 
position for the Department of Education to support and incorporate sustainable practices in K-12 public schools and plan for meeting the net-zero energy goal in schools. 
Reduce waste through encouraging 
source reduction and increased use o f 
repairing, reuse, recycling, and composting services in schools and universities statewide. STRATEGY 23 
Integrate sustainable design principles into new and 
existing buildings 
Utilize and fund integration of efficiency 
and green building requirements for new construction and major renovation projects. 
Explore further use of building codes and standards to improve and direct efficiencies among the existing and new infrastructure of the State of Hawai‘i.  
Strengthen Hurricane Sheltering to highest 
degree possible to withstand Category 5 hurricanes. 
Establish a homeowners retrofit grant 
program for severe storm events. 
Ensure statewide resilient emergency 
power generation. 
Incentivize the use of green roofs. Study and implement green infrastructure 
design guidelines and policies. 
Support and expand on-site rainwater 
harvesting and stormwater management. 
Expand and integrate permeable pavement 
and concrete opportunities. 
Consider ecoblock/ecobuilding 
development to promote decentralized water and sustainable energy to reduce the 
development‘s carbon and water footprints. 
Consider underground cistern/detention 
infiltration chambers and above ground cisterns to collect and store rooftop rainfall and storm water runoff for water reuse strategies. 
Consider the adoption of a “one water 
approach” to provide integrated planning and implementation approach to managing finite water resources for long-term resilience and reliability, meeting both community and ecosystem needs. 
Utilize green building performance tracking 
and metrics for building retrofits and consider impacts to building occupant health. Collaborate with design professionals, developers, and contractors to identify synergistic sustainability and greenhouse gas emission reduction strategies that meet 
larger State and County goals while supporting affordability and workforce development. 
Establish partnerships and capital to build, 
maintain, and enhance infrastructure and 
fund the development of sustainable housing. 
Encourage innovative residential 
developments which result in: lower cost, 
the sustainable use of resources, more efficient use of land and infrastructure, greater convenience and privacy, and a distinct community identity. 
Update building codes and standards 
in a timely manner to increase clean energy 
and energy efficiency, water reuse and 
reclamation, and material resource efficiency among existing and new infrastructure in the State of Hawai‘i. 
Prioritize and fund the implementation and 
adoption of standards such as LEED
® and 
ENERGY STAR®, to the extent that they 
support increased efficiency of buildings within the state. 
Continue to explore and support 
low-carbon building products to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions in building 
materials. 
Continue to encourage development within 
existing urban centers to reduce vehicle 
miles traveled, reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, promote transit-oriented 
development planning efforts, and increase the efficient use of infrastructure to create 
distinct communities throughout Hawai‘i. 
Emphasize existing building reuse and 
adaptation of Hawai‘i‘s extensive existing building stock to limit the embodied carbon 
impact of new construction. 
103 Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update ||  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
2021–2030 Focus Area 
ADVANCE EQUITY 
ACCESS TO RESOURCES 
Actions in this section build on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Broadband Strategic Plan, Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study, Housing Functional Plan, and the State of Hawai‘i 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 24 
Strengthen broadband 
access to support digital 
learning and online 
solutions in rural areas 
Invest in programs that will provide 
students with digital content via tablets, 
laptops and other mobile devices. 
Provide free high-speed Internet 
services in public areas in and around all 
state buildings, public libraries, and 
schools. 
Enable rapid introduction of community 
broadband in areas that do not have effective broadband service. 
Identify barriers to the adoption of broadband and information technology 
services through collection of public and 
private sector data, including outreach 
survey activities. 
Expand broadband and increase remote 
work opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from commuting, and address equity for rural communities and 
other broadband-dependent services. 
Maintain a broadband mapping service to identify underserved communities. 
Develop and implement provider and consumer incentives accordingly for last-mile installation or service subscription to encourage adoption and foster provision of affordable services in strategic areas. 
Transition Hawai‘i's government toward more digital systems. 
Invest in and improve existing cable landing infrastructure. 
Grow the Statewide Geographic Information Systems Program. 
Support and adopt the goals set forth in the Digital Equity Declaration for Hawai‘i 
adopted by the state's Broadband Hui. 
Expand strategic broadband infrastructure to build a robust, resilient 
network including government-owned, 
non-profit or cooperative networks to 
enable all Hawai‘i residents to access 
the global internet. 
104 STRATEGY 25 
Continue to improve 
economic and social 
sustainability of 
individuals through 
access to affordable 
housing 
Implement strategies identified in the 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan and the Hawai‘i State Functional Plan on Housing. 
Implement alternative financing 
mechanisms to support affordable housing, such as mixed-use developments. 
Establish public-private partnerships to 
fund the development of sustainable housing. 
Increase affordable housing 
opportunities for households up to 140% of the AMI. 
Increase and sustain the supply of 
permanent rental housing that is affordable and accessible to Hawai‘i residents, particularly those with incomes at or below 80% AMI. 
Support Hawaiian Home Lands 
Homesteading programs. 
STRATEGY 26 
Continue to implement 
strategies that reduce 
homelessness in Hawai‘i 
to enhance livelihoods 
Work to reduce current homelessness by supporting rapid rehousing programs t hat provide equitable 
financial a ssistance to help people 
access safe housing. 
Combat future homelessness by 
identifying persons at risk and 
connecting them with homelessness prevention programs such as supportive s ervices, mediation in 
housing court,  and rent subsidies. 
Support permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless individuals experiencing the longest episodes of homelessness. 
Review and implement best practices 
from programs such Kahauiki Village (O‘ahu), Huliau (Maui) or Kealalula at Pua Loke (Kaua‘i) that combine low-cost housing models with on-site supportive services, and a specific preference for households transitioning out of homelessness. GENDER 
EQUITY 
This section builds on recommendations  
from existing laws, policies, and strategic 
action plans, including the Feminist 
Economic Recovery Plan. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 27 
Continue to advance 
opportunities for all, 
regardless of gender 
Boost childcare, eldercare, and 
education, and offer support for women whose jobs and family roles may have been especially hurt by the COVID-19 global pandemic. 
Increase sustainable employment 
opportunities for all, regardless of gender identification. 
Increase gender diversity across state, 
local, and private sector leadership positions. 
Increase awareness of the gender 
spectrum across all levels of government. 
Ensure the representation of women, 
youth, LGBTQ+ persons, and immigrants within all levels of decision-
making. 2021–2030 Focus Area 
INSTITUTIONALIZE SUSTAINABILITY 
Continue to leverage government 
public-private partnerships to advance sustainable development goals. 
Increase coordination across government, nonprofits, the private sector, and communities to address and implement the SDGs. 
Fund and staff the State Sustainability 
Program and other statewide and county coordinating programs responsible for implementing the SDGs. Update portions of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act to reflect current priorities 
for sustainability and climate change adaptation (e.g., focus on the update and modernization of the agriculture industry), including those identified in this plan. 
Update the State Functional 
Plans that were not recently updated 
during the 21st century, to align with climate change and sustainability targets and better reflect the current 
state of planning needs, with a  particular focus on the Energy, Agriculture, Conservation, Recreation, Transportation, and Tourism Functional Plans. 
Integrate land use planning to address 
Hawai‘i's competing uses 
of land to mutually obtain local food production goals, affordable housing needs, sustainable energy goals, and conservation. 
The State Sustainability Program 
should measure the progress of these recommendations on every 5th year 
between the decennial update of 
this plan to ensure progress toward 
Hawai‘i's sustainability goals. Procure environmentally preferable and sustainable products, including recycled a nd recycled-content, bio-based, and other resource-efficient products 
and materials. 
Design and construct government buildings that meet the LEED® rating systems or another comparable state-approved, nationally recognized, and consensus-based guideline, standard, or system, except when the guideline, standard, or system interferes or conflicts with the use of the building or facility as an emergency shelter. 
Implement water and energy efficiency practices in operations to reduce waste 
and increase conservation. 
Incorporate principles of waste minimization and pollution prevention, such as 
reducing, revising, and recycling as a standard operating practice in programs, including programs for waste management in construction and demolition projects and office paper and packaging recycling programs. 
Implement strategies to work toward on-site water reclamation and develop or 
retrofit infrastructure to support water reuse in 100% of government facilities by 
2045. 
Explore further opportunities to retrofit existing structures and to design new 
structures that reduce our carbon footprint and increase the government's ability to adapt to climate change impacts. 
Maximize the use of solar on or around all state buildings and parking facilities, 
especially for new construction and major renovations. STRATEGY 28 
Invest in staff and other 
resources to coordinate 
and advance sustainability 
goals across state 
agencies and local 
governments STRATEGY 29 
Update state policies to 
reflect sustainability and 
climate change priorities STRATEGY 30 
Incorporate sustainability into government 
operations GREEN 
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS GOVERNMENT CAPACITY TO ADDRESS SUSTAINABLITY 
Strategies in this section build upon recommendations from existing 
laws, and policies. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Strategies in this section build upon recommendations from existing laws, and policies. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update   ||   105 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
    
  
  
   
   
    
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
    
   
    
    
   
 
   
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
   
 
 2021–2030 Focus Area 
PRESERVE THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT 
CLEAN WATER 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, 
and strategic action plans, including the Ocean Resources Management 
Plan, Water Resources Protection Plan, and the Water Reuse Plan.  Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 31 
Improve water quality 
through reduced 
pollution and dumping 
Work toward the 2050 cesspool 
reduction requirement and develop 
infrastructure to support the elimination of cesspools. 
Increase the shared understanding of 
green stormwater infrastructure 
among homeowners, government 
officials, practitioners, and private 
industry through continued outreach 
efforts. 
Evaluate the use of green 
infrastructure along Hawai‘i's shoreline and throughout the coastal 
zone, with the dual-benefit o f 
controlling erosion and other shoreline processes while mitigating the impacts of land-based pollution and inland flooding. 
Sponsor symposia and trainings on green infrastructure installation and 
maintenance for professionals, 
homeowners, and advocates. 
Identify adaptations needed to 
implement green infrastructure 
successfully in Hawai‘i's unique 
conditions (topography, climate, 
soils, and development patterns). 
Study the efficacy, cost, and lifespan 
of green infrastructure a nd traditional 
water management techniques 
compared to the ‘grey‘ infrastructure 
currently utilized in Hawai‘i. 
Ensure that water quality 
improvement and water reuse 
strategies are incorporated with land 
use planning. 
106 STRATEGY 32 
Support water  reuse 
strategies to conserve 
water 
Establish mandatory recycled water 
use zones within reasonable t ransport 
distances from major s ources of 
recycled water and e stablish 
incentives for developers. 
Upgrade Water Reuse regulations t o 
allow unrestricted irrigation with R -1 
recycled water and allow use  of 
municipal delivered R-1 recycled water in individual residences for 
landscape and crops irrigation. 
Allow groundwater recharge with 
recycled water for: use as a barrier against seawater intrusion, aquifer 
storage and recovery, indirect p otable 
reuse, and as a flood m itigation 
strategy. 
Mandate use of recycled water  where 
available for golf course, landscape, 
and agriculture irrigation w ithin 
designated recycled water use zones. 
Develop standards and guidelines for stormwater reclamation and reuse. 
Conduct water audits of public water 
systems to verify use and aid water providers in identifying water losses. 
Develop water shortage plans for priority water management areas. 
Upgrade water reuse regulations t o 
encourage uses of graywater w ithin a 
development parcel with a s implified 
permitting system. 
Ensure that water quality improvement and water reuse 
strategies are incorporated with land 
use planning. MARINE RESOURCES 
& ECOSYSTEMS 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Aloha+ Challenge, Forest Action Plan, 
Hawai‘i Coral Reef Strategy, Holomua: Marine 30x30 Plan, and the Ocean 
Resources Management Plan.  Recommendations were also identified 
through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 33 
Establish policies to 
protect Hawai‘i's unique 
marine ecosystems 
Protect coral reef systems by 
establishing a network of ecological-
connected marine management areas, 
informed by ecological and socio-
cultural design principles created using the best readily available science, local expert knowledge including traditional 
ecological knowledge. 
Increase education and outreach efforts to build a greater public awareness for 
responsible behavior affecting aquatic 
resources. 
Support invasive species management 
and watershed protection. STRATEGY 34 
Manage climate change 
impacts to marine 
resources 
Expand the use of sea level rise 
and land cover data in conducting stormwater assessments and modeling. 
Protect ahupua‘a that recharge freshwater supplies. 
Evaluate the use of green stormwater infrastructure along Hawai‘i's s horeline 
and throughout the coastal z one, with 
the dual benefit of c ontrolling erosion 
and other shoreline p rocesses while 
mitigating the impacts of land-based pollution and i nland flooding.       
 
  
      
      
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including the 
Forest Action Plan, Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority  Strategic Plan, 
Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper,  and the Water Resources 
Protection Plan.  Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 35 
Protect and manage watersheds 
Support long-term hydrologic monitoring programs to 
understand and document changes in watershed productivity that result from improved watershed management activities. 
Increase research and monitoring of new emerging watershed 
and forest threats and develop approaches and management 
tools for controlling and reducing impacts on watersheds w here 
found. 
Identify specific areas, regions, or watersheds to target for 
concentrated efforts and collaborate on setting priority areas f or 
watershed management with key federal, state, and c ounty 
agency partners, landowners, and stakeholders. 
Support research on the effects of climate change on 
watersheds and water resources in Hawai‘i. 
Improve collaboration among county water departments, the 
CZM Program, DOH, EPA, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), DAR, and NRCS, which have overlapping 
priorities, to jointly set future priorities, to strategically advance 
projects f or competitive grant opportunities at the local and 
national w atershed-scale conservation programs, and to 
maximize t he amount of watershed acreage being protected 
and the c onservation benefits realized. 
Improve methods for targeting and communicating with communities and the public about the importance of w atershed 
management, the threats to Hawai‘i's forests, a nd the 
community's role and contribution to improving m anagement of 
watersheds locally and across the state. 
Improve monitoring, data collection, and information sharing 
between the watershed partnerships, various private 
and public land management programs, and the ISCs to 
consolidate and collect comparable data regarding watershed and forest health, location of invasive species, management actions being taken, and impacts of land management a ctivities 
on water quality and quantity. 
Continue to implement non-point source water pollution 
management strategies to restore impaired waters and protect high quality waters from non-point source pollution. STRATEGY 36 
Continue to adopt strategies 
that protect land-based 
natural resources 
Continue to fund, manage, protect, and 
improve Hawai‘i's natural resources against climate hazards. 
Identify the adequate level of hydrologic 
and climatic data collection needed statewide to enable effective decision-making about water security. 
Improve recharge estimates to include the best available information on climate change impacts. 
Improve estimates of stream flow 
characteristics, particularly during low-flow 
conditions. 
Understand the impacts of native vs. non-
native plant species on water resources 
and watersheds by supporting research 
and long-term hydrologic monitoring programs. 
Construct new deep monitoring wells in 
critical aquifers to gather and utilize data to identify impacts from pumpage, climate, and land use changes; verify fresh water 
sustainable yields; and monitor recharge trends. 
Reduce invasive species impacts through 
implementing Hawai‘i Interagency 
Biosecurity Plan. STRATEGY 37 
Conserve working forest 
landscapes, protect 
forests from harm, and 
enhance public benefits 
from trees and forests 
Restore and conserve native forest species and ecosystems by using native species where possible and discouraging the use of potentially invasive species. 
Ensure that local and statewide climate 
change and drought plans, policy, and initiatives address wildfire. 
Monitor resource vulnerability to 
climate change through improved data collection and refinement of models that are specific to Hawai‘i. 
Investigate and pursue opportunities 
for obtaining certification of  sustainable 
production and harvest p ractices for 
common market species. 
Complete comprehensive management 
plans for all state forest reserves. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update || 107 2021–2030 Focus Area 
PERPETUATE TRADITIONAL 
ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE AND VALUES 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans. Recommendations were 
also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
STRATEGY 38 
Ground climate and 
sustainability strategies 
in our cultural 
foundation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Foster opportunities to recommit to 
traditional practices and principles as well as transmit and generate new 
cultural knowledge and practices to inform sustainability strategies. 
Incorporate Native Hawaiian and 
Traditional Ecological Knowledge and practices in the planning for Hawai‘i's 
sustainability and the impacts of 
climate change. 
Continue to require certain board a nd 
commission members to attend a n 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs-sponsored 
training course to ensure individuals 
are familiar with their legal 
responsibilities regarding Native Hawaiian rights and the public trust doctrine. 
Prepare more Native Hawaiians to 
assume leadership roles within the community and our institutions. 
Elevate the position of Hawaiian 
cultural experts to develop standards 
and practices. 
Support Native Hawaiian and other 
cultural festivals and events that 
perpetuate Hawai‘i's island culture and 
communities. 
Support programs that help to 
revitalize and normalize ‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i. 
Photo Courtesy: State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i Tourism Authority 108  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  ‘A‘O HE HANA NUI KE ALU ‘IA 
No task is too big when done together by all 
The disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 global pandemic created space to reflect on Hawai‘i's values, 
consider what makes Hawai‘i unique and resilient, and recognize some of the fault lines in our communities that make us vulnerable to shocks and stressors. At the time of the development of this plan, the COVID-19 global pandemic looms large. Recovery from the COVID-19 global pandemic is both an enormous challenge and a once-
in-a generation opportunity to rethink what was considered unchangeable. We can choose to innovate, to do things differently, to re-focus on the values and culture we want to perpetuate. 
Climate change will bring new challenges that Hawai‘i has not yet seen. We will increasingly experience shocks 
and stressors due to climate change. There is good information about the projected changes and many of the strategies recommended in this plan will help increase the Hawai‘i's resilience. 
This decade is a critical time to act. 
Hawai‘i has already made significant sustainability commitments through laws, policies, and plans that reflect 
our values. For the first time, this updated plan presents these commitments as a collective whole and aligned with the SDGs. There is much work yet to be done to achieve these sustainability goals and commitments. The strategies identified in this plan point to what is urgent to undertake over this decade. 
A successful Decade of Action in Hawai‘i will require: 
Strategic prioritization of 
limited resources. 
When prioritizing investments, funders 
should evaluate whether the activity contributes to one or more SDGs, is ready for action (e.g., existing targets, policies, plans, and/or partnerships are in place), addresses an urgent need, directly or indirectly addresses equity, explicitly protects our values, and will benefit local residents. 
Development of metrics to define 
success and then enable measurement 
and tracking of our progress. 
Defined endpoints and metrics for success 
will make it possible to measure 
advancements and identify where gaps remain; in some cases, targets and metrics have already been identified whereas a 
collective vision will need to be developed 
in other cases. 
Identifcation and 
commitment from lead and supporting actors. 
There are opportunities for 
everyone (elected ofcials, state agencies, counties, community 
organizations, the private sector, 
students, and residents) to lead or support eforts to achieve these strategies; collaboration will be essential. 
A realistic timeline to work toward. 
We can get moving quickly on some 
strategies, for which sustained efforts will 
be necessary to make steady, incremental 
process. Others may require significant 
upfront planning, buy-in from disparate 
parties, and securing financial support 
before a swift and dramatic change can be 
made. Establishing and clear and feasible 
timeline that sets out incremental 
milestones will ensure greater success. 
Let's work together toward an equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 109  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REFERENCES 
AAUW . (2020). The Fight for Pay Equity: A State Road Map for Ha-
wai‘i, 2020 Update.  https:/ /ww3.aauw.org/ aauw_check/pdf_download / 
show_pdf.php?fle=Gender_Pay_Gap_Hawaii 
Aldrich, Daniel & Meyer, Michelle. (2015). Social Capital and Com-
munity Resilience. American Behavioral Scientist . 59. 254-269. 
10.1177/0002764214550299. https:/ /www.researchgate.net/publica-
tion/281601274_Social_Capital_and_Community_Resilience 
American Council for an Energy Efcient Economy (ACEEE). (2020). 
2020 State Energy Efciency Scorecard . https:/ /www.aceee.org / 
sites/default/fles/pdfs/ACEEE_ScrSht20_Hawaii.pdf 
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). (2019). 2019 Hawai‘i 
Infrastructure Report Card . https:/ /www.infrastructurereportcard. 
org/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/ASCE-24199_Full-REPORT-2019-FI-
NAL.pdf 
Arizona State University (ASU) Ofce of Sex Trafcking Intervention and 
The Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women. (2019). Sex Traf -
fcking in Hawai‘i – The Stories of Survivors. https:/ /governor.hawaii. 
gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Executive-Summary-Part-II-Sex-Traf -
fcking-in-Hawaii-.pdf 
Associated Press. (2020, September 18). Hawai‘i's Unemployment 
Rate Ties for Third-Worst in Nation . https:/ /www.usnews.com/news / 
best-states/hawaii/ articles/2020-09-18/hawaiis-unemployment-rate-
ties-for-third-worst-in-nation 
Brace, Andrea M., Todd W . Moore, and Todd L. Matthews. (2020). The 
Relationship Between Food Deserts, Farmers‘ Markets, and Food 
Assistance Programs in Hawai‘i Census Tracts. https:/ /hawaiijour-
nalhealth.org/past_issues/hjhsw7902_0036.pdf 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2018, November 8). 
Unemployment rate lowest in Hawaii, highest in Alaska, in Octo-
ber 2018. https:/ /www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2018/unemployment-rate-low-
est-in-hawaii-highest-in-alaska-in-october-2018.htm 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2021). Economy at 
a Glance: Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.bls.gov/eag/eag.hi.htm 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2021, March 23). 
Alternative Measures of Labor Underutilization in Hawaii – 
2020. https:/ /www.bls.gov/regions/west/news-release/laborunderutili-
zation_hawaii.htm 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. (2021, March 5). Whole 
School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC). https:/ /www.cdc. 
gov/healthyschools/wscc/index.htm Cerizo, Kehaulani. (2021, March 11). 
Over half of eligible residents on 
Lanai, Molokai vaccinated. The Maui News. https:/ /www.mauinews. 
com/news/local-news/2021/03/over-half-of-eligible-residents-on-la-
nai-molokai-vaccinated/ 
City and County of Honolulu. (2002). General Plan: Objectives and 
Policies. http:/ /www.honoluludpp.org/Portals/0/pdfs/planning/gener-
alplan/GPReport.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2018). O‘ahu General Plan Review Report 2010-2017. http://www. 
honoluludpp.org/Portals/0/pdfs/planning/generalplan/GPUpdate / 
GP%20Review%20Report_web.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu. (2019). TOD Honolulu. http:/ /www.hono-
lulu.gov/tod City and County of Honolulu. (2020). Climate Adaptation Design 
Principles for Urban Development . http:/ /www.honolulu.gov/rep/ 
site/dpptod/climate_docs/Climate_Adaptation_Design_Principles.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu. (n.d.). Revised Ordinances of Honolulu, 
Chapter 24: Development Plans . https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/ocs/ 
roh/193-site-ocs-cat/977-roh-chapter-24.html 
City and County of Honolulu. (n.d.). Revised Ordinances of Honolulu, 
Chapter 30: Water Management. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/rep/site/ 
ocs/roh/ROH_Chapter_30_.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply (BWS). (2016). 2016 
Water Master Plan. https:/ /boardofwatersupply.com/bws/media/files/ 
water-master-plan-final-2016-10.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2015). Making Honolulu an Age-Friendly City: Action Plan. http:/ / 
agefriendlyhonolulu.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/Honolu-lu_Age-
Friendly_City_Action_Plan_2015.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2020, March 3).  Brownfields Assistance . http:/ /www.honolulu.gov/ 
tod/dpp-tod-resources/brownfields-assistance.html#:~:text=Honolu-lu% 
20has%20received%20two%20grants,cleanup%20for%20redevelop-
ment%20to%20occur 
Coleman-Jensen, Alisha, Matthew P. Rabbitt, Christian A. Gregory, and 
Anita Singh. (2020). Household Food Security in the United States 
in 2019. ERR-275, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Re-
search Service . https:/ /www.ers.usda.gov/webdocs/ 
publications/99282/err-275.pdf ?v=6835.6 
County of Hawai‘i. (2019). Resolution 322-19: Resolution Declaring a 
Hawai‘i County Climate Emergency and Requesting Regional 
Collaboration Towards an Immediate Just Transition and Emer-
gency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate. http:/ /records. 
hawaiicounty.gov/weblink/DocView.aspx?dbid=0&id=985350&cr=1 
County of Hawai‘i. (2020). County of Hawai‘i Community Develop-
ment Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Action Plan. 
https:/ /recovery.hawaiicounty.gov/Home/ShowDocument?id=302592 
County of Kaua‘i. (2012). Kaua‘i Multimodal Land Transportation 
Plan. http:/ /plankauai.com/wp-content/uploads/Kauai-MLTP-Fi-
nal-compressed.pdf 
County of Maui. (2019). Resolution No. 19-209: Acknowledging 
a Climate Emergency and Committing to an Immediate Just 
Transition and Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe 
Climate . https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/DocumentCenter/View/120651/ 
Reso-19-209 
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2012). Maui 
Island Plan: General Plan 2030. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/1503/ 
Maui-Island-Plan 
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2016). Lā-
na‘i Community Plan. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/ 
DocumentCenter/View/105983/2016-Lanai-Community-Plan-?bidId= 
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2018). 
Molo-ka‘i Island Community Plan. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/ 
Document-Center/View/8220/Molokai-Community-Plan-2018?bidId= 
County Water Use and Development Plans. https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/ 
cwrm/planning/hiwaterplan/countyplans/ 
110  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Creamer, Beverly. (2019a, April 2). Health in Hawai‘i: Good News, But 
Not for Everyone. Part 1: The Challenge. Hawai‘i Business Magazine. 
https:/ /www.hawaiibusiness.com/change-report-health/#part1. 
Creamer, Beverly. (2019b, April 2). Health in Hawai‘i: Good News, But Not 
for Everyone. Part 2: We‘re No. 1. Hawai‘i Business Magazine. https:/ / 
www.hawaiibusiness.com/change-report-health/#part2 . 
Earthjustice (2013). Petition to Amend an Instream Flow Standard. 
https:/ /e963f10d-efd1-4673-b16c-54490dc7911f.filesusr.com/ugd/5f73cf_ 
fe919461043a471a873a85cbbf756f1a.pdf 
Energy Information Administration (EIA). (2019). State Energy Data Sys-
tem . https:/ /www.eia.gov/state/?sid=HI 
Environmental Protection Agency. (2017). Healthy Benefits of Green 
Infrastructure in Communities. https:/ /www.epa.gov/sites/production/ 
files/2017-11/documents/ 
greeninfrastructure_healthy_communities_factsheet. pdf 
Environmental Protection Agency. (n.d.). Links and Resources About Food 
Recovery in Honolulu. https:/ /www.epa.gov/sustainable-management-food/ 
links-and-resources-about-food-recovery-honolulu 
Environmental Protection Agency. (2020). Understanding Global Warming 
Potentials. https:/ /www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/understanding-global-warm-
ing-potentials#Learn%20why 
Fernandes, Megan. (2019).  Hawai‘i ranks among most energy efficient 
states in the US, report says. https:/ /www.bizjournals.com/pacific/ 
news/2019/10/01/hawaii-ranks-among-most-energy-efficient-states-in.html 
Friends of Hanauma Bay. (2021). Restoration: Coral Restoration. http:/ / 
www.friendsofhanaumabay.org/restoration/ 
Grossman, Dakota (2021, April 10). Health centers look to fill gaps in 
vaccination efforts. The Maui News. https:/ /www.mauinews.com/news/ 
local-news/2021/04/health-centers-look-to-fill-gaps-in-vaccination-efforts/ 
Hastings, Z., Ticktin, T., Botelho, M., Reppun, N., Kukea Shultz, K., Wong, M., ... 
& Bremer, L. (2020). Integrating co  production and functional trait ap-
proaches for inclusive and scalable restoration solutions. Conservation 
Science and Practice. https: //www.researchgate.net/publication/342932510_ 
Integrating_co-production_and_functional_trait_approaches_for_inclusive_ 
and_scalable_restoration_solutions 
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships (HAWP). (2021a). About Us. 
http: //hawp.org /about-us / 
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021b).  History. http: //hawp. 
org /about-us/history/ 
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021c). What is a Water -
shed? http: //hawp.org/what-is-a-watershed / 
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021d). Why Watersheds 
Mat ter. http: //hawp.org/why-watersheds-matter/ 
Hawai‘i Community Foundation, Hawai‘i Fresh Water Initiative. (2015). A 
Blueprint for Action: Water Security for an Uncertain Future, 2016-
2018 . https: //www.hawaiicommunityfoundation.org/fle/cat/Fresh_Water_ 
Blueprint_FINAL_062215_small.pdf 
Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance. (2010). Hawaiian Culture and Conserva-
tion in Hawai‘i. https: //www.Hawaiiconservation.org/wp-content/uploads / 
Culturally-Grounded-Conservation.pdf Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance. (2021, March 3). 
Addressing Threats . https: // 
www.hawaiiconservation.org/our-approach /addressing-threats / 
Hawai‘i Green Growth. (2020). Aloha+ Challenge. https: //alohachallenge. 
hawaii.gov/ Hawai‘i Revised Statutes,  Objectives and policies for facility systems—in 
general, §226-14 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_ 
Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0014.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – solid 
and liquid wastes, §226-15 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent / 
Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0015.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – water, 
§226-16 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0016.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—land-based, shoreline, and marine resources, §226-11 (1986). https:/ / www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/ HRS_0226-0011.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—land, air, and water, §226-13 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/ hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0013.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—scenic, natural beauty, and historic resources, §226-12 (1986). https:/ / www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/ HRS_0226-0012.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—culture, §226-25 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent / 
Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0025.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—education, §226-21 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent / 
Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0021.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—individual rights and personal well-being, §226-24 (1986). https:/ /www. capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0024.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—social services, §226-22 (1990). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0022.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Establishment of an ofce paper and other materials 
recovery program, §342G-45 (1991).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342G/HRS_0342G-0045.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Goals for recycled product procurement, §342G -
41 (1991). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/ 
HRS0342G/HRS_0342G-0041.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – telecom-
munications, §226-18-5 (1994). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent / 
Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0018_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – trans
-
portation, §226-17 (1994). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_ 
Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0017 .htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy efciency and environmental standards 
for state facilities, motor vehicles, and transportation fuel, § 196-9 (2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol03_ch0121-0200d/HRS0196/ HRS_0196-0009.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i renewable hydrogen program, §196-10 
(2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/ HRS0196/HRS_0196-0010.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, State support for achieving alternate fuels standards, 
§196-42 (2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrsarchive/hrs2006/Vol03_ Ch0121-0200D/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0042.HTM 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy-efciency portfolio standards, §269-96 
(2009). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319 / 
HRS0269/HRS_0269-0096.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Specifc research and promotional functions of the 
department, §201-3 (2009). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_ Ch0201-0257/HRS0201/HRS_0201-0003.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Priority guidelines and principles to promote 
sustainability, §226-108 (2011). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent / 
Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0108.htm 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 111  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Climate Change and Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines, §226-109 (2012). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/ Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0109.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Employment Practices, Chapter 378 (2013). 
https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol07_Ch0346-0398/ HRS0378/ 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i climate change mitigation and adapta-tion commission; general functions, duties, and powers, §225P-3 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HR-S0225P/HRS_0225P-0003.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—in general, 
§226-6 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0006.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—informa-
tion industry, §226-10.5 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0010_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—potential 
growth and innovative activities, §226-10 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol. hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0010. htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural 
advancement—health, §226-20 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/ hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0020.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy-- agricul-
ture, §226-7 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_ Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0007 .htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – 
energy, §226-18 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_ Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0018.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Renewable portfolio standards, §269-92 
(2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/ HRS0269/HRS_0269-0092.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, University of Hawai‘i; net-zero energy goal, 
§304A-119 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_ Ch0261-0319/HRS0304A/HRS_0304A-0119.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Sustainable Schools Initiative, §302A-1510 
(2016). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319 / 
HRS0302A/HRS_0302A-1510.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Afordable Housing, §226-106 (2017). https:/ / 
www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/ HRS_0226-0106.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i Water Plan, §174C-31 (g) (6) (2017).  
https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/ HRS0174C/HRS_0174C-0031.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural 
advancement—housing, §226-19  (2017). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/ hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0019.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target, §225P-5 
(2018). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol04_ch0201-0257/ 
HRS0225P/HRS_0225P-0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy retroft and performance contracting for 
public utilities, §36-41 (2019). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent / 
vol01_ch0001-0042f/HRS0036/HRS_0036-0041.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Coal power purchase agreements; prohibited, 
§269-48 (2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_ 
Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0048.htm Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Ofce of planning, establishment; responsibili-ties, §225M-2 (2020).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_ Ch0201-0257/HRS0225M/HRS_0225M-0002.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Renewable energy technologies; income tax 
credit §235-12.5 (2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent / 
Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0235/HRS_0235-0012_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Use of coal for electricity generation, §342B-36 
(2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/ HRS0342B/HRS_0342B-0036.htm 
Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women. (2020). Building 
Bridges Not Walking on Backs: A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for COVID-19. https:/ /humanservices.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-loads/2020/04/4.13.20-Final-Cover-D2-Feminist-Economic-Recov-ery-D1.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2005, July 1). Act 151 HB1342 
HD2 SD1 CD1, A bill for an Act Relating to State Planning. https:/ /www. capitol.hawaii.gov/splsession2005/bills/sb1592_cd1_.htm 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2011, June 2). Act 8 HB1592 
HD1 SD2 CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Telecommunications. https:/ / fles.hawaii.gov/dcca/broadband/ act-151/Act_151.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2014). SCR No. 69 SD1. Senate 
Concurrent Resolution Endorsing and Supporting the Aloha+ Challenge. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2014/bills/SCR69_SD1_.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2017 , June 6). SB559 SD1 HD2 
CD1, An Act Relating to Climate Change. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/ session2017/bills/GM1132_.PDF 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2018, July 5). Act 132 (18) 
SB2567 HD2 SD2 CD1, An Act Relating to Cesspools. https:/ /health.hawaii. gov/wastewater/fles/2018/09/Act132.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2019, June 26). SB375 SD2 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Agriculture. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii. gov/session2019/bills/GM1253_.PDF 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). SB512 SD2 HD1 CD1, 
A Bill for an Act Relating to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Incentives. 29-Apr-2021. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/ bills/SB512_CD1_.htm. 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). HB552 SD2 HD1 CD1, 
A Bill for an Act Relating to the Environment. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii. gov/session2021/bills/HB552_CD1_.htm 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
SB767 SD2 HD2, A 
Bill for an Act Relating to the Farm to School Program. https:/ /www. 
capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB767_SD2_.htm Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
SB817 SD2 HD2, A 
Bill for an Act Relating to Agriculture . https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/ 
session2021/bills/HB817_SD2_.pdf Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
HB1149 SD2 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Land Use. https:/ /www.capitol. 
hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB1149_CD1_.pdf Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
HB1318 SD1 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Sustainability. https:/ /www.capitol. 
hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB1318_CD1_.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). SCR No. 44 SD1 HD1. 
Senate Concurrent Resolution Declaring a Climate Emergency and Re-questing Statewide Collaboration Toward an Immediate Just Transition and Emergency Mobilization Efort to Restore a Safe Climate. https:/ / 
www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/SCR44_HD1_.pdf 
112  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA). (2020). Area Health 
Resources File s. https: //data.hrsa.gov/topics/health-workforce /ahrf 
Health Resources & Services Administration. (2021). Find a Health Center. 
https: //fndahealthcenter.hrsa.gov/ 
Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, Inc. (HIMSS). 
(2018, January 18). Lāna‘i Community Health Center Selected as 2017 HIMSS 
Community Health Davies Award Recipien t. https: //www.himss.org/news/im-
proving-community-health-outcomes-through-telehealth 
Henkin, David. (2017 , April 18). Flows Restored to Waimea River and ‘Grand 
Canyon of the Pacific. ' Earthjustice. https:/ /earthjustice.org/news/press/2017/ 
flows-restored-to-waimea-river-and-grand-canyon-of-the-pacific 
Hawai‘i News Now (HNN) Staff. (2018, November 8). Stretch of Kūhiō Hwy. 
damaged by foods to remain closed until 2019. Hawai‘i News Now. https: //www. 
hawaiinewsnow.com/2018/11/08/stretch-kuhio-hwy-damaged-by-foods-re-main-closed-till/ 
Hofschneider, Anita. (2021). Hawai‘i Residents from COFA Nations Can Now 
Apply for Medicaid. https: //www.civilbeat.org/2021/01/hawaii-residents-from-
cofa-nations-can-now-apply-for-medicaid/ 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) (2018). Global Warming of 
1.5°C. An IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways, in 
the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, 
sustainable development, and eforts to eradicate poverty
. [Masson-Delmotte, 
V., P. Zhai, H.-O. Pörtner, D. Roberts, J. Skea, P.R. Shukla, A. Pir ani, W. Moufou-
ma-Okia, C. Péan, R. Pidcock, S. Connors, J.B.R. Matthews, Y. Chen, X. Zhou, 
M.I. Gomis, E. Lonnoy, T. Maycock, M. Tignor, and T. Waterfeld (eds.)]. https: // 
www.ipcc.ch/sr15/ 
International Energy Agency (IEA). (2021). Net Zero by 2050: A Roadmap for 
the Global Energy Secto r. https: //iea.blob.core.windows.net /assets/4719e321-
6d3d-41a2-bd6b-461ad2f850a8/NetZeroby2050-ARoadmapfortheGlobalEner-
gySector.pdf 
International Volcanic Health Hazard Network (IVHHN), Hawai‘i State De-
partment of Health, USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, Hawai‘i County Civil 
Defense, National Park Service, County of  Hawai‘i, CSA V, NOAA, and the USDA 
Farm Service Agency. (2021). Hawai‘i Interagency Vog Information Dashboard . 
https: //vog.ivhhn.org / 
Jackson, C. Kirabo, Johnson, Rucker C., and Persico, Claudia. (2016). The Efects 
of School Spending on Educational and Economic Outcomes: Evidence from 
School Finance Reforms. The Quarterly Journal of Economics , Volume 131, 
Issue 1, February 2016, Pages 157–218. https: //doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjv036 
KFF . (2019). KFF analysis of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC)'s 2013-2019 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveil-lance System (BRFSS). https: //www.kf.org/other/state-indicator/ 
percent-of-adults-reporting-not-seeing-a-doctor-in-the-past-12-months-because-of-cost-by-raceethnicity/?currentTimeframe=0&se-lectedRows=%7B%22states%22:%7B%22hawaii%22:%7B%7D%7D%7D&sort-Model=%7B%22colId%22:%22Location%22,%22sort%22:%22asc%22%7D 
KITV Web Staf. (2021, March 12). 12 Hawai‘i health care centers chosen to 
provide vaccines to underserved communities. KIT V. https: //www.kitv.com / 
story/43490305/12-hawaii-health-care-centers-chosen-to-provide-vac-cines-to-underserved-communities 
Knight Foundation. (2010). Soul of the Community 2010 Overall Findings. 
https: //knightfoundation.org/sotc/overall-fndings / 
Ko‘olau Mountains Watershed Partnership. (2021). 
Our Partners. http: // 
koolauwatershed.org/partners/. 
Kotrba, R. (2019, December 14). Pacific Biodiesel and Hamakua Energy 
Sign Contract – Oct. 2019. Biodiesel Magazine. https:/ /www.biodiesel. com/ 
pacific-biodiesel-and-hamakua-energy-sign-contract-oct-2019/ . 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center. (2020). Annual Report 2019. 
https: //lanaihealth.org/wp-content/uploads/2019-Annual-Report-RE -
VISED-LCHC-With-Covers.pdf 
Leeward Haleakalā Watershed Restoration Partnership. (2018). The Partner -
ship . https:/ /www.lhwrp.org/whoarewe. Loke, Matthew K. and James Mak. ( 2019). Reducing Food Waste in Ha wai‘i: A 
Primer. https:/ /gms.ctahr.hawaii.edu/gs/handler/getmedia.ashx-
?moid=65942&dt=3&g=12 
Mauna Kea Watershed Alliance. (2021). Our Partners. https:/ /maunakeawater-
shed.org/our-partners/. 
McCoy, D., McManus, M.A., Kotubetey, K., Kawelo, A.H., Young, C., D‘Andrea, B., et 
al. (2017). Large-scale climatic effects on traditional Hawaiian fishpond 
aquaculture . PLoS ONE 12(11): e0187951. https:/ /doi.org/10.1371/journal. 
pone.0187951 
Mediation Agreement for the Waimea Watershed Area. (2017 , April 18). https:/ / 
dhhl.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/20170418_Agreement.pdf 
Meyers, Talya. (2020, November 10). On a Small Hawaiian Island, Covid-19— 
Finally—Rears Its Head. Direct Relief. https:/ /www.directrelief.org/2020/11/on-
a-small-hawaiian-island-covid-19-finally-rears-its-head/ Miyashima, Mika. (2017 , December 12). Mayors pledge 100% ground trans-
portation powered by renewable energy by 2045
. KITV . https:/ /www.kitv.com/ 
story/37053289/mayors-pledge-100-ground-transportation-powered-by-re-
newable-energy-by-2045 
Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. (2021). Lanikeha Community Center. 
https:/ /www.molokaihfa.com/lanikeha-community-center 
National Park Service. (2018). 2018 Eruption and Summit Collapse. https:/ / 
www.nps.gov/havo/learn/nature/2018-eruption.htm 
National Women's Law Center. (NWLC) (2021). Hawai‘i. https:/ /nwlc.org/state/ 
hawaii/ 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA). (2018). Haumea—Transforming the 
Health of Native Hawaiian Women and Empowering Wahine Well-being . 
https:/ /19of32x2yl33s8o4xza0gf14-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/up-
loads/OHA-Womens-Health-Executive-Summary-1.pdf 
‘Ōlelo No‘eau: Hawaiian Proverbs & Poetical Sayings. (1983). Collected, trans-
lated, and annotated by Mary Kawena Pukui, Bishop Museum Press, Honolulu, 
Hawai‘i. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2017). Hawaii's Largest Liquid Biofuel Crop Farm. 20 April 
2017. https:/ /www.biodiesel.com/hawaiis-largest-biofuel-crop/. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2019a). About Pacific Biodiesel. https:/ /www.biodiesel.com/ 
about-us/. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2019b). Pacific Biodiesel Logistics. https:/ /www.biodiesel. com/ 
logistics/. Pacific Business News (2019c). Pacific Biodiesel to supply Hamakua plant with 
biodiesel. https:/ /www.bizjournals.com/pacific/news/2019/11/01/pacific-bio-
diesel-to-supply-hamakua-plant-with.html 
Pacific Biodiesel (2021). Pacific Biodiesel Offers Insight for Hawaii's Energy 
Future. Pacific Biodiesel Quarterly News and Updates, February 2021. https:/ / 
myemail.constantcontact.com/News-and-Updates-from-Pacific-Biodiesel. html? soid=1102919617057&aid=vT03_4xqRl8. 
Pactol, Catherine Cluett (2018). Lanikeha Re-Opens with a Facelift. The Moloka‘i 
Dispatch, 25 July 2018. https:/ /themolokaidispatch.com/lanikeha-re-opens-with-a-facelift/ 
Penniman, T. (2018). Flower Power, Maui Nō Ka ‘Oi Magazine. https:/ /www. 
mauimagazine.net/flower-power/. Pruitt, A. S., Zhang, W ., Wu, Y., Bird, O., Nakamura, B. & Barile, J. P. (2021). 
Addressing Hunger & Food Insecurity among Hawai‘i's Families. Prepared for the College of Social Sciences, UH Mānoa and First Insurance Company of Hawai‘i, Honolulu, H.I. https:/ /drive.google.com/file/d/1e3MkhACuaFYxULdsf-wx56Jp1psCMAm4t/view 
Restaurants for Renewables. (n.d.). Restaurants 4 Renewables: From Cooking Oil 
to Clean Energy. https:/ /restaurants4renewables.com/ 
Selmants, P.C., Giardina, C.P., Jacobi, J.D., and Zhu, Zhiliang (eds.). (2017). 
Baseline and projected future carbon storage and carbon fluxes in ecosystems of Hawai‘i: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1834. https:/ /doi. org/10.3133/ 
pp1834 
Serota, Nathan. (2020, August 28). Research chronicles improved conditions at 
Hanauma Bay during closure. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/cms-csd-menu/site-csd-sitearticles/1305-site-csd-news-2020-cat/39289-08-28-20-research-chronicles-improved-conditions-at-hanauma-bay-during-closure.html 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 113  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 REFERENCES 
Severino, Sarah J.L., Rodgers, Ku‘ulei S., Stender, Yuko, and Stefanak, 
Mathew. (2020). Hanauma Bay Biological Carrying Capacity Survey: 2019-20 2nd Annual Report. Prepared for the City and County of Honolulu and the Hawai‘i Board of Land and Natural Resources. http: //www.honolulu.gov/ 
rep/site/dpr/hanaumabay_docs/Hanauma_Bay_Carrying_Capacity_Re-port_August_2020.pdf 
Sproat, D. Kapua‘ala. (2009). Ola I Ka Wai: A Legal Primer for Water Use 
and Management in Hawai‘i. Center for Excellence in Native Hawaiian Law. University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa. https: //www.law.hawaii.edu/sites/www.law. 
hawaii.edu/fles/content/Programs%2CClinics%2CInstitutes/Ola%20i%20 
ka%20Wai%20Final.pdf 
Star-Advertiser Staf. (2020, December 2). Hanauma Bay reopens following 
8-month COVID-19 closure. Star Advertiser. https: //www.staradvertiser. 
com/2020/12/02/breaking-news/hanauma-bay-reopens-following-8-month-covid-19-closure/ 
State Foundation on Culture and the Arts (SFCA). (2000). Moloka‘i in 
History, A Guide to the Resources. Strazar, M.D. (ed.). http: //sfca.hawaii.gov/ 
wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Molokai2000_SFCA1.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i. (2019). Housing Is Healthcare. https: //ltgov.hawaii.gov/ 
wp-content/uploads/2019/10/HIH_Brochure_Final_Revised.pdf State of Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission (HCRC). (2020). 2019-2020 An-
nual Report. https: //labor.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/HCRC -
2019-2020-Annual-Report.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Clean Energy Initiative. (2020). About the Hawai‘i 
Clean Energy Initiative. http://www.Hawai ‘icleanenergyinitiative.org/ 
about-the-Hawai‘i-clean-energy-initiative/ 
State of Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission. 
(2017). Hawai‘i Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report. Pre-pared by the State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Ofce of Conservation and Coastal Lands. https: //climateadaptation.hawaii. 
gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/SLR-Report_Dec201 7.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commis-sion. (2021). Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper. https: //climate.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-
loads/2021/04/CRHI-Working-Paper-V5.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management (CWRM), 
Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2013). Hawai‘i Water Conser-vation Plan. https: //fles.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/hwcp2013.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management, Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2019). Hawai‘i Water Plan: Water Resource Protection Plan, 2019 Update. https: //fles.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning / 
wrpp2019update/WRPP_ALL_20190 7.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management r, Depart-ment of Land and Natural Resources. (2020). State Water Projects Plan Update. https: //fles.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/swpp2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management, Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2021). Hawai‘i Water Plan.  https: //dlnr. 
hawaii.gov/cwrm/planning/hiwaterplan / 
State of Hawai‘i Constitution. https: //lrb.hawaii.gov/constitution 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2016). Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan: 2017-202 7. https: //hdoa.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-
loads/2016/09/Hawaii-Interagency-Biosecurity-Plan.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2019a). Agricultural Water Use 
and Development Plan Update. https: //fles.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning / 
awudp2019update/AWUDP_2019.pdf State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2019b). Report on the 
Strategic Plan to Double Local Food Production and Exports by 2030. 
https:/ /hdoa. hawaii.gov/blog/main/reports-submitted-for-legislative-
session-2019/ at-tachment/doa-act-151-slh-2019-strategic-plan-
report-2019/ 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism (DBEDT). (1998). Hawai‘i Climate Change Action Plan. https:/ /plan-
ning.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/HawaiiActionPlan1998.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2016). Analyses and Proposal of Hawaii Amendments to the 2015 International Energy Conservation Code. https:/ /energy.hawaii.gov/wp-con-tent/uploads/2016/07/Analyses-and-Proposal-of-Amendments.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2019). Self-Sufficiency Income Standard Estimates for Hawai‘i 2018. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/reports/self-sufficiency/ self-sufficiency_2018.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development & Tour-
ism. (2020a). County Social, Business and Economic Trends in Hawai‘i: 
1990 – 2019
. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/data_reports/coun-
ty_report/county-trends-2019.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism. (2020b). 2019 State of Hawai‘i Data Book. Section 24. https:/ /files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/databook/db2019/section24.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism. (2020c). Hawai‘i's Economic Structure: An Analysis Using Industry Level Gross Domestic Product Data. https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/economic/ files/2020/04/GDP_Report_Final_April2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2021a). Brain Drain: Characteristics of Hawai‘i-Born Adults on the U.S. Mainland. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/reports/Brain_ Drain_Hawaii_Born_Population.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2021b). Phase III Hawai‘i Defense Economy (HDE) Action Plan . 
https:/ /defenseeconomy.hawaii.gov/wordpress/wp-content/up-loads/2021/03/HDE_ActionPlan_12-11-2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation (HHFDC). 
(2017). The Hawai‘i State Plan: Housing Functional Plan
. https:/ /dbedt. 
hawaii.gov/hhfdc/files/2017/03/Housing_2017 .pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation. (2019). 
Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study, 2019
. https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/hhfdc/ 
files/2020/01/FINAL-State_Hawaii-Housing-Planning-Study.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation. (2020). 
Consolidated Plan for Program Years 2020 through 2024: Annual Action Plan for Program Year 2020. https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/hhfdc/ 
files/2020/09/FINAL_5YR-CONPLAN-AAP_20200716.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education (DOE). (2019). Hawai‘i Department 
of Education Data Book: 2018
. https:/ /www.hawaiipublicschools.org/Re-
ports/2018HIDOEDatabook.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020a). 2030 Promise Plan. 
http:/ /www.hawaiipublicschools.org/DOE%20Forms/Advancing%20Edu -
cation/2030PromisePlan.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020b). ESSA Report Every 
Student Succeeds Act School Year 2018-19. https:/ /arch-prod-re-
ports-repository.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/essa/2019/999ESSARpt.pdf 
114    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020c). Hawai‘i Literacy Plan. 
https: //www.hawaiip20.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Hawaii-State-Liter-
acy-Plan_WEB.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (n.d.). Wellness Guidelines. https: // 
www.hawaiipublicschools.org/TeachingAndLearning/HealthAndNutrition / 
WellnessGuidelines/Pages/home.aspx State of Hawai‘i Department of Education and Board of Education (DOE-BOE). 
(2016). Strategic Plan: 2017-2020
. https: //www.hawaiipublicschools.org / 
VisionForSuccess/AdvancingEducation/StrategicPlan/Pages/home.aspx 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. (2011). Ho‘omaluō Ener -
gy Policy. https: //dhhl.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/DHHL-Ener-
gy-Policy.pdf State of Hawai‘i Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. (2017). Historic Settle-
ment Reached in West Kaua‘i Waimea River Water Dispute
. http: //dhhl.hawaii. 
gov/2017/05/05/historic-settlement-reached-in-west-kauai-waimea-river-
water-dispute/ 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2013). Hawai‘i Physical Activity and 
Nutrition Plan: 2013-2020. https: //health.hawaii.gov/physical-activity-nutri-
tion/fles/2013/08/Hawaii-PAN-Plan-2013-2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2014). Hawai‘i Coordinated Chronic 
Disease Framework . https: //health.hawaii.gov/chronic-disease/fles/2014/09 / 
CDFrameworkLR.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2016). Tobacco Control Strategic Plan, 
2016–2020. Honolulu, HI: Chronic Disease Prevention & Health Promotion 
Division, Tobacco Prevention and Education Program. https: //health.hawaii. 
gov/chronic-disease/fles/2019/12/TPC-Strategic-Plan.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2017). Hawai‘i Sexual and Gender 
Minority Health Report . https: //health.hawaii.gov/surveillance/fles/2017/05/ 
HawaiiSexualandGenderMinorityHealthReport.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2018). Good Food for All . https: //health. 
hawaii.gov/chronic-disease/files/2018/03/gffa-web.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019a). Hawai‘i Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Report for 2016. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/ 
fles/2019/12/2016-Inventory_Final-Report_December2019-1.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019b). Water Quality Plan. Hawai‘i 
Department of Health. https: //health.Hawaii.gov/water/fles/2019/03/FI-
NAL-DOH-Water-Quality-Plan-2019.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019c). Water Reuse Task Force Report 
to the Thirtieth Legislatur e. https: //www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2019/bills / 
DC246_.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2020). Healthy Hawai‘i 2020 – A Com-
munity Health Plan (State Health Improvement Plan). https: //health.hawaii. 
gov/opppd/ship/ 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2021a). Hawai‘i Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Report for 2017. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/ 
files/2021/04/2017-Inventory_Final-Report_April-2021.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2021b). Clean Air Branch. 5 March 
2021. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/ 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Clean Water Branch. (2021c). Hawai‘i 
Nonpoint Source Management Plan: 2021-202 5. https: //health.hawaii.gov/ 
cwb/fles/2021/02/2021-02-12-NPS-Plan-Public-Comment-Draft.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Ofce of Solid Waste Management 
(DOH-OSWM). (2020). Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report to 
the Thirty-First Legislatur e. https: //health.hawaii.gov/shwb/fles/2021/01/ 
Final-PSRWG-Report-to-Leg.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Ofce of Solid Waste Management. 
(2021). Amended Annual Report to the Thirty-First Legislature State of Hawai‘i 2021. https: //health.hawaii.gov/shwb/fles/2021/03/2021-OSWM-Annual-Re-
port-Amended.pdf State of Hawai‘i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. (2010). Ha -
wai‘i's Green Workforce: A Baseline Assessment
. https: //dlir.state.hi.us/labor/ 
lmi/pdf/HawaiisGreenWorkforce_BaselineAssessment.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. (2021). Hawai‘i 
Green Jobs Initiative . https: //greenjobshawaii.hirenethawaii.com/vosnet/De-
fault.aspx 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2011). The Rain 
Follows the Forest: A Plan to Replenish Hawai‘i's Source of Water. https: // 
dlnr.hawaii.gov/rain/fles/2014/02/The-Rain-Follows-the-Forest.pdf#:~:-
text=The%20Rain%20Follows%20the%20Forest%20is%20the%20Depart-
ment%E2%80%99s,sources.%20The%20forests%20and%20their%20abili-
ty%20to%20capture 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2015). Hawai‘i's 
State Wildlife Action Plan . https: //dlnr.hawaii.gov/wildlife/fles/2020/07/HI-
SWAP-2015-FINAL.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2017). Coral Bleaching Recovery Plan. Prepared by the University 
of Hawai‘i Social Science Research Institute. https: //dlnr.hawaii.gov/reefre-
sponse/files/2016/09/CoralBleachingRecoveryPlan_final_newDARlogo.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2020a).Coral Reef Strategy 2030. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. gov/ 
coralreefs/files/2020/08/Hawaii-Coral-Reef-Strategy-2030-Final.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2020b).Holomua: Marine 30x30. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/ 
files/2020/12/HolomuaMarine30x30_Roadmap_web.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of For-
estry and Wildlife. (2008). Strategic Plan for Hawai‘i's Natural Area Reserves 
System. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/ecosystems/files/2013/09/Strategic-Plan-
v2-4. pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Forest-
ry and Wildlife. (2010). Hawai‘i Statewide Assessment of Forest Conditions and 
Trends: 2010. An Assessment of the State of Our ‘Aina . https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/ 
forestry/files/2013/09/SWARS-Entire-Assessment-and-Strategy.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of For-
estry and Wildlife. (2016). Hawai‘i Forest Action Plan 2016. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. gov/forestry/files/2013/09/Hawaii-Forest-Action-Plan-2016-FINAL.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State 
Parks. (2018). Hā‘ena State Park Master Plan: Final Report
. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. 
gov/dsp/files/2018/03/Haena-MP-FINAL.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation (HDOT), Airports Division and 
KYA Sustainability Studio. (2016). SustainableHNL Sustainable Management 
Plan . https:/ /airports.hawaii.gov/hnl/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2016/09/ 
sHNL-Sustainable-Management-Plan-20160809-PRINT.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Highways Division. (2019). 
Statewide Coastal Highway Program Report. https:/ /hidot.hawaii.gov/high-ways/files/2019/09/State-of-Hawaii-Statewide-Coastal-Highway-Program-Report_Final_2019.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Highways Division. (2021). 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action Plan. https:/ /assets.adobe.com/ 
public/452ba422-871a-4549-5c95-184cfe2e6aec 
State of Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency (HIEMA). (2018a). State 
of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation Plan. https:/ /dod.hawaii.gov/hiema/ 
files/2020/06/2018-State-HI-HMP-Update-100218.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency. (2018b, August 23). About 
Hurricane Evacuation Shelters in Hawai‘i
. https:/ /dod.hawaii.gov/hiema/ 
about-hurricane-evacuation-shelters-in-hawaii/ 
State of Hawai‘i Office of the Auditor. (2008). Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan . https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/sustainability/ 
hawaii_2050_plan_final.pdf 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  || 115  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 REFERENCES 
State of Hawai‘i Ofce of the Auditor. (2018). Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan – Ten Year Measurement Update. https: //fles.hawaii.gov /auditor/Re-
ports/2018/2018H2050.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Ofce of Planning. (2012). Increased Food Security 
and Self-Sufciency Strategy . https: //fles.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb / 
INCREASED_FOOD_SECURITY_AND_FOOD_SELF_SUFFICIENCY_ 
STRATEGY.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Ofce of Planning. (2016). Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehen-
sive Economic Development Strategy . https: //fles.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb / 
CEDS_2016_fnal.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Ofce of Planning. (2019). Feasibility and Implications of 
Establishing a Carbon Ofset Program for the State of Hawai‘i . https: //fles. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/sustainability/feasibility_and_implications_of_estab-
lishing_a_carbon_ofset_program_for_the_state_of_hawaii_fnalweb.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Ofce of Planning (2019b). Feasibility and Implications 
of Managed Retreat Strategies for Vulnerable Coastal Areas in Hawai‘i. 
https: //fles.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp /assessing_the_feasibility_and_ 
implications_of_managed_retreat_strategies_for_vulnerable_coastal_ar-
eas_in_hawaii.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning (2020). The Hawai‘i Ocean Resources 
Management Plan . https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp/ 
ormp_update_re-ports/2020_ormp_final.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning (2021). Hawai‘i Interagency Council for 
Transit-Oriented Development . http:/ /planning.hawaii.gov/lud/state-tod/ 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and DBEDT. (2018). Affordable Rental 
Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/ AffordableRentalHousingReport_10YearPlan.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and DBEDT. (2020). State Transit-
Oriented Development (TOD) Planning and Implementation Project for the 
Island of O‘ahu
. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/ 
lud/20200811_StateTOD-ProjectReport/State-TOD-PIP-
Proj_WebReport_202007 .pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Devel-
opment Corporation. (2018). Strategic Plan for Transit-Oriented Devel-
opment. Hawaii Interagency Council for Transit-Oriented Development. 
https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/lud/State-TOD-Strategic-
Plan_Dec-2017-Rev-Aug-2018_rev20190715_secured.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i State Energy Office. (2020). Hawai‘i Energy Facts & 
Figures . https:/ /energy.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/HSEO_ 
FactsAndFigures-2020.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Energy Office (2021). 2020 Annual Report . https:/ /energy. 
hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/HSEO_2020_Annual_Report.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Tourism Authority (HTA). (2020a, January 29). Hawai‘i 
Visitor Statistics Released for 2019. https:/ /www.hawaiitourismauthority. org/media/4166/2020-01-29-hawaii-visitor-statistics-released-for-decem-ber-2019.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. (2020b). Strategic Plan: 2020-
2025. https:/ /www.hawaiitourismauthority.org/media/4286/hta-strate-
gic-plan-2020-2025.pdf 
Truesdale, J. (2021, March 1). This Program Helped Big Island Farmers and 
Families. Now It's Out of Cash, Civil Beat. https:/ /www.civilbeat. org/2021/03/this-program-helped-big-island-farmers-and-families-now-its-out-of-cash/. University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program and State of Hawai‘i 
Department of Land and Natural Resources and Office of Planning. (2020). 
Guidance for Addressing Sea Level Rise in Community Planning in Hawai‘i. 
Prepared with funding from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration Office for Coastal Management
. https:/ /climate.hawaii.gov/wp-con-
tent/uploads/2020/10/Item-3-I-a-Guidance-for-Addressing-SLR-in-Com-
munity-Planning-in-HI-2.pdf 
University of Hawai‘i. (2015). Hawai‘i Innovation Initiative. https:/ / 
www.hawaii.edu/innovation/ 
University of Hawai‘i. (2018). University of Hawai‘i Strategic Di-
rections 2015-2021. http:/ /blog.hawaii.edu/strategicdirections/ 
files/2018/10/SD2.0_Revisions_2018_Update-2.pdf 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020, September 8). UH Mānoa work to 
tackle racism takes national spotlight. https:/ /www.Hawai‘i.edu/ 
news/2020/09/08/trht-at-pullias-lecture/ 
United Nations. (2021). The Sustainable Development Agenda. https:/ / 
www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/development-agenda/ 
United Nations. (2021). Decade of Action . https:/ /www.un.org/sustain-
abledevelopment/decade-of-action/ 
United Nations Environment Programme. (2021). International Good 
Practice Principles for Sustainable Infrastructure . https:/ / 
wedocs.unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/34853/GPSI.pdf 
United States Geological Survey. (USGS) Hawaiian Volcano Observatory. 
(2021). Frequently Asked Questions About Volcanic Smog (vog) . https:/ / 
www.usgs.gov/observatories/hawaiian-volcano-observatory/frequently-
asked-questions-about-volcanic-smog-vog 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020a, July 19). Leeward CC becomes UH's 
first net-zero campus. https:/ /www.hawaii.edu/news/2020/07/19/lee-
ward-first-uh-net-zero-campus/ 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020b, September 8). UH Mānoa work 
to tackle racism takes national spotlight. https:/ /www.Hawaii.edu/ 
news/2020/09/08/trht-at-pullias-lecture/ 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2021, January 24). UH Maui College 
achieves net-zero goal. https:/ /www.hawaii.edu/news/2021/01/24/uh-
maui-college-achieves-net-zero-goal/ 
USGCRP. (2018). Impacts, Risks, and Adaptation in the United States: 
Fourth National Climate Assessment, Volume II, Chapter 27: Hawai‘i and 
U.S.-Affiliated Pacific Islands [Reidmiller, D.R., C. W. Avery, D.R. Easterling, 
K.E. Kunkel, K.L.M. Lewis, T.K. Maycock, and B.C. Stewart (eds.)]. https:/ / 
nca2018.globalchange.gov/chapter/front-matter-about/ 
U.S. Census Bureau. (2011). American Fact Finder: Profile of General 
Population and Housing Characteristics: 2010. 2010 Demographic 
Profile Data for Census Tract 316.01, Maui County, Hawai‘i. https:/ /files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/census/Census_2010/demographic/demo_profile_ct_ 
NI/2010dp_ct316.01.pdf 
U.S. Census Bureau. (2019a). American Community Survey 
5-year estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for 
East Molokai CCD, Maui County, HI. http:/ /censusreporter.org/pro-
files/06000US1500990090-east-molokai-ccd-maui-county-hi/ 
U.S. Census Bureau. (2019b). American Community Survey 
5-year estimates.  Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for 
Kalawao CCD, Kalawao County, HI http:/ /censusreporter.org/pro-
files/06000US1500590990-kalawao-ccd-kalawao-county-hi/ 
116 U.S. Census Bureau. (2019c). American Community Survey 5-year 
estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for West Moloka‘i CCD, 
Maui County, HI. http:/ /censusreporter.org/profiles/06000US1500993960-
west-molokai-ccd-maui-county-hi/ 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. (2017a). Census of Agriculture County Profile: 
Hawai‘i County, Hawai‘i . https:/ /www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCen-
sus/2017/Online_Resources/County_Profiles/Hawaii/cp15001.pdf . 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. (2017b). Census of Agriculture State Profile: 
Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCensus/2017/Online_Re-
sources/County_Profiles/Hawaii/cp99015.pdf. 
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
Energy. (n.d.). Biodiesel Benefits and Considerations. Alternative Fuels Data 
Center . https:/ /afdc.energy.gov/fuels/biodiesel_benefits.html. 
U.S. Water Alliance. (2016). One Water Roadmap: The Sustainable Management 
of Life's Most Essential Resource . http:/ /uswateralliance.org/sites/uswateralli-
ance.org/files/publications/Roadmap%20FINAL.pdf 
Velasquez-Manoff, Moises. (2010, June 28). Want to Be Less Racist? Move to 
Hawai‘i. New York Times . https:/ /www.nytimes.com/2019/06/28/opinion/ 
sunday/racism-hawaii.html 
Wu, Nina. (2020, October 27). Lanai stay-at-home order begins today as officials 
try to contain outbreak. Star Advertiser. https:/ /www.staradvertiser. 
com/2020/10/27/hawaii-news/lanai-stay-at-home-order-begins-today-as-offi-
cials-try-to-contain-outbreak/ 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030) 
June 2021 
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Āina i ka Pono 
The Life of the Land is Perpetuated in Righteousness 
A publication of the Hawai‘i State Office of Planning, pursuant to Act 146, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019.

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/annuals/2022-dbedt-lep.pdf) ---
STATE  OF HAWAII  
 
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS , ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
AND TOURISM  
  
 
LIMITED ENGLISH 
PROFICIENCY PLAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   2 DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS , ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT & TOURISM  
LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY PLAN 
 
INTRODUCTION  
Hawaii’s population is a diverse blend of people and cultures with many speaking a language 
other than English at home. They may have a limited ability to read, write, speak, or understand English. The Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT)  has 
developed this plan to ex hibit commitment to ensure  equal access to L imited English P roficiency 
(LEP)  customers.  
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY 
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000d (“ Title VI ”) serves as the basis for 
Executive Order 13166.  Title VI provides that no person shall “on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.”  DBEDT  
receive s Federal funding from the U.S. Department of Energy and other Federal agencies , so 
Title VI applies to D BEDT  operations.  Accordingly, we  seek to implement the initiatives set 
forth in this LEP  Plan to meet its obligations  under Title VI.   The purpose of this LEP Plan is to 
take reasonable steps to ensure persons with limited English proficiency gain meaningful access to DBEDT  services and programs.  
 The President signed on August 11, 2000, Executive Order 13166, on Improving Access to Services for Pers ons With Limited English Proficiency.” All agencies receiving federal funds 
shall examine the services they provide, identify any need for services, and develop and implement a system to provide those services so LEP persons can have meaningful access to them.  
 The Hawai’i State Legislature enacted the Hawai’i’s Language Access Law on July 10, 2006 to further reduce language barriers that can preclude individuals who have LEP from meaningful access to services, programs, and activities offered by the State of Hawai’i or by state -funded 
programs. Hawaii Revised Statutes, Chapter 321C, Office of Language Access,  requires each 
State agency or covered entity to establish a language access plan.  
 
DEFINITION  OF LIMITED  ENGLISH  PROFICIENT PERSONS/C USTOMERS 
For purposes of this LEP Plan, LEP persons or LEP customers mean individuals who do not speak English as their primary language and who have a limited ability to read, write, speak, or understand English.  Such persons may be eligible to receive language assistanc e with respect to 
a particular service, benefit , or encounter, including vital agency- specif ic information related to 
COVID-19. 
 
RELEVANT FACTORS  
The U.S. Department of Justice LEP Guidance requires recipients of Federal and State funds to take reasonable steps to provide effective and meaningful access to LEP persons to agency 
programs, services , and vital agency -specif ic information related to C OVID -19. To determine if 
language access services must be provided, and if so, the extent of those services, requires an  3 individualized analysis that balances the following 4 factors  (68 FR 32290, 32294 May  29, 
2003): 
1. The number or proportion of LEP persons eligible to be served or likely to be 
encountered by the program; 
 
2. The frequency with which LEP persons come into contact with the program; 
 
3. The nature and importance of the program, activity, or service provided by the 
program to LEP persons; and 
 
4. The resources available to the program and the costs of providing 
interpretation/translation services.  
 
The touchstone of this four- factor analysis is reasonableness , measured by balancing : 
1. The size, needs, and the nature of assistance to the LEP population served; and  
 
2. D BEDT ’s capacity and available resources.  
 The analysis can result in  a combination of LEP services. Oral interpretation (in person or via 
telephone) and written translation are examples of main ways to provide language services. Decisions regarding oral interpretation and written translation services under the following LEP Plan shall be guided by the analysis.  
  
SUMMARY  
This LEP Plan is comprised of seven (7) components that  are explained on the following pages : 
1. Development of a reporting system designed to obtain key information about the LEP 
population who use D BEDT  services;  
 
2. Compilation of multi- lingual listing of our employees;  
 
3. Notice of interpretation/translation services for qualified LEP customers;  
 
4. Providing interpretation/translation services for qualified LEP customers; 
 
5. Designation of a LEP Plan Coordinator;  
 
6. Training our staff on the implementation of this plan ; and  
 7.  Seek ing stakeholder’s input, review, and revision of the LEP plan. 
  
LEP  PLAN 
 
I. D EVELOPMENT OF A REPORTING SYSTEM TO OBTAIN KEY INFORMATION 
ABOUT THE LEP  CUSTOMERS WHO USE DBEDT  SERVICES   4 In order to provide meaningful access to LEP customers, we  will first seek to gather 
information about what languages the y speak, what DBEDT  services they use, and 
the frequency in which they use these services.  
 
A survey form was  designed to collect the i nformation necessary to enable us to 
render meaningful access to LEP customers who use our services.  This form seeks to 
collect, among other things, the following information:  (1) the kinds of languages 
that LEP customers need translated; (2) the kinds o f DBEDT services used by LEP 
customers; and (3) the frequency in which LEP customers use certain DBEDT  
services.   DBEDT P ersonnel Staff is responsible for establishing a procedure for our  
Division s/Agencies/ Offices  to complete the form , compil ing the data on a semi -
annual  basis , and providing a rep ort to the LEP Plan Coordinator . This data is used to 
complete the Language Access Reporting Tool (Appendix A).  
 
II. COMPILATION OF MULTI-LINGUAL LISTING OF DBEDT  EMPLOYEES  
To effectively service LEP customers, we must ascertain what language skills and resources D BEDT  may already have available through its employees.   
 
We will be gathering information on languages that  DBEDT employee s can speak 
and/or read, the degree of fluency in those identified languages, and contact information for those  employee s.  The information is listed as A ppendix E .  An 
employee on the  list may be conta cted when a LEP customer of  DBEDT  services 
needs language assistance.   
 
Although a n employee may not be fluent in a particular languag e, depending on the 
circumstances, that employee’s language skills may facilitate a certain comfort level that may contri bute significantly to meeting a LEP customer’s needs.  
 
III. NOTIFICATION OF INTERPRETATION /TRANSLATION SERVICES FOR LEP  
CUSTOMERS  
A.  OFFICE  NOTICE  
LEP persons have the right to free language assistance in their spoken language. The Hawai’i Office of Lang uage Access (OLA) developed a poster listing 
languages that are likely to be the primary languages spoken by LEP persons in Hawai’i.  The intent of the poster is for the LEP person to point to the poster 
indicating the language they understand.  The  poster indicates  that D BEDT 
provides free interpretation services  and shall be placed in a prominent place in 
our offices having contact with the public.  A copy of this poster is  attached as 
Appendix D . 
  
B. NOTICE  FOR REQUESTING  WRITTEN  TRANSLATION   
Additionall y, a written notice will be attached to documents that each  
Division /Agency/ Office Administrator believes is important and/or believes,  
through the experiences of his /her program , needs to be  translated.  The notice  
will invite  a person who needs translati on of a D BEDT  document to contact our   5 LEP Plan Coordinator.  The notice is attached as A ppendix C . 
 
IV. PROVIDING INTERPRETATION /TRANSL ATION SERVICES FOR LEP  
CUSTOMERS  
A. ORAL  INTERPRETATION  
In the course of serving our LEP c ustomers , situations may arise where they  are 
unable to negotiate through DBEDT  programs without the assistance of 
interpreters in their preferred language.  To ensur e that the inability to 
communicate in English does not deprive the public of rights and privileges, we 
will provide an i nterpreter, at no cost to LEP customers , pursuant to the 
following procedures : 
 
1. In Person  
If a customer approaches a D BEDT  employee and appears to be asking for 
help, but has difficulty communicating what he or she needs, then the employee should attempt to determine what language that person speaks.  
If that language cannot be readily determined, the  employee should use the 
poster men tioned in III.A. to  find out what language the customer speaks.  
The employee should encourage the customer  to point to t he language for  
which he /she needs an interpreter.  
 
As a general rule, a competent , in-person interpreter is preferred over a 
telephone  one.  Accordingly, if the c ustomer  points to a language on the 
poster, then the D BEDT  employee should refer to the multi- lingual listing 
of our  employees mentioned in II. and contact an available interpreter 
within the employee’s  own  office.  If no one is  available to interpret 
within that office, then the employee should attempt to contact an interpreter in the proximity o f his/her own office (i.e., on the same floor).  
If no one in the proximity of the office is available, then the employee should contact an interpreter within DBEDT .  If no one is available within 
the Department, then the employee  should contact an approve d language 
service vendor (Appendix F) . 
 
DBEDT has contracted and made available telephone interpreters for use 
department wide to assi st LEP persons (Appendix F). The employee will 
call an approved language service vendor and give the account number (if 
needed) and the interpreter will be connected to the call. The cost for oral interpretation shall be covered by the Division or Agency.  
 
At the end of the service provided, the DBEDT employee shall do a 
Limited English Proficiency Questionnaire  (Appendix B ).  DBEDT  
Divisions/ Agencies/ Offices shall complete the questionnaire  and submit it 
to our LEP Plan Coordinator within 15 days after the  end of each month.  
 
2. Telephone Calls  
If a D BEDT  employee receives  a telephone call from a LEP customer or a  6 representative of a LEP customer needing oral translation, then the 
employee should attempt to determine what language that person speaks.  
and c ontact an available interpreter within the employee’s  own  office.  If 
no one is available to interpret within that office, then the employee should attempt to contact an interpreter in the proximity o f his/her own 
office (i.e., on the same floor).  If no one in the proximity of the office is 
available, then the employee should contact an interpreter within DBEDT .  
If no one is available within the Department, then the employee  should 
contact an approve d language service vendor (Appendix F) . The employee 
shall fill out a LEP Questionnaire after the service.  
 
B. WRITTEN  TRANSLATI ON 
As indicated in III.B, a notice regarding a request for written translation shall be 
attached to important documents in order to provide meaningful access to LEP customers and/or se nt with documents that DBEDT staff  have sufficient re ason 
to believe are addressed to a LEP customer.  
 
For example, in a matter concerning business opportunities , a flyer on product 
promotion events in China is  a document that might n ecess itate access to 
DBEDT  services.   Or with regard to exporting, informat ion on F oreign T rade 
Zone services might be another such document . 
 
When a request for a written translation is received by the LEP Plan Coordinator, the Coordinator shall  notify the D ivision /Agency/ Office which  
sent the document that such a request was made .  The Coordinator and the 
Administrator of that D ivision /Agency/ Office shall decide whether or not the 
request should be granted using the four -factor analysis discussed in the 
“R
ELEVANT FACTORS ” sect ion.  It is at the discretion of the  Coordinator and the 
Administrator to select a qualified translator.  
 
If additional staff  is required to provide language access to our LEP customers, 
as determined by the “ RELEVANT FACTORS ,” then DBEDT will  hire qualifi ed 
personnel who are bilingual to fill existing, budgeted , and vacant public contact 
positions. (Appendix F)  
 
V. DESIGNATION OF LEP  PLAN COORDINATOR  
A staff from the  DBEDT Administrative Services Office  shall serve as the LEP Plan 
Coordinator.  The Coordinator wi ll be primarily responsible for, among other things:  
1. The overall implementation of the LEP Plan; 
2. Responding to any inquir ies or comments/complaints regarding the Plan and its 
implementation;  
3. Making revisions and modifications to the Plan as  necess ary; 
4. Informing  DBEDT  staff  of the  Plan;  
5. Serving as the primary contact for LEP customers who need a written 
translation of important D BEDT  documents; and  
6. Coordinating efforts to implement, monitor , and evaluate the Plan .  7  
VI. TRAINING DBEDT  STAFF  
The LEP Plan Coordinator will be responsible for trai ning D BEDT  staff  on the Plan .  
The primary purpose is to impart the necessary background and understanding to 
implement the objectives of the Plan.  
 
       VII. SEEKING STAKEHOLDER’S INPUT, REVIEW, AND R EVISION 
The LEP Plan  Coordinator will seek input from  DBEDT Programs that assist LEP 
customers. All interested stakeholders are encouraged to contact the LEP Plan Coordinator directly. 
 
 This LEP Plan shall be reviewed and revised as needed every tw o years  in light of 
comments from LEP customers, their repre sentatives, interested stakeholders, and 
DBEDT employees.  The provisions of this Plan shall remain in place until a revised one is adopted. The Plan will be filed with the Executive Director of t he Offi ce 
Language Access.  
 
All DBEDT Division and Administratively Attached Agencies shall comply with this LEP Plan.  
              
              8  
    
 
 
 
APPENDICES  
 
 
A. Language Access Reporting Tool  
 
B. Limited English Proficiency Questionnaire  
 
C. Language Access Noti ce 
 
D. Language Poster  
 
E. Multilingual DBEDT Employee Volunteers  
 
F. Interpreter – Translation Services  
  
  APPENDIX A
Contact Person: Email: Phone:
1 2 6Bilingual Staff (Provides 
Direct Services in Another 
Language)
Community Volunteer
In-Person Contracted 
Interpreter (Agency)
In-Person Contracted 
Interpreter (Independent)
Telephone Interpreter
Other (including sight 
Translation)
# of Documents 
Translated Upon Request
# of Vital Documents 
Translated
Staff
Contracted (Agency) 
Translation Services
Contracted (Independent 
Translation Services)
Community Volunteer
Other # Only (Specify on 
Separate Sheet)Totals
(Columns 2 & 4)
Cantonese 0 0 0 0
Chuukese 0 0 0 0
Hawaiian 0 0 0 0
Ilokano 0 0 0 0
Japanese 0  0 0 0
Korean 0 0 0 0
Kosraean 0 0 0 0
LEP Hearing Impaired 0 0 0 0
Mandarin 0 0 0 0
Marshallese 0 0 0 0
Portuguese 0 0 0 0
Samoan 0 0 0 0
Spanish 0 0 0 0
Tagalog 0 0 0 0
Thai 0 0 0 0
Tongan 0 0 0 0
Vietnamese 0 0 0 0
Visayan (Cebuano) 0 0 0 0
Other Total # * 0 0 0 0
Totals 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Expenditures:
Interpretation Total $0.003 4 5LANGUAGE ACCESS REPORTING TOOL Period Covered: January - June 2023
LEP Services by Language Department: Business, Economic Development & Tourism DIV/BR/SEC/UNIT:
Steven Sung steven.s.sung@hawaii.gov 586-2562
Translation Total $0.00 Interpretation & Translation Total $0.00Language
# of Oral Language 
EncountersOral Language Service Utilized (#)Translated 
Documents (#)Translator Used (#)
*Specify Type of Other Language on a Separate Sheet 
APPENDIX B  
 
  Limited English Proficiency (LEP) Questionnaire
 
 
This questionnaire is to be completed by DBEDT employees each time they provide services to or encounter a person with LEP. 
Completed questionnaires are to be sent to the LEP Plan Coordinator (Departmental Human Resources Officer) within 15 days after the 
end of each month.  
Employee  Name :--------------------     Date:     _ 
Division/Agency/Office :----------------  
 
  
 
Name  of LEP  person  if known:  _ 
 
 
L    What is the primary language spoken by the LEP  person?  
(e.g.  Mandarin, Cantonese) llocano, Tagalog, Japanese, Korean, Samoan, etc.)  
  
 
2. List the dates and types of program services you provided this person?  
(e.g. program information, processed application, etc.)  
  
 
3. Was the pr ogram service provided within the same time frame as services provided to non- LEP 
clients?  
(Yes or No: if No. please indicate if the delay was due to need for LEP assistance?)  
 
 
 
4. How often did you provide  services to or encounter  this person?  
(e.g. one time event, weekly, monthly, etc.)  
 
 
 
5. What type of LEP services did you provide this  person?  
(e.g. oral interpretation  in person or  by phone, written translation,  none)  
 
 
 
6. Who provided the interpreter services?  
(e.g. bilingual staff, contracted  interpr eter, telephone  interpreter  service,  community  volunteer, LEP 
person's family  member,  friend,  OV\ITI   interpreter, etc.)  
 
 
 
7. Was this person satisfied with the interpreter services  provided?  
(Yes or No; if No, please explain the dissatisfaction)
