Source URL: https://defenseeconomy.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawaii Defense Economy - Dec 2021 - Hawaii Defense Economy Menu Resources Small Business Resources Hawaii Defense Alliance Cyber Hawaii Referentia Cybersecurity Requirements Partners Cyber Hawaii Honolulu Community College Apprenticeship Program Data Tools Economic Impact Top Products & Services State/County Spending Industry Trends What-If Analysis Set-Aside Growth Sub-Award Flows Sub-Award Details Leakage Analysis Spending Insights Agency Flows to Industry Segments Dollar Flows by Sub-Agency Spending Explorer Business Map Top Contractors About Reports Defense In Hawaii Past and Present News Key Installations Pacific Missile Range Facility – Kauai Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard Tripler Army Medical Center Military Branches Calendar Small Business Select Page Hawaii's Defense Economy Brings $7.9B in annual defense spending to Hawaii Image credit: PH2(NAC) John T. Parker Hawaii's Defense Economy Accounts for 8.3% of Hawaii’s GDP Image credit: Eric Tessmer Hawaii's Defense Economy Provides over 20,000 civilian jobs and 31,000 contractor jobs to our community Image credit: Senior Airman John Linzmeier Data Tools & Reports Utilize comprehensive, real-time data analysis tools and reports about Hawaii’s defense economy spending insight and impact. Access Info Hawaii Defense Alliance Check out this new organization of defense sector stakeholders and their collaborative efforts to increase DoD opportunities and promote resiliency of Hawaii’s defense economy. Learn More Hawaii Defense Economy A Community and Business Resource With billions of dollars in U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) funding invested in Hawaii each year, any changes in defense spending could have a major impact on the State’s economy. The Hawaii Defense Economy project was initiated to increase understanding and support for the defense sector and help build economic resiliency for the State. The multi-phased project is managed by the State of Hawaii Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism’s (DBEDT) Business Development and Support Division, and funded by the DoD’s Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation. Project Update DBEDT has launched Phase III of the Hawaii Defense Economy project with two Hawaii-based contractors, Referentia’s eResilience division and the Military Affairs Council (MAC) of the Chamber of Commerce Hawaii. For more information about the contractor initiatives, scroll down. Latest Hawaii Defense News New job board seeks workers for Hawaii’s defense industry The Hawaii Defense Alliance has launched a new online job board to recruit local talent for the defense sector. Click Here DBEDT Bolsters Hawaii's Defense Economy with New Projects The State of Hawaii’s Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT) is pleased to announce three new projects that will focus on strengthening and growing Hawaii’s second largest economic driver – the defense sector. View Article Pacific Shipyards International awarded $50M Navy contract The U.S. Navy recently awarded a multi-million dollar contract to Hawaii-based Pacific Shipyards International, or PSI, to service up to three Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyers. May 3, 2021 View Article Rep. Kai Kahele Wants New Missile Defense Radar System On Kauai — Not Oahu The military is weighing putting a $1.9 billion defense radar on Oahu or Kauai after Hawaii’s congressional delegation thwarted a Pentagon attempt to defund the project last year. March 21, 2021 View Article Hawaii Wants To Form A Defense Industry Alliance For Local Buisnesses Hawaii officials want to form a new organization to get more local businesses in on lucrative defense contracts — and to find ways to use military money to grow other sectors of the state’s economy. February 9, 2021 View Article Defense spending ‘incredibly important’ for Hawaii during COVID-19 pandemic Defense spending in Hawaii — about $5 billion annually in payroll and $2 billion-plus in contracts — has been “an incredibly important stabilizing force” in the state with an economy otherwise wracked by COVID-19. January 10, 2021 View Article Many reasons to support Pohakuloa Training Area The Hawaii Island Chamber of Commerce, Japanese Chamber of Commerce & Industry of Hawaii and the Kona-Kohala Chamber of Commerce fully support the U.S. military’s training mission at Pohakuloa Training Area. November 1, 2020 View Article Hawaii companies awarded $337M in military contracts in August The largest was a $245 million contract shared by six companies, including four from Hawaii, for Navy construction projects over the next five years. August 28, 2020 View Article Navy expedites waterborne drones to close gap with China Your content goes here. Edit or remove this text inline or in the module Content settings. You can also style every aspect of this content in the module Design settings and even apply custom CSS to this text in the module Advanced settings. Read More Disclaimers: This project was developed under contract with the State of Hawaii, through the Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism (DBEDT) with financial support from the U.S. Department of Defense – Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation. The content reflects the views of the State of Hawaii and does not necessarily reflect the views of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation or the U.S. Department of Defense. The Hawaii Defense Economy content is primarily based on contracts, grants, and assistance transactions reported in USA Spending where Place of Performance was listed as Hawaii. Steps have been taken to present the most relevant and accurate data on the types, levels of and impacts of defense contracts, based on the USA Spending data, however it is still limited in its completeness and quality. Work has been done to clean the data provided by USA Spending. Contractors and Grantee Recipients are revising and providing more accurate information on an ongoing basis. This site will continue to evolve as better data and procedures are available. See the USAspending.gov FAQ page for more information on this data set. This website recognizes the use of diacritical markings of the (modern) Hawaiian language including the ‘okina [‘] or glottal stop and the kahakō [ō] or macron. However, you may notice these diacritical markings have been omitted throughout the website to ensure the best online experience for our visitors. This website recognizes the importance of using these markings and respectfully uses them in other communications beyond the online platform.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
