Source URL: https://dle.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Department of Law Enforcement Skip to Main Content Hawaii.gov An official website of the State of Hawaiʻi Search for: Search for: State of Hawaii Department of Law Enforcement KA’OIHANA HO’OKŌ KĀNĀWAI Home About Us Office of the Director Administration Division Law Enforcement Division Office of Homeland Security Division Office of the Inspector General CALEA Office Division Resources UIPA Request Reports Administrative Rules Policies and Procedures Private Process Servers Sheriffs Chaplaincy Program & Chaplains Corps Programs News Releases Careers Jobs Deputy Sheriffs Employment Department of Law Enforcement Home Page DEPARTMENT OF LAW ENFORCEMENT KA’OIHANA HO’OKŌ KĀNĀWAI The Department of Law Enforcement is the centralization of state law enforcement functions in Hawaii with the goal of enhancing public safety. This involves enforcing the Uniform Controlled Substance Act and investigating violations of relevant statutes and rules. The department oversees various administrative aspects, including program planning, budgeting, accounting, procurement, and human resources, adhering to applicable laws and regulations. As the primary law enforcement entity, the department aims to preserve public peace, prevent crime, and protect individuals and property. It administers statewide programs to ensure public safety, safeguard state property, and enforce laws. Additionally, the department conducts criminal investigations involving its own employees or against its property. A significant focus is placed on the development, coordination, and implementation of a comprehensive Homeland Security program for the state. This involves collaboration with federal, state, county, and private sector stakeholders to address security concerns and ensure the safety of the state of Hawaii. To report gun crimes, please text or call (808)-427-4018 All calls will be kept confidential. You may remain anonymous. Please call or submit tip information below to include the following: The names of the people involved. The descriptions of the people involved. Where the people involved may be located? What kind(s) of guns are involved? The license plates and descriptions of any vehicles involved. Detailed information about gun crimes that can assist investigators. If you desire to be called back, your name and telephone number All tips are anonymous unless the submitter provides their contact information. In case of an emergency, please call 911. Go to: GetSaferWatch.com to Download the free app today and get the real-time updates from DLE. To report illegal fireworks sellers, please call (808)-517-2182 All calls will be kept confidential. You may remain anonymous. After-hours and on weekends, please leave a detailed message about illegal fireworks sellers including: The names of the people involved. The descriptions of the people involved. Where the people involved may be located? What kind(s) of fireworks being sold? Where the illegal fireworks are being sold? The license plates and descriptions of any vehicles involved. Detailed information about any shipments of illegal fireworks into Hawaii. If you desire to be called back, your name and telephone number TO REPORT FIREWORKS NOISE OR FIREWORKS BEING ILLEGALLY SET OFF, please call the police department at 911. Mission To stand for safety with respect for all by engaging in just, transparent, unbiased and responsive Law Enforcement, to do so we the spirit of Aloha and dignity and in collaboration with the community; and maintain and build trust and respect as the guardian of constitutional and human rights. Department Goals To protect the individual and property from injury and loss caused by criminal actions by providing and coordinating services, facilities, and legislation to preserve the peace; enforce specific laws, rules, and regulations to prevent and control crime; prevent and deter crimes; and serve the legal process. Core Values RESPECT : Treating everyone with Aloha, honoring the rights of all individuals INTEGRITY : As a law enforcement agency of character and principle we are guided by a moral compass in all of our decisions COLLABORATION : Build strong partnerships with the community and first response agencies for addressing community-wide challenges that impact community welfare DIVERSITY : We embrace the strength of diversity in our employees and our communities. GUN BUYBACK PROGRAM EVENT SUCCESS!!! The second O‘ahu gun buyback event was a significant success, with 514 firearms and numerous rounds of ammunition turned in, including fully automatic assault pistols, assault rifles, semi-automatic rifles, handguns, revolvers, shotguns, ghost guns, and Glock switches. The event, held at Aloha Stadium, saw strong community participation, with 531 gift cards totaling $53,100 distributed to those surrendering firearms. The program operated under an amnesty policy, requiring no identification, and accepted both working and non-working firearms. This initiative, funded by the 2024 Hawaiʻi Legislature, is part of a broader effort to combat gun violence and promote safety across Hawaiʻi, with plans for future events underway. Uniform Information Practices Act (UIPA) Request If you are seeking access to government records from the Department of Law Enforcement under the Uniform Act, click below. Request to Access Government Records Join, Work And Succeed. DEPUTY SHERIFFS Deputy Sheriffs are the core law enforcement staff of the Sheriff Division. State Sheriff : the head of the Sheriff Division. They are exempt from civil service and serve at the pleasure of the Director. First Deputy Sheriff : the second-in-command of the Sheriff Division, they assist the Sheriff with management of the division and all of its activities. Deputy Sheriff V : a branch Captain, responsible for all operations, activities, and administrative matters of their branch. Deputy Sheriff IV (Lieutenant): the second level full supervisor who manages a major law enforcement function with multiple subordinate supervisors. Deputy Sheriff III (Sergeant): the first level supervisor who is engaged in field supervision of their assigned work shift. Deputy Sheriff II : the regular working level. Deputy Sheriff I : a trainee level, deputies of this rank are still enrolled in training in a law enforcement academy. APPLY NOW INVESTIGATORS Investigators have the powers and privileges of police officers with statewide jurisdiction to effect arrest and conduct investigations. Investigator VI (Detective Lieutenant): the full management level, responsible for all operations, activities, and administrative matters of their major organizational component. Investigator V (Detective Sergeant): an expert working level who, depending on assignment, may also have supervisory responsibilities. This rank is divided into two distinct types: Type A : a supervisor who has full responsibility of a specific investigative program (e.g. welfare fraud) and has at least one subordinate of the Investigator IV level (type A or C). Type B : an investigator who conducts complex investigations falling within a variety of jurisdictions and program areas, and where facts and evidence are not generally easily found. Investigator IV : an advanced working level who, depending on assignment, may also have supervisory responsibilities. This rank is divided into three distinct types: Type A : an investigator who conducts complex investigations, but which are related to only one program area (e.g. welfare fraud). Type B : one or two investigators who have full responsibility of a small investigative program. Type C : a supervisor who supervises, and conducts, investigations of violations which are expected to involve only a few or no controversial issues, and where facts and evidence are easily found through official records. Investigator III : the first regular working level, they conduct investigations of violations which are expected to involve only a few or no controversial issues, and where facts and evidence are easily found through official records. Investigator II : advanced trainee level, they work with higher level investigators on cases which are limited in nature and scope. Investigator I : first trainee level, they mainly observe higher level investigators while learning applicable laws, regulations, and processes relating to their duties. APPLY NOW PROGRAMS The Department of Law Enforcement (LAW) plays a crucial role in promoting public safety and addressing various law enforcement department challenges. While specific programs may vary by jurisdiction, the typically engages in initiatives aimed at crime prevention, community outreach, and the enhancement of overall law enforcement effectiveness. BUYBACK SUCCESS: HUNDREDS OF GUNS TURNED IN FOR GROCERIES The Department of Law Enforcement (DLE), in partnership with the Office of the Governor, the Department of the Attorney General, the Honolulu Police Department, and Honolulu Emergency Services, successfully hosted O‘ahu’s second community gun buyback event. This initiative aims to reduce gun violence and enhance community safety by encouraging residents to voluntarily surrender firearms, ammunition, and related items. Read More “SAY HI” PROGRAM Today’s event “SAY HI” program was very successful. We were joined by HPD’s District 3 command, patrol and Community Policing, Narcotics K9, SSD K9 and Solo Bikes. We had approximately 150 students ranging from kindergarten to 2nd grade. This was our 5th year and it was awesome and rewarding to interact with the children and teaching staff and also with fellow law enforcement officers. We hope that our continued presence throughout the schools and communities, educating the public, will have a long lasting impression. Read More CELEBRATE SAFE COMMUNITIES Our department has been invited again to the event at Pearl Ridge Center near TJ Maxx called, “Celebrate Safe Communities” sponsored by the US Attorney’s Office, the State AG’s Office the C&C Pros Office, Weed and Seed and HPD who for the second year (in recent years). Again, we have risen to the occasion and provided the community with information and lots of visual aids to educated them as to what we do for them and how we help keep Hawaii safe and happy! Read More TASK FORCE SUCCESSFULLY SEIZES OVER 187,000 POUNDS OF ILLEGAL FIREWORKS The Department of Law Enforcement (LAW) has announced yet another significant achievement in its ongoing efforts to combat the illegal fireworks trade. The Illegal Fireworks Task Force, comprised of state and federal agencies, has successfully intercepted and seized a total of 187,000 pounds of illegal fireworks in all separate operations as of today. Read More OʻAHU COMMUNITY GUN BUYBACK PROGRAM OFFERS GIFT CARDS FOR GUNS In a pioneering move to enhance community safety and combat gun violence, the Department of Law Enforcement (LAW) and Department of Public Safety (PSD), in collaboration with key government agencies, recently spearheaded the state’s inaugural Oʻahu Gun Buyback Program. The event, held from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., aimed to encourage residents to voluntarily surrender unwanted firearms in exchange for gift cards, with no questions asked and no identification required. Read More Footer Content ABOUT The Department of Law Enforcement is the centralization of state law enforcement functions in Hawaii with the goal of enhancing public safety. This involves enforcing the Uniform Controlled Substance Act and investigating violations of Read More... CONTACT Department of Law Enforcement Jordan Lowe Director 715 South King Street Honolulu, HI 96813 TEL: (808) 587-5045 [email protected] LINKS Home About Us Resources Programs News Releases Careers HAWAII.GOV Government Directory Online Services Social Media State Calendar Alerts An official website of the State of Hawaiʻi Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 , State of Hawaiʻi. All rights reserved

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
