Source URL: https://fire.honolulu.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Honolulu Fire Department Honolulu Fire Department Ka ʻOihana Kinai Ahi Fire and Life Safety Safety Tips Business Home Keiki Fire Fighter’s Safety Guide Activity Worksheets Kupuna Fire Code Permits Firecrackers Inspections Sprinklers About Mission & Values Honolulu Fire Department Fire Chiefs Organization Administrative Services Bureau Planning and Development Fire Operations Support Services Join HFD FAQ Fire Commission Requests News & Info Menu Fire and Life Safety Safety Tips Business Home Keiki Fire Fighter’s Safety Guide Activity Worksheets Kupuna Fire Code Permits Firecrackers Inspections Sprinklers About Mission & Values Honolulu Fire Department Fire Chiefs Organization Administrative Services Bureau Planning and Development Fire Operations Support Services Join HFD FAQ Fire Commission Requests News & Info Search Search Close this search box. Public Safety Power Shutoffs (PSPS) on Oʻahu The Hawaiian Electric Company’s (HECO) Public Safety Power Shutoff (PSPS) program is a method of wildfire prevention that involves temporarily turning off the power to certain high-risk areas during extreme and potentially dangerous weather conditions. Typically, those weather conditions involve strong winds, low humidity and very dry vegetation — all of which can elevate the risk of wildfire. HECO PSPS O'ahu PSPS Prevent Wildfires Fire and Life Safety Resources to help you reduce the risk of fire or injury in your home. Learn More Fire Code Information on fireworks, inspections, permits, licensing and fees. Explore the fire code Requests Request fire and life safety education or fire related reports and records. Submit Request Discover Resources Home The information you need to keep your home and loved ones safe. See Home Resources Business Ensure a safe work environment for employees and patrons by adhering to the fire code. See Business Resources Keiki Explore fun activities to engage our kids in learning fire safety See Resources for Kids Kupuna Implement fire and fall prevention measures to minimize injury and death. See Resources for Older Adults Common Questions Here are a few commonly asked questions about the Honolulu Fire Department. Want to learn more? Read the full list of frequently asked questions . How do I obtain a fire incident report? Please complete and submit the online request form . How can I obtain a firecrackers permit? A firecracker permit and a valid identification is required to purchase and use firecrackers on Oahu. Please visit the Honolulu Fire Department Firecracker E-Permit System to view the rules and regulations and submit your request. The paper permit application process was discontinued. Who do I call before lighting an imu or cooking fire? Call the Fire Communication Center at 808-723-3473. How can I request a fire apparatus for an event? Please complete and submit the online request form at least four weeks prior to your event. Should you have questions, please call our Community Relations/Education section at 808-723-7168. How can I find out about employment opportunities? Please visit the City and County of Honolulu, Department of Human Resources' Job Opportunities page for step-by-step instructions on how to apply online and a list of available jobs. Complete the online Job Interest Card to receive an e-mail notification for selected job categories. Select “Fire & EMS'' for the Honolulu Fire Department fire fighter recruitment. still have a question? Click here to see the full FAQ Community Connections See more on our Facebook Page Quick Links Fire and Life Safety Business Keiki (Children) Home Kupuna (Older Adults) Fire and Life Safety Business Keiki (Children) Home Kupuna (Older Adults) Fire Code Permits Firecrackers Inspections Fire Code Permits Firecrackers Inspections About Administrative Services Bureau Planning and Development Fire Operations Support Services About Administrative Services Bureau Planning and Development Fire Operations Support Services Honolulu Fire Commission Retirees News & Info FAQ Honolulu Fire Commission Retirees News & Info FAQ Honolulu Fire Department Sheldon K. Hao Fire Chief Kahu Kinai Ahi Jason Samala Deputy Fire Chief Hope Kahu Kinai Ahi 636 South Street Honolulu, HI 96813 (808) 723-7139 Copyright ©2024, Honolulu Fire Department, All Rights Reserved Honolulu.gov Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Honolulu.gov Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
