Source URL: https://investorrelations.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Investor Relations Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaiʻi Investor Relations Search this site Search Home B&F DHHL Airports Harbors Highways DBEDT HHFDC UH Board of Regents E Komo Mai Welcome to the State of Hawaiʻi’s Investor Relations information page. We hope that you find the information helpful and beneficial for your needs. Type of Debt Fitch Moody’s S&P Department of Budget & Finance (BF) General Obligation Bonds AA Aa2 AA+ Certificates of Participation N/A N/A N/A Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL) Revenue Bonds A A1 N/A Certificates of Participation N/A Aa3 N/A Department of Transportation (DOT) Airport System Revenue Bonds A+ A1 AA- Airport Certificates of Participation A A2 A+ Airport System Customer Facility Charge Revenue Bonds A A2 A+ Harbor System Revenue Bonds A+ A2 AA- Highway System Revenue Bonds AA Aa2 AA+ Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism – Hawaiʻi Housing Finance & Development Corp. (HHFDC) Rental Housing System Revenue Bonds A A1 N/A Single Family Revenue Bonds AAA Aaa AA+ Board of Regents of the University of Hawaiʻi (UH) Revenue Bonds AA Aa3 N/A Independent Registered Municipal Advisor (IRMA) State of Hawaii Debt Management Policy State of Hawaii General Obligation Bonds – Voluntary Notice of Potential Financing Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved. Disclaimer Disclaimer Investor Relations, State of Hawaii, Division of Budget & Finance This investor relations website of the State of Hawaii, Department of Budget and Finance, provides access to the electronic version of selected State of Hawaii municipal bond program information. Your access and use of this website is subject to the following terms and conditions and all applicable laws. By accessing and browsing this website, you accept these terms and conditions without limitation or qualification. The only information that is posted with the intention of reaching the investing public, including bondholders, rating analysts, financial advisors, or any other members of the investor relations investment community, is located on this investor relations website. The information in this website is not intended to serve as legal, accounting or tax advice or to replace any information or consultation provided by a professional financial advisor. There may be other documents containing relevant information regarding the State which may be available from other sources. All information contained in this website either is supplied by the State or is obtained from other sources believed to be accurate and reliable. Due to the possibility of human or mechanical error as well as other factors, the information obtained from other sources is provided “as is” without warranty, express or implied, of any kind and the State makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of this other information. In addition, the State makes no warranty, express or implied, as to the adequacy or fitness of any information at this website for any particular use. No person should make any investment decision solely in reliance upon the information contained herein. This website and the information contained herein do not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities. The State currently anticipates that the disclosure documents prepared from time to time in connection with the offering and sale of securities by it may contain information updating or supplementing some of the information presented at this website. In addition, certain financial information and operating data, as well as information regarding certain material developments respecting the State and securities from time to time issued by it, may be filed with EMMA, the Electronic Municipal Market Access portal of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. The State in its discretion will determine whether to include such updated information at this website or to otherwise supplement, update or modify the information at this website. The information in each document or file at this website is dated as of the date or dates indicated, and the State disclaims any duty or obligation either to update the information contained at this website or to maintain the availability of such information. In addition, the State may remove any of this information from this website at any time. The information at this website may contain statements which, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute “forward-looking statements.” In this respect, the words “estimate”, “project”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”, “believe” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. A number of important factors affecting the State and its affairs could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. Information on this website may include links to websites operated by or on behalf of other State departments and agencies, and these websites themselves may contain links to sites other than those operated by or on behalf of the State or its departments and agencies. These links to third party sites are for your convenience only and are not an endorsement or recommendation of those sites. The State does not control or provide any content or information at these third party sites, makes no representation or warranty of any kind with respect to these third party sites or their content and does not maintain, operate, or take responsibility for what appears there. The State does not endorse and is not responsible for the accuracy or reliability of such content or information and any use thereof is solely at the user’s risk. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Hawaii, without giving effect to any principles of conflict of laws. You agree that any action at law or equity arising out of or relating to these terms shall be filed only in the state or federal court located in Honolulu, Hawaii and you hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction of such court for the purposes of litigating any such action. If any of these terms or provisions shall be deemed unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable, then that term or provision shall be deemed severable from the remaining terms and provisions and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining terms and provisions. This is the entire agreement relating to the subject matter herein and shall not be modified except in writing and signed by all authorized parties. From time to time, operation of the website may be interrupted by scheduled maintenance such as software updates. The State does not warrant the availability of this website, and disclaims all liability in respect to loss or damage incurred by a user that results, directly or indirectly, from loss of service, malfunction, or failure of the website, or any other cause connected with your use of the website. Because this website is frequently under development, materials and information may be deleted, modified or moved to a different part of the website without advance notice. Under no circumstances shall the State have any liability to any person or entity for (1) any improper or incorrect use of the materials or information contained on this website and assumes no responsibility for any user’s use of them, (2) any loss or damage in whole or part caused by, resulting from or relating to any error (neglect or otherwise) or other circumstances involved in procuring, collecting, compiling, interpreting, analyzing, editing, transcribing, communicating or delivering any information at this website, or (3) any direct, indirect, special, consequential, exemplary or incidental damages whatsoever (including but not limited to business interruption or loss of use, data or profits), regardless of cause, and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this website or the materials and information contained on this website, even if the State is advised in advance of the possibility of such damages, resulting from the use of, or inability to use, any such information or (4) any loss or damage caused by viruses contained within electronic files at this website. This disclaimer of liability applies to any damages or injury, including but not limited to those caused by any failure of performance, error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay, computer virus, communication line failure, theft, or destruction of data, whether for breach of contract, tortious behavior, negligence, or under any other cause of action. To the extent permitted by applicable law, by using the State’s website, the user agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless, the State, its agencies, officers, employees, representatives, and agents from and against all claims and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, arising out of the user’s use of this website or materials and information contained on this site. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF DISCLAIMER I have read the foregoing disclaimer and expressly agree to each of its terms.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://investorrelations.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/IRMA-language-for-BF-Website-FY-2016-rev-6-2015.pdf) ---
Independent Registered Municipal Advisor (IRMA)  
 
The State of Hawaii (SOH)  is aware of the “Municipal Advisor Rule” of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (eff ective July 1, 2014) and the “independent registered municipal 
advisor exemption ” from the definition of “municipal advisor ”.  By this public posting, the  SOH 
hereby notifies  all investment banking firms that it wishes them to c ontinue to provide  
recommendation s on all aspects concerning the issuance of municipal securities and municipal 
finance product s (including the investment of bond proceeds and escrow investments) that are 
particularized to the specific needs of SOH departments and agencies, including, but not limited 
to, the following:     
 
Department of Accounting and General Services  
Department of Budget and Finance  
Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism  
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands  
Department of Transportation – Airports, Harbors, an d Highways Divisions  
University of Hawaii  
 
The SOH is represented by  and will rely on the advice of its independent registered municipal 
advisor, Public Financial Management, Inc. , which it retained to, among othe r things, assist the 
SOH in evaluating any and all of such recommendations.  The personnel of Public Financial 
Management who will advise  the SOH on such recommendations, or who will supervise, direct 
or manage such personnel on this matter, have represented to the SOH that they have not been 
assoc iated with an investment banking firm within two years prior to the date of this certificate.  
This certificate may be relied upon until June 30, 201 6.  
 
Proposals shall be addressed to the particular SOH department or agency.  The department or 
agency will share the document with the municipal advisor if the department or agency deems 
appropriate.  Please note that aside from regulatory mandated correspondence between an 
underwriter and municipal advisor, the underwriter should not speak directly with o r send 
documents directly to the municipal advisor unless specifically directed to by the particular SOH 
department or agency.  
 
Please direct any questions regarding this certificate to the person listed below:  
 
Mr. Scott A. Kami  
Administrator, Financial A dministration Division  
State of Hawaii  
Department of Budget and Finance  
 (808) 586 -1612  
scott.a.kami@hawaii.gov  
 
 
Revised – June 2015

--- Text from PDF (https://investorrelations.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Independent-Registered-Municipal-Advisor-IRMA.pdf) ---
Independent Registered Municipal Advisor (IRMA) 
The State of Hawaii (SOH) is aware of the “Municipal Advisor Rule” of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (effective July 1, 2014) and the “independent registered municipal 
advisor exemption” from the definition of “municipal advisor”. By this public posting, the SOH 
hereby notifies all investment banking firms and financial institutions that it wishes them to 
continue to provide recommendation s on all aspects concerning the issuance of municipal 
securities and municipal finance product s (including the investment of bond proceeds and escrow 
investments ) that are particularized to the specific needs of SOH departments and agencies, 
including, but not limited to, the following: 
Department of Accounting and General Services 
Department of Budget and Finance 
Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism 
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands 
Department of Transportation – Airports, Harbors, and Highways Divisions 
University of Hawaii 
The SOH is represented by and will rely on the advice of its independent registered municipal 
advisor, PFM Financial Advisors LLC, which it retained to, among other things, assist the SOH 
in evaluating any and all of such recommendations.  The personnel of PFM Financial Advisors 
LLC who will advise the SOH on such recommendations, or who will supervise, direct or 
manage such personnel on this matter, have represented to the SOH that they have not been 
associated with an investment banking firm within two years prior to the date of this certificate.   
This certificate may be relied upon until August 31, 2025.   
Proposals shall be addressed to the particular SOH department or agency with a copy to the 
Administrator, Financial Administration Division, Department of Budget and Finance (the 
“Department”) .   The Department will share the document with the municipal advisor if the 
Departmen t deems appropriate or if requested by the particular SOH department o r 
agency . Please note that aside from regulatory mandated correspondence between an 
underwriter and municipal advisor, the underwriter should not speak directly with or send 
documents directly to the municipal advisor unless specifically directed to by the Department . 
Please direct any questions regarding this certificate to the person listed below: 
Roderick K. Becker   
Administrator, Financial Administration Division 
State of Hawaii 
Department of Budget and Finance 
(808) 586-1612 
roderick.k.becker@hawaii.gov 
Revise d July 2023

--- Text from PDF (https://investorrelations.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/Debt-Management-Policy-FINAL-dated-12-13-16-clean.pdf) ---
State of Hawaii  
Debt Management Policy  
      
 
 
12/13/2016  
 
 
 
   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   1 
 Table of Contents  
I. Goals and Objectives  ......................................................................................................................... 2 
II. Scope and Authority .......................................................................................................................... 2 
III. Administration of Debt Policy  ........................................................................................................... 2 
IV. Debt Limits  ........................................................................................................................................ 3 
A. Purpose of Debt  ............................................................................................................................ 3 
B. State Financing Programs  ............................................................................................................. 4 
C. Legal/Statutory Limits  ................................................................................................................... 7 
D. Financial Limits  .............................................................................................................................. 8 
V. Debt Structuring ................................................................................................................................ 8 
A. Types of Debt  ................................................................................................................................ 8 
B. Debt Structure Elements  ............................................................................................................. 11 
C. Use of Derivatives  ....................................................................................................................... 13 
VI. Debt Issuance  .................................................................................................................................. 14 
A. Procedure  .................................................................................................................................... 14 
B. Professional Services  ................................................................................................................... 14 
C. Method of Sale  ............................................................................................................................ 16 
D. Pricing  .......................................................................................................................................... 17 
E. Refunding .................................................................................................................................... 18 
VII. Debt Management  .......................................................................................................................... 20 
A. Credit Objectives and Ratings Strategy  ....................................................................................... 20 
B. Investor Relations  ....................................................................................................................... 21 
C. Arbitrage Rebate Monitoring and Filing  ..................................................................................... 21 
D. Tax Compliance  ........................................................................................................................... 21 
E. Continu ing Disclosure  ................................................................................................................. 21 
F. Investment of Bond Proceeds and Reserve Funds  ..................................................................... 22 
G. Risk Management  ....................................................................................................................... 22 
VIII. Exceptions to the Policy  .................................................................................................................. 23 
IX. Review and Amendments  ............................................................................................................... 23 
X. Glossary  ........................................................................................................................................... 24  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   2 
  
DEBT MANAGEMENT POLICY  
I. Goals and Objectives  
The purpose of this Debt Management Policy (Policy) is to ensure that all debt issuances undertaken by 
the State of Hawaii (State) are completed in an efficient manner and in accordance with best practices. 
This Policy reflects the intent of the State to adhere to prudent financial management practices and 
commit to lon g-term capital and financial planning.  This Policy will enable the State to foster consistency 
and optimize the use of its limited resources to meet its long -term capital needs.  
The Policy establish es clear criteria for decision making with regards to debt  issuance and debt 
management, determining reasonable thresholds and guidelines for issuance of debt , providing 
justification for the structure of debt , and reflect ing constitutional provisions and statutory limitations on 
debt to a larger audience and sta keholders . The State inten ds to use debt  efficiently to maximize the 
delivery of capital improvement projects throughout the State within acceptable levels of risk, balancing 
obtaining the best possible credit ratings, minimizing interest costs and optimiz ing future flexibility.  
II. Scope and Authority  
On June 26, 2015, Governor David Y. Ige signed Act 149 , SLH 2015 , directing the Director of Finance  to 
submit a state debt management policy  to the legislature to promote both transparency in budget -making 
and more informed decisions on capital improvement project and debt issuance authorizations , as 
recommended by the Government Finance Officers Association . The Department of Budget and Finance  
(B&F) plans, monitors and manages the issuance of State bonds.  With respect to this Policy, the term 
“Departments” includes the Department of Budget and Finance and any Department which issues or may issue debt. The Policy will be applicable to all of the Department s’ financing  programs including 
Department s that do not currently have any debt outstanding but may issue bonds in the future. The 
guidelines and parameters  on issuance of debt will be applicable to all debt obligations  and financings  of 
the State, barring specific exceptions  identified in the P olicy. Due t o the unique nature of each of the 
Department s’ financing programs, certain specific provision s of the P olicy may not be applicable to each 
financing program ; adherence to this Policy is required in applicable circumstances.  
III. Administration of Debt Policy  
Management responsibility for this Policy is delegated to the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance 
will have responsibility and authority for structuring, implementing, and managing all financing programs 
and for ensuring compliance with this Polic y. The issuance of all debt issued by Departments of the State 
should be coordinated with and overseen by the Director of Finance and the Department of Budget and Finance.   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   3 
 IV. Debt Limits  
All debt is to be issued pursuant to the provisions, restrictions and li mitations of the Hawaii Constitution 
(Haw. Const.), Hawaii Revised Statutes (HRS), bond authorizations enacted by  the legislature , other 
authorizing legal documents such as Bond C ertificates and  Bond  Resolutions , and federal requirements . 
A. Purpose of Debt  
Debt may be issued for public purposes of respective Department s as authorized by law. The proceeds 
from a debt issuance will  only be applied to the  long-term purpose or project for which the issuance  was 
approved, unless otherwise allowed by statute  (HRS §39-2). The general purposes for which debt may 
be issued include, but are not limited to : 
1. Capital projects including reconstruction and improvements  
2. Refunding of outstanding debt  
3. Cash management or interim financing (to the extent permitted by federal tax  law) 
4. Litigation settlements  
5. Unfunded pension or healthcare long -term liabilities  
6. Establishment and administration of any loan program as authorized by law  
7. Land acquisition  
8. Acquisition or purchase of physical asset s or equipment  
9. Significant capital maintenance that extends the useful life of the underlying asset  
10. Works of art  special fund  
11. Information technology or software  
12. Special purposes to finance facilities for schools and universities, child care, housing, health 
care, utilities, agriculture amon g other authorized purposes listed in HRS §39A 
13. Coverage of policies of hurricane property insurance  
Long -term debt may not be used to fund  current  operati ons and maintenance expenditures  except as 
explicitly permitted within the HRS .  
Departments must strive to only issue the amount of long -term debt necessary to fund the project or 
purpose for which the issuance was approved  and any associated financing costs.  Debt proceeds should 
be secured as close to the date of expenditure as poss ible, unless there are practical reasons to issue 
sooner, in which cases such reasons should be documented  in the letter of intent to issue State debt (see 
Section VI.  A).   
To the extent debt proceeds remain unspent after the completion of a project, the issuing Department should develop a plan to expend those proceeds on other approved projects, to pay or defease existing debt obligations, or for any other lawful purpose in a timely manner.    
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   4 
 B. State Financing  Programs  
Pursuant to HRS §26 -8, the Department of Budget and Finance manages all State financing programs. 
The following section highlights the various authorized financing program s available to the  Department s, 
many of which consist of active programs under which debt has been issued and is currently outstanding.  
1. General Obligation  Bonds  
The Director of Finance , with the approval of the G overnor, may issue general obligation (GO) bonds  
(HRS §39 Part I ). All GO bonds are secured by  the full faith and credit of the State , and the State must 
take action to ensure that sufficient revenues will be raised and provided from time to time for the 
purpose of payment  of principal and interest on GO bonds . Interest and principal payments of the bonds 
will have  first charge on the general fund of the State.  Primary sources of general fund revenue , which 
may be applied towards GO debt service , include but are not limited to the State excise and income 
taxes.  
Reimbursable GO Bonds: Reimbursable GO bonds may be issued on behalf  of any Depart ment  subject 
to reimbursement of debt service payments from the beneficiary Department . By law, the Department is 
required to reimburse the general fund from revenues or user taxes , or both , derived from the public 
undertaking of the Department  or improvem ents that were financed by reimbursable GO bonds .  
2. Revenue Bonds  
Department s are authorized to issue revenue bonds payable solely from the revenues, or user taxes, or 
any combination of both, of a public undertaking, improvement, system or loan program  (HRS § 39 Part 
III). Revenue s include rates, rentals, fees, and charges prescribed for the use and services of, and the 
faciliti es and commodities furnished by , an undertaking. Departments may issue revenue bonds that are 
additionally backed by user taxes; h owever, such a pledge and the authority to levy user taxes must be 
authorized by the legislature (HRS §39 -53). Revenue  bonds are not  secured by the full faith and credit of 
the State. Authorization of revenue bonds may be obtained either by filing a resolu tion with the governing 
body of the Department or by a certificate of the Department Head filed with the Director of Finance (HRS 
§39-54). Pursuant to HRS § 39-68, the Director of F inance, when requested by the D epartment, will assist 
in the preparation and  sale of revenue bonds.  The following list represents the Department s’ existing 
major revenue bond financing programs.  
• Airport System Revenue Bonds :  Department of Transportation , Airports  Division (DOT -A) may 
issue airport system revenue bonds secured by  net available  revenue . Net available revenue 
represents  generally,  total operating revenues less total  operating expenses excluding  
depreciation.  
• Harbor  System Revenue Bonds : Department of Transportation , Harbors  Division ( DOT -HA) 
has the authority to issue revenue bonds pledged by total operating and non -operating revenues 
(including but not limited to rates and charges assessed in relation with the services provided) 
deposited into the Harbor Special Fund  after payment of any ope rating costs  (excluding 
depreciation) .  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   5 
 • Highway  Revenue Bonds : Department of Transportation , Highways  Division ( DOT -HI) has the 
authority to issue revenue bonds secured  by gross revenues in  the H ighway  Revenue Special 
Fund, including but not limited to high way fuel license taxes, vehicle registration fees, vehicle 
weight taxes, and various vehicle surcharge taxes . 
• Department of Hawaiian Home  Lands (DHHL ) Revenue Bonds:  DHHL is authorized to issue 
revenue bonds secured by revenues generated from Program Lands including but not limited to 
rent and other fees derived from operation o f the Program Lands.  
• Single Family Mortgage Purchase Revenue Bonds: Hawaii Housing Finance and 
Development Corporation  (HHFDC) is authorized to issue such revenue bonds payable from 
mortgage -backed pass -through securities backed by loans made to eligible borrow ers on single 
family residences in the State.  
• Hawaii Rental Housing System Revenue Bonds:  HHDFC may issue revenue bonds pledged 
by revenues (net of operating expens es) from income, rent, fees and changes derived from 
operating the rental housing program.  
• Multifamily Housing Revenue Bonds : HHFDC is authorized to issue revenue bonds on behalf 
of developers of multifamily housing projects, secured by loan payments from said developers 
under the loan agreement. Bonds issued under this financing program are excluded from any 
limitations on State debt established in this P olicy.  The authorization and  issuance of these 
bonds is governed solely by State statutes including HRS §201H.  
• University  of Hawaii Revenue Bonds : The Board of R egents,  the governing body of the 
University of Hawaii (UH) , is authorized to issue revenue bonds, including interim financing, 
commercial paper and notes for University projects subject to majority vote of the board  (HRS 
§304A Part VI) . These bonds are secured by a pledge of university system r evenues  including  
rents, fees  and charges such as tuition, room rentals and bookstore and parking revenues  net of 
any operating expenses .  
3. Financing Agreements  
Any Department  or Agency, with the approval of the Director of Finance , may enter into financing 
agreements includi ng lease purchase agreement, installment sale agreement, certificate of participation, 
loan agreement and line of credit  (HRS §3 7D). Given the nature of these obligation s, such agreements 
also require additional authorization of the Attorney General. The U niversity of Hawaii may enter into a 
financing agreement without the approval of the Director of Finance and of the Attorney General if the amount of the financing agreement is less than $3 million  (HRS §37D- 2). The statute also permits related 
agreements such as credit enhancement agreements. Obligations under the financing agreements or other related agreements are payable solely from appropriations or funds set aside in trusts that are set 
up for the specific p urposes. They are not  secured by the full faith and credit of the S tate and have no lien  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   6 
 on revenues of any Department  (HRS §37D- 1). The following list represents  the Department s’ existing 
major financing agreement programs : 
Lease Purchase Agreements:  
• DOT -Highways : Under this financing program, the annual obligation is payable from funds 
appropriated for DOT -H. 
• DOT -Airports : Under this financing program, the annual obligation is payable from funds 
appropriated for DOT -A. 
Certificates of Participation  (COP):   
• B&F COP:  Certificates issued by B&F are payable from any lawfully available funds of the S tate 
including the g eneral fund.    
• Airport COP:  Certificates issued by DOT -A under this financing program are payable  solely by  
lease rental payments and  aviation fuel tax.  
• DHHL COP: Certificates issued by DHHL are payable from funds appropriated for  DHHL  for such 
repayment .  
Special Facilit y Revenue Bonds: These bonds are secured solely from the facility rental payments 
received under the  special facility  lease agreement.  
• Airport Special Facility Revenue Bonds : Bonds issued by DOT -A under this financing program 
are payable from rental revenues collected from airlines or other related parties derived by the 
DOT -A.  
• Customer Facility Charge Revenues Bonds:  Bond s issued by DOT -A under this program 
would be payable from charges imposed on customers that rent automobiles from rental car 
companies located at the Airports and other revenues related to the rental car facilities.  
Capital Lease and Equipment Lease : Any Department  may enter into a capital lease  agreement  for 
office space  or an equipment lease  agreement , as needed , and as economically feasible .  
Loan Agreements: Any Department  may also enter into loan agreements which may be structured to 
leverage sp ecific revenue streams.  
4. Special Purpose Revenue Bonds   
Special purpose entities may issue special purpose revenue bonds to finance facilities for schools and 
universities, child care, housing, health care, utilities, agriculture among other authorized pur poses listed  
in the statutes ( HRS §3 9A). In such cases, the Department  serves as a conduit issuer and the  bonds are 
payable  solely  from rental or other payments pledged in the contract . The authorization and issuance of 
these bonds is governed solely by  State statutes and is excluded from any limitations on State debt 
established in this Policy.  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   7 
 C. Legal/ Statutory  Limits  
General Obligation Bonds  
Issuance of GO bonds is limited b y the State C onstitution . The maximum annual debt service on all 
general obligatio n debt, net of certain exceptions identified in the Constitution ( Haw. Const. art. VII § 13), 
must be less than or equal to 18.5% of average general fund revenues over the past three fiscal years. 
Exceptions include bonds that mature in the current fiscal year, debt that h as been defeased, revenue 
bonds, special purpose revenue bonds, reimbursable GO bonds, and other exceptions identified in the 
Constitution. The Director of Finance  must ascertain the fulfillment of this criteria annually a s well as  after 
each issuance of new GO debt. This statement of debt limit may be found on the State’s website 
(http://budget.hawaii.gov/finance/debt -management/debtlimit/ ). Additional GO debt can  only be issued if 
this criteria is satisfied.  
Other Obligations  
The issuance of other obligations not statutorily limited are governed by limits and provisions in 
authorizing legal documents such as bond indentures, resolutions , and certificates. Any ne w debt issued 
under an existing indenture should adhere to all constraints in the legal documents and comply with any 
tests identified in the indenture such as additional bonds test s and rate covenants. Any new financing 
program should be designed to adher e to credit rating objectives, long -term capital planning, and 
financial goals  among other factors unique to the program.  Some of the financing program s and 
corresponding authorizing certificate s which contain specific covenants and limitations are listed below . 
Any n ew financing  program undertaken by a Department will be governed by its authorizing legal 
documents.  
• Airport System Revenue Bonds  and COPs : Certificate of the Director of Transportation dated 
May 1, 1969  
• Harbor System Revenue Bonds : Bond Certificate of the Director of Transportation dated March 
1, 1997  
• Highway Revenue Bonds:  Master Certificate  of the Director of Transportation dated August 1, 
1993  
• University Revenue Bonds:  Original Resolution  adopted by the Board of Regents on November 
16, 2001 
• Single Family  Mortgage Purchase Revenue Bonds : Resolution adopted by the  Board  prior to 
each issuance  
• Housing Rental Housing System Revenue Bonds : Resolution  adopted by the Board on 
September 16, 2004  
• DHHL Revenue Bonds:  Master Bond Indenture dated  March 1, 2009 
• Green Energy Market Securitization Bonds:  Certificate of the Director of the Department of 
Business, Economic Development, and Tourism (Department that currently  houses the  Green 
Infrastructure Financing Program ) dated November 13, 2014   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   8 
 Private Activity Bond (PAB) Allocation  
The ability to issue private activity bonds is limited by a federal ceiling  defined each calendar year . Every 
PAB must be issued within the total PAB volume limitation. B&F administers the allocation of the State’s 
federal authorization among the various political subdivisions  in accordance with HRS §39B. B&F, with 
the approval of the G overnor, may assign all or any part of the allocation of the State to any issuer or any 
county for a specific calendar year or years. At the request of B&F , any issuer or county to which any part 
of the State's allocation has been assigned will return all or part of the assignment, in which case B&F 
may provide for its reassignment. Also, PABs are required to undergo an additional step o f Tax Equity 
and Fiscal Responsibility Act  (TEFRA ) approval  before such bonds can be issued.  
TEFRA  Hearing : Fede ral law requires that a public TEFRA  hearing be held at least 14 days after the 
giving of published notice apprising the public  of a proposed PAB and the nature and the location of the 
project. Following such public hearing, both the i ssuer and an appropriate elected official or legislative 
body with jurisdiction over the p roject must approve the PAB.  
D. Financial  Limits  
In addition to legal limita tions, financial and credit limitations must also be considered , such as target 
coverage levels and credit ratings goals , before issuing new debt. In conjunction with this Policy, B&F will 
undertake a Debt Affordability Study  (Study) every two years in ord er to optimize the use of limited debt 
capacity while meeting public spending goals and to ensure the prudent use of debt and to preserve 
sufficient future debt capacity. The Study analyzes the Department s’ debt profile s and presents relevant 
financial met rics to assess debt affordability. Before the issuance of any new debt, t he analysis and 
recommendations of the most recent Study  should be considered.  In particular, the financial and credit 
impact of new debt must be evaluated. Departments  will not issue  debt that they  cannot repay or that 
causes Departments  to incur undue financial risk.  
V. Debt Structuring  
A. Types of Debt  
1. Tax Status  
Department s, in conjunction with bond counsel , will structure any bonds to have the most advantageous 
tax status given the nature of the project or facility being funded and the extent to which such bond 
proceeds are used for private activity. Fully t ax-exempt bonds are the more economical option but come 
with the most restrictions . When flexibility is warranted,  Department s may utilize less restrictive taxable 
bonds  after careful consideration of the tradeoffs.   
Tax-Exempt Bonds : The interest on tax-exempt bonds is excluded from gross income for fede ral income 
tax purposes.  Department s will conservatively strive to maximize the amount of debt sold under this 
Policy using tax -exempt financing , taking into account tax considerations and the potential users and  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   9 
 beneficiaries of the projects funded from b ond proceeds. Departments  will not use the “bad money” 
allocation for tax -exempt bonds to fund projects that are not otherwise eligible for tax -exempt financing.  
Taxable Bonds : Taxable debt is issued when the facilities being financed are considered to have 
excessive “private business use” and do not qualify  as an “exempt facility” under the Tax Code (Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) . The interest on these bonds is subject to federal income tax. 
Department s will issue taxable bonds when necessa ry to finance projects that are not eligible to be 
funded by tax -exempt debt.  
AMT Bonds:  These bonds are tax -exempt bonds whose interest is subject to an alternate minimum tax  
(AMT).  Department s will utilize AMT  Bonds to finance “exempt facilities ” that are considered to have 
excessive “private business use” such as airport facilities or port facilities.  
2. Fixed Rate or Variable Rate Bonds  
Fixed Rate Bonds: Fixed rate  bonds constitute bonds  that have a  fixed rate of interest until the  stated  
maturity date . In view of cashflow predictability , fixed rate bonds will be the primary type of bonds issued 
by Departments .  
Variable Rate Bonds : Variable rate bonds bear a variable interest rate which resets periodically based 
on a predetermined index o r formula. Variable rate bonds can provide a lower borrowing cost over the 
long term than fixed rate bonds  and can provide financial flexibility,  but bear additional risks.  In 
determining the use of variable rate debt, the following factors should be considered: interest rate risk, 
liquidity risk, remarketing risk, and tax risk.  Any Department issuing variable rate debt should evaluate the 
impact of rising or considerably higher rates to verify the Department ’s ability  to pay  debt service on all 
outstanding  obligations . Department s will limit the amount of variable rate debt to no more than 20% of all 
outstanding debt for each financing program.  
3. Short -Term  Debt  
Department s may issue short -term debt  (any debt with a final maturity of five years or less ) including 
revolving loans, lines of credit , commercial paper , and bond anticipation notes,  for the following purposes : 
1. To fund projects during their initial phase when they are not generating any revenues , so as to 
minimize capitalized interest and reduce  overall cost of borrowing for the project  
2. To fund interim cash flow needs  
Commercial Paper (CP):  These are short -term obligations typically backed by a line of credit with a bank 
and have a maturity of up to 270 days. CP can be issued incrementally as fu nds are needed and then 
refunded with a bond once projects are completed to take advantage of lower short -term rates during the 
construction period.  
Revolving Loans or Line s of Credit  (HRS §37D- 9): These agreements  allow a borrower to withdraw, 
repay , and redraw funds from such a facility in any manner, up to the maximum amount agreed, and any 
number of times, until the agreement expires. Like CP, these agreements are effective interim financing 
tools.   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   10 
 Bond Anticipation Notes  (BANs) : BANs are usually used f or capital projects and are repaid from the 
proceeds of long -term bonds issued at a later date. Department s may issue BANs with a  maximum  
maturity of  five years  and maximum principal amount as authorized for the bonds  that are expected to be 
issued  (HRS §39 -15 and §39 -70).  
4. Refunding Bonds  
Department s may issue refunding bonds to prepay outstanding debt under any indenture for either  debt 
service savings or restructuring. M ore specific refunding criteria is detailed in S ection VI Debt Issuance  
(Subsection E on Refunding) . B&F is also permitted to issue GO bonds to refund revenue bonds ; 
however , such GO debt will be classified as reimbursable GO debt , payable from the same revenues that 
are pledged for the b onds being refunded .   
5. Lien Levels (Senior, Subordinate)  
Department s may issue revenue bonds with multiple liens on pledged revenues , but should pr imarily 
issue any long -term debt on the lowest cost senior lien . Different lien levels provide flexibility to issue 
necessary debt when constrained by capacity , cost, or credit  considerations. Debt issued at a lower lien 
level often carries credit ratings below those of the senior most lien, and as such are issued and typically 
trade at higher yields. Departments should only use subordinated liens for ce rtain types of obligations 
including unique transactions, back -up or secondary pledges of revenue, interim financings or 
commercial paper, or certain third -party obligations.  There may also be unique circumstances in which a 
Department will want to “close  off” its s enior lien due to unfavorable provisions in the i ndenture, and make 
the subordinate lien the main working lien. In each case that subordinated liens are utilized, the 
Department should carefully weigh the costs and benefits to such an approach.  
Senior Lien Debt:  Debt that has the senior most claim on pledged revenues compared to any other 
outstanding debt. The seniority in the repayment structure results in the most favorable borrowing cost for 
these bonds.  
Subordinate Lien Debt:  Any debt that is  junior in priority to senior debt is considered subordinate debt. 
In instances where issuance of senior lien debt is limited due to capacity or credit constraints, 
subordinate debt may be warranted. Such debt may also be used to incorporate certain struct ures or 
terms that cannot be accommodated under the senior lien.   
6. Lease Revenue Obligations/ Certificates of Participation  
B&F will strive to maximize issuance of General Fund debt under the lowest cost program (GO). Department s may consider l ease revenue obligations or certificat es of participation  (COP) if the type of 
asset or equipment being financed is not eligible to be paid from other sources.  Department s may also 
choose to employ a COP structure if it wishes to fund debt service from available revenues rather than 
creating a direct lien on taxes or new  revenues ; existing available revenues  must be sufficient  to pay 
COP  debt service.    
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   11 
 7. Government Sponsored  Financing P rograms  
Department s may elect to participate in federal  and State programs intended to assist borrowing entities 
in financing capital projects at lower borrowing costs . 
B. Debt Structure Elements  
While this section provides several guidelines on various structuring elements, Department s may 
consider  the following factors while analyzing  tradeoffs  to determine the optim al structure for each 
financing:  
• Project requirements  
• Nature of pledged revenues  
• Cost effectiveness  
• Impact on flexibility  
• Market acceptance  
• Statutory requirements  
1. Term  
The term of any debt should no t exceed the lesser of the expected useful life of the project  financed  and 
the statutorily prescribed  limit, if applicable . Issuing debt beyond the useful life of the project financed 
may result in negative tax consequences. For programs relating to financing loans, the term of any debt 
should not exceed the underlying loan term or loan amortization. The State’s statutes  provid e guidelines 
on maximum allowable maturity  for debt issued under the following  financing programs.  
General obligation bonds may have a maximum maturity of 25 years, while reimbursable GO bonds, 
which in effect are being repaid from revenues, are allowed a  longer term of 35 years  (Haw.  Const. art. 
VII § 13) . Revenue bonds , except for HHFDC revenue bonds,  may be structured to have a term of up to 
30 years  (HRS §39 -54 (b)) . In accordance with this Policy, HHFDC may issue revenue bonds with a final 
maturity up  to 40 years1. COPs  are permitted a term that is the lessor of the useful life of the project or 30 
years  (HRS §37D- 3). 
2. Debt Service Structure/Amortization  
General Obligation Bonds: By State Constitution, a mortization of all long-term GO bonds must be 
structured with either  annual level principal payments or annual level debt service payments . Principal 
repayment may be deferred  to align with delayed project revenues or tax re ceipts  or any other financial 
planning goals , but the first principal payme nt must be no later than five years from the date of issuance 
(Haw. Const. art. VII §  13).  
                                                           
 
1 Per HRS §201H -71, HHFDC is legally permitted to issue revenue bonds with a final maturity up to 60 years.  This Policy sets a lower limit of 40 
years for HHFDC revenue bonds.   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   12 
 Other Obligations:  For other obligations, Department s should also  strive for an approximately level debt 
service structure . If more than one series of bonds is being issued to fund a given project or set of 
projects, then each individual series may be structured with non -level debt service such that in aggregate 
the debt service on all series is approximately level. For revenue  bonds, given the significance of debt 
service coverage levels, a proportional debt service structure may also be employed either at the series  
level or f or the aggregate portfolio . Balloon maturities or back -loaded amortization structures are  not 
advised and their use should be restricted to special situations with approval from the Department H ead 
or the  governing body  and the Director of Finance . The approval request must be accompanied with a 
memo  highlighting the need or benefit for the alternative  amortization structure.   
3. Coupon Structure  
Bonds may be sold at such prices including par, a premium, or a discount. When evaluating the coupon 
structure for a bond  issuance , Department s should factor in investor preference, the yield -to-call, yield -to-
maturity and the potential to refund the bonds for debt service savings in the future . Bonds sold with 
original issuance premium or original issuance discount are permitted.  
Original Issuance Premium  (OIP) : The premium over the par value of the bonds at the t ime of issuance 
arising from the difference between the issue price which is  higher than the stated or redemption price.  
Original Issuance Discount  (OID) : The discount from the par value o f the bond s at the time o f issuance  
arising from the difference bet ween the issue price which is lower  than the stated or redemption price .  
4. Capitalized Interest  
Capitalizing interest during the construction phase , before the project is in use,  is allowed. Given the 
increased cost associated with capitalized interest, Department s will seek to minimize the use of 
capitalized interest. The period for which such interest may be capitalized may not extend for more than  
six months after project completion.  
5. Payment of Interest  
Current Interest  Bonds  (CIBs) : All GO bonds, by l aw, must be structured as current interest bonds or 
serial bonds with interest payable at least once a year.  
Capital Appreciation Bonds  (CABs) : CABs are instruments that allow issuers to defer interest 
payments, to address cash flow insufficiencies. Depart ments may structure certain maturities of revenue 
bonds as CABs, h owever, due to the high cost of borrowing, their use should be limited to special 
circumstances  to fit broader structuring constraints related to sizing or pricing . By statute, only 10% of an 
issue may be structured as CABs  and any use o f CABs must be approved by the G overnor and Director 
of Finance (HRS §39 -54). 
6. Debt Service Reserve Funds 
Department s may create debt service reserve  funds  for revenue bonds  or other obligations  which benefit 
from a liquidity source enhancing the credit quality and making the bonds more marketable. Such 
reserves may be funded from cash on hand, bond proceeds or surety policies  to the extent authorized by  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   13 
 federal  and State law . The use of a surety  policy will be evaluated on a case by case basis. The reserves 
should be funded at reasonable levels or as defined  in the indenture s or certificate governing the 
issuance. Department s will also monitor compliance with other legal covenants in authorizing documents 
such as maintenance of adequate reserve levels for bonds that have such requirements. If drawn upon, 
reserves will be sufficiently replenished within permitted timelines.  
7. Optional Redemption  
All long -term debt with a term of ten years or longer must have an early redemption option and every 
effort must be made to avoid features that limit potential refunding opportunities in the future. Department s should structure the call date, and also call premiums , if desired, to maximize flexibility 
while taking into account prevailing market conditions, cost of the call option, and recommendations from the financial advisor and underwriter. The  optional redemption date should be no later than ten years 
from issuan ce. Department s will avoid the sale of long -term n on-callable bonds  unless they  have a final 
maturity date of ten years or less from the date of issuance , or if the price of such a call option is cost 
prohibitive . Taxable debt may be sold without an option al redemption feature or with a “make -whole” call 
feature subject to market demand.  
8. Credit Enhancement  
Bond Insurance : Department s may purchase bond insurance if it is prudent and advantageous to do so. 
Bond insurance will only be purchased by Departments  if it is  economically advantageous : the insurance 
premium is less than  the present value of the debt service  savings. Bond insurance may be purchased 
for the entire amount of an issue or for specific maturities based on a recommendation from the financial 
advisor or senior underwriter.  For competitive sales, bond insurance may be purchased at the 
underwriter’s option and expense (bidder’s option).  
Credit Facilities : Credit facilities such as letter of credit, line of credit , bond purchase agreements or 
other liquidity facilities  will be considered based on need and cost -effectiveness.  Department s will solicit 
bids from qualified financial institutions and select based on price, credit quality, financial stability, 
financial exposure, and terms and condit ions. Qualified credit facility providers should have the following 
characteristics:  
• Long -term ratings in the highest three rating categories from two nationally  recognized credit 
rating agencies at the time of issuance , and 
• Short -term ratings from at leas t two rating agencies , of at least “P- 1”, “A- 1” or “F1” at the time of 
issuance.  
9. Negative Arbitrage  
Investment of bond proceeds at rates lower than the bond yield result in negative arbitrage. When 
possible, Department s will seek to minimize negative arbitrage.  
C. Use of D erivatives  
The use of any kind of derivative instrument such as interest rate agreements or swaps  is not permitted .  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   14 
 VI. Debt Issuance  
A. Procedure  
Pursuant to Administrative Directive No. 00 -01 or as may be updated , Departments planning to issue 
State debt (bonds, leases, COPs, or financing agreements)  must submit a letter of intent n ot less than 
ninety  calendar days prior to the issuance. The letter must include the plan of finance  and the plan of 
organization for the sale. The Department must provide a detailed rationale for the timing of the issuance 
of State debt. A detailed schedule of the expenditure of proceeds that complies with the Tax Code must 
be included. The Department must also submit  the status of environmental and other project approvals  
for the projects to be funded with debt. In addition, within the letter, the issuing Department must confirm 
that all financial information required for the bond sale has been prepared as of the date of the letter of 
intent. 
B. Professional Services  
Departments may employ professional service providers in various capacities to execute a financing or provide ongoing advisory or monitoring services. Professional service providers will be selected pursuant 
to a competitive selection process pursuant to  HRS §103D  or as may be updated . Professional service 
providers listed in  this section B. Professional Services  and used for debt issuance are subject to the 
approval of the Director of Finance (HRS § 39-5 and §39-55). 
1. Underwriter s 
For negotiated sales, Department s may engage a team of underwriters to serve  as senior  manager , co-
senior manager  and/or co-manager . B&F, by an annual  competitive selection  process,  maintains a pool 
of underwriters with desirable characteristics as to size, experience, geographic coverage , innovative 
financing ideas, experience of designated personnel,  underwriting fee estimates , past performance , and 
additional criteria . Department s may choose one or more firm (s) from the pool for  any financing . Any 
bank and/or authorized organization or group chosen to serv e as an underwriter cannot serve as the 
financial advisor on the same deal. The selected underwriter(s) must share interest rates and takedown information prior to the sale date. The proposed takedown should be matched against comparable issues 
in the market with input from the  financial advisor to determine the fairness of the proposed takedowns. 
Department s will strive for the lowest takedowns possible given the required servic es and outcomes 
needed for a financing. Selling groups , so long as they are located within the State,  may also be 
employed to reach a larger retail base.   
Syndicate:  A group of underwriters organized for the purposes of sharing the risks of underwriting th e 
issue, obtaining sufficient capital to purchase an issue , and broadening the distribution channels of the 
issue to the investing public. One of the underwriting firms will be designated as the syndicate senior manager or lead manager or book -running mana ger to administer the operations of the syndicate.  There 
can also be appointed a co -senior manager, if required.  It will be the role of the senior manager  to (1) 
administer the allocation of State debt to the syndicate and the selling group as per the term s of the  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   15 
 purchase contract (2) ensur e compliance with MSRB (Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board)  rules 
regarding priorities and allocations , and (3) provide a detailed report of the orders and allocations to the 
Departments . 
Selling Group: A group of mun icipal securities dealers that assist  with the broader distribution of bonds . 
Selling group members are able to participate in the initial distribution at a concession or dealer’s 
allowance but do not participate in residual syndicate profits nor share any  liability for any unsold 
balance.  Firms participating in the selling group shall be domiciled or have a significant presence in the 
State.  
2. Financial Advisors  
Department s will select a financial advisor  or pricing advisor  that seeks to obtain the most favo rable bond 
issuance outcome to the State and to assist in the issuance of all State debt and to assist in the ongoing 
management of the State’s debt. The financial advisor may assist in structuring the issuance, analyzing 
financings and alternatives, negot iating terms and pricing, reviewing documents, and evaluating financial 
matters. B&F must also employ an Independent Registered Municipal Advisor (IRMA), as defined by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission  (SEC) that can act in a fiduciary capacity on beh alf of the State . 
Any firm hired in an advisor y capacity should be registered with MSRB and should abstain from bidding 
on or underwriting  the issuance  on which they are advising.  
3. Bond Counsel and Disclosure Counsel  
All bonds issued by the State must be a ccompanied with a written legal opinion from bond counsel 
affirm ing (1) the Department is authorized to issue debt  and has met all constitutional and statutory 
requirements necessary for issuance and (2) a determination regarding the income tax status of the debt.  
A disclosure  counsel should also be engaged to draft the preliminary official statement or other offering 
documents and ensure compliance with initial and continuing disclosure rules, regulations, and 
guidelines . The bon ds must also be accompanied by written legal opinion from disclosure counsel 
affirming no material misstatements or omission s in any of the offe ring documents and/or exemption of 
registration requirements under the federal  securities law. The same legal fir m may serve in both 
capacities and the competitive selection process may be used for appointment to one or either role.  
4. Trustee and Fiscal Agent s 
Department s may require a bond trustee, fiscal agent, and/or paying agent depending on the transaction . 
Depar tments  may hire service providers in these capacities as needed  (HRS §39 -13).  
5. Arbitrage Rebate Service Providers  
Departments  will maintain a system of record keeping and reporting to meet the arbitrage rebate 
compliance requirements of the Tax Code . Departments may contract an arbitrage rebate service 
provider to ensure compliance with the arbitrage rules on all outstanding debt. The arbitrage rebate 
service provider will  calculate the accrued rebate liability and payments due to Internal Revenue Serv ice 
and help with the filing of rebate forms and reimbursement requirements (if applicable). The expertise of  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   16 
 such a service provider can and should be leverage d to provide advice on strategies to reduce arbitrage 
rebate liabilities.  
6. Other P rofess ional Ser vices  
Departments may retain such other professional services providers, including without limitation 
verification agents, escrow agents, and bondholder identification and notification services, as may be 
necessary or appropriate in connection with the iss uance or ongoing maintenance of bonds.  
C. Method of S ale 
Departments will select  the method of sale on a case -by-case basis, taking into account the  most 
advantageous debt service cost and flexibility necessary or desirable in connection with the  structuring, 
timing, and terms of the debt issuance . The Director of Finance  determines the method of sale  (HRS § 39-
5). The three primary methods of sale are competitive, negotiated, and private placement .  
1. Competitive  Sale  
In a competitive sale , underwrit ers are requested to submit a bid which is a firm offer for purchase of 
bonds. A contract is awarded to the bidder with the lowest interest cost which is calculated based on one 
of the following three methods  (HRS §39-5 (c)):  
1. The dollar difference between the total interest payable on the bonds and any  premium earned 
on the sale of bonds  
2. The true interest cost (TIC)  on the bonds  (the rate necessary to discount the amounts payable on 
the respective principal and interest payment  dates to the purchase price received for the bonds )  
3. The opinion of the Department  Head of governing body, in case of variable rate bonds  
The most common method of award is the TIC on the bonds . The notice of sale containing terms and 
conditions of the competitive sale will be given at least once and at least five days prior  to the date of the 
sale in the State and in a financial newspaper or newspapers published in any of the cities of New York, 
Chicago, or San Fra ncisco . Conditions that are condu cive for a competitive sale are:  
• The bond market is stable and demand for municipal bonds is strong  
• The credit rating is at least in the ‘A’ category  
• The issuer is a regular borrower and the credit is well known to the mark et 
• The bond structure is standard  not requiring explanation or special marketing effort  (traditional 
long-term fixed -rate bonds , no unusual call provisions or terms ) 
• Market timing is not critical to the pricing of the bonds  
2. Negotiated Sale  
In a negotiated sale, the bonds are sold directly to an underwriter or an underwriting syndicate  
preselected before  the sale date . The underwriter (s) will be chosen through a competitive selection  
process  and the underwriter’s fees are negotiated prior to the sale . Conditions that are conducive for a 
negotiated sale are :   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   17 
 • The bond market is volatile and demand for municipal bonds is weak  
• The credit rating is below ‘A’ category  
• The credit or bond structure requir es explanation and active marketing effort  
• The bonds ar e variable rate bonds  
• The issue size is substantially large  
• The bonds are targeted towards retail investors or other specific investors  
• Market timing is critical to the pricing of the bond s 
• The sale of the bonds must be coordinated with other related tran sactions  
• The impetus for the transaction has been the result of significant innovation and efforts provided 
by one or more underwriter  
3. Private Placement   
In a private placement, debt is placed directly with a buyer, typically a commercial bank. Since terms  are 
directly negotiated between the bank and issuer, extensive offer ing documents are not required , reducing 
the cost of issuance. Conditions that are conducive to a private placement are : 
• The terms of a loan , including borrowing cost , are more advantageo us than the capital markets  
• The credit is weak or a rating cannot be obtained  
• The desired structure is not available in the capital market s 
• The bond proceeds are needed on short notice  
D. Pricing  
Process   
Pursuant to HRS §26 -8, B&F will participate in all pricings of State debt.  
This section describes the general pricing process for a negotiated sale. Market conditions and nuances 
related to a specific issuance may require alternative steps/deviations from the process described. In the 
weeks leading up to t he sale date for an issuance, i nterest rate scales are solicited from the underwriters 
to help  determine a  pricing strategy and a n initial offering scale for the day of the sale. B&F and the 
issuing Department along with the financial advisor should review  the detailed marketing plan and pricing 
strategy from the underwriters. Prior to the sale date or on the date  of sale , a retail order period may be 
held to solicit smaller orders from individual investors. Orders submitted by retail investors from the Sta te 
of Hawaii should be given preference when allotting bonds from the sale, followed by national retail 
investors.  If it is determined that a separate retail order period will be held, Departments should make all 
efforts to ensure that the retail order pe riod is scheduled to occur during business hours in Hawaiian 
Standard Time.  
On the day of the  sale, an interest rate scale is made known to potential investors through a pricing wire. 
An order  period is conducted and may last several hours. During the ord er period, orders are placed by 
investors  through the senior manager, the co -managers  and selling group , if applicable . B&F, the issuing 
Department, and the financial advisor should have viewing access to the order book during the order  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   18 
 period. After the o rder period closes, the  senior manager , B&F, the issuing Department, and the financial 
advisor  review the book of orders.  Based on the amount and  distribution of orders, the senior manager , 
B&F, the issuing Department, and the financial advisor determine whether any adjustments to the  pricing 
of the bonds are necessary. After the bonds are repriced, the underwriters may accept the pricing 
adjustments or may check to see whether additional orders can be obtained and/or whether initial orders 
are withdrawn. Several iterations of this process may take place. When the senior manager (on behalf of 
the entire underwriting group) , B&F and the issuing Department  agree on a price, a verbal award is 
made. As B&F and the issuing Department engage in pricing discussion s and structuring decisions  prior 
to the sale , in addition to the interest rate scale, evaluation factors may include couponing structure, 
amortization structure, yield -to-call and yield-to-maturity  analysis , and optional redemption features.  
Underwriter R esponsibilities   
In a negotiated sale, the underwriter must provide : 
• A marketing plan including potential target investors, pre -marketing activities, structural 
recommendations, a recommendation as to the use of retention, designation rules and proposed 
liabilities.  
• A pre -pricing book including, but not limited to, the following information: a discussion of market 
conditions ; the Department ’s past transactions,  comparable issues in the market; and a pre -
pricing scale.  
• A final pricing book including, but not  limited to, the following information: a discussion of market 
conditions leading up to and during the pricing; the final pricing wire; comparable issues in the 
market; orders and allotments; management fees and liabilities; bond  distribution by firm; 
takedown and designation dollars  by firm; member allotments and retention; and designations on 
net designated orders.  
Financial Advisor Responsibilities   
A financial advisor or pricing advisor should  be utilized for negotiated transactions  and should be presen t 
during all negotiations and calls with the underwriters. For every transaction , the financial advisor must 
provide : 
• An independent pricing scale based on market conditions, the Department ’s past transaction s, 
the yields in secondary market , as well as re cent comparable transactions before the sale.  
• A post-pricing memorandum evaluating  and memorializing  the pricing process and results  after 
the sale to serve as reference for future transactions.   
E. Refunding  
Departments will monitor the debt portfolio for re funding opportunities at least  annually. Departments may 
issue refunding bonds in order to : 
• Achieve debt service  savings  
• Restructure  debt service   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   19 
 • Modify indenture provisions which may include  limitations on  sources of payment or  have other  
binding covenants  
• Convert between variable rate and fixed rate structure s or between tax -exempt and taxable 
status  
• Restructure or refinance bonds that are in a state of distress due to market conditions, credit 
issues, issues with bond  insurers or credit facility providers, or for other reasons that may 
eliminate or reduce risk  
Departments may effect a current refunding or advance refunding as long as tax law permits. The term of 
the refunding bonds should not exceed the remaining term of the refunded bond s. In addition to debt 
service savings, the Department  will consider the opportunity cost of refunding the bonds, the potential 
loss of call option flexibility, and the potential of refunding the bonds for greater savings in the future 
when evaluating refu nding opportunities.  
1. Refunding Criteria  to Achieve Debt Service Savings 
The refunding criteria below shall apply to refunding bonds issued for the purpose of achieving debt 
service savings.  
Criteria for S electing Refunding Candidates  
• Each individual bond maturity must generate present value savings of at least  3% of refunded 
par. In addition, for advance refundings, each maturity must generate an escrow efficiency of  
50% or more . Escrow efficiency is the net present value savings divided by the net present value 
savings of a perfect escrow (the sum of the net present value savings and negative arbitrage).  
• In some cases individual maturities that produce savings below the threshold s above, but that are 
still positive on a net present value basis, may be included if they mature within 5 years of the call 
date, or represent the only remaining maturities of the bond issue being refunded.  The resulting 
refunding in aggregate must meet o r exceed the thresholds below.  
• Individual maturities that do not meet the threshold s above  may also be selected if their inclusion 
produces the desired deb t service structure or savings pattern  when combined with other 
maturities that produce substantial s avings.  However, such maturities may only be included, if the 
resulting refunding  in aggregate  meets or exceeds the thresholds described below.  
Thresholds for C urrent Refunding 
A current refunding should produce a total net present value savings of at least  3% of total refunded par.  
Thresholds for Advance R efunding 
An advance refunding should produce a total net present value savings of at least 5% of total refunded 
par. Additionally , the escrow efficiency should be greater than 50% to be eligible for an advance 
refunding  (the negative arbitrage cannot be greater than the present value savings).  
2. Restructuring Criteria  
Departments may issue refunding bonds for the purpose of restructuring debt service to smooth out 
aggregate annual debt service or to ach ieve a more favorable matching of revenues pledged to meet  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   20 
 debt service payments. Restructurings which significant ly back- load debt service causing dissavings in 
certain years or restructurings which extend debt service beyond the original final maturity of the 
refunded bonds are not permitted unless there is a compelling public policy objective or business related 
objective. Such restructurings should still result in positive s avings (gross or present value) and require 
approval from the Director of Finance. A memo detailing the restructuring objective must be submitted to the Director of Finance  for approval. Departments must also consider the effect of such restructuring on 
the credit rating s of the financing program  and the State .  
3. Structure  
General Obligation Bonds:  GO refunding bonds must be structured with a n annual level principal or 
annual level debt service structure  (Haw. Const. art. VII § 13 ). Within the constraints of the constitutional 
structure requirements described, GO refunding bonds will aim  to achieve a relatively  annual level 
savings structure .  
Other Obligations:  Departments may structure non -GO refunding bonds  with principal payments 
necessary to achieve a proportional or annual level savings structure .  Other  savings structures including 
upfront savings, deferred savings, and targeted savings for a series may be utilized in order to achieve an 
aggregate proportional or level savings structure from a portfolio perspective.  
4. Escrow Structuring  
Departments will structure refunding escrows using permitted securities per the State statutes (HRS §39 -
15 and HRS §39 -71) or as dictated in related indentures or certificates. The escrow may consist of State 
and Local Government Securities (SLGS)  which are purchased directly from federal government or open 
market securities  (OMS) such a treasury bills and notes purchased on the open market . In circu mstances 
where OMS  provide material cost savings compared to SLGS, a certificate will be delivered to the 
Director of Finance  from the financial advisor or qualified third party agent, who is not a broker -dealer, on 
each refunding issue. The certificate will state that the securities were procured through an arms -length, 
competitive bid process, that such securities were more cost -effective than SLGS, and that the price paid 
for the securities was reasonable within federal tax law guidelines.   
VII. Debt Management  
A. Credit Objectives and Ratings Strategy  
The goal of the State is to provide sufficient financial  flexibility to meet the objectives of each financing 
program while striving to secure and maintain the highest possible ratings for each program. Credit 
ratings provide an independent opinion regarding the State’s ability and willingness to meet its financial 
commitme nts. Credit ratings issued by the bond rating agencies are a major factor in determining the cost 
of borrowed funds in the municipal bond market , and c redit ratings are one of the tools used by investors 
when purchasing municipal obligations. It is the obj ective of the State  to maintain its positive presence in 
the credit markets through the maintenance of and improvement of all relevant credit characteristics 
within its control. In order to meet credit objectives, Department s will strive to do the followin g:  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   21 
 • Maintain proactive communication with rating agencies about any material developments 
including  upcoming issuances  
• Schedule periodic calls and updates about the general economic and financial condition of the 
State or the Department  
• Address specific credit concerns  with tailored and well researched credit presentation and 
discussion  
In doing so, the Departments will include B&F in their communications with rating agencies. In connection 
with new issuances, Department s will apply for ratings from at least two National Recognized Statistical 
Rating Organizations in order to ensure liquidity of its debt in the secondary market.  Certain financing 
programs may maintain single ratings if limited issuances are anticipated.  
Drivers of credit rating strategy:  
• Security and structure of the  deal in light of the rating criteria  
• Market conditions  coupled with investor preference  for number of ratings and rating agency  
• Time and resource s invest ed to attain and maintain a rating ov er the life of  a bond  in addition to 
the initial cost of a rating  
B. Investor R elations  
B&F understands  the importance of maintaining relations with all investors, including principal institutional 
investors.  As a result,  B&F undertakes an extensive  investor  outreach  program for its financings . The 
program serves to proactively provide economic and financial information to all investors alike, in a 
manner that is unbiased and transparent. The State’s website maintains a page 
(http://investorrelations.hawaii.gov/ ) dedicated to investor relations and the Departments will actively 
manage the ir page s in order to keep it up -to-date. The investor relations page  provides  information 
including but not limited to  upcoming sales, bond ratings , revenue forecasts, pension  and health benefit  
liabilities, pre-selected underwriters , and the State’s contracted  IRMA.  
C. Arbitrage Rebate Monitoring and Filing  
The Departments  will monitor compliance with the arbitrage rebate rules for all of the State’s outstanding 
debt.  Department s will maintain necessary and appropriate records regarding the use and investment of 
bond proceeds .  
D. Tax Compliance  
In compliance with the Tax Code, Departments will monitor and maintain detailed records of the 
expenditure of tax -exempt bond proceeds and private business use of tax -exempt financed projects.  
E. Cont inuing D isclosure  
Departments are  committed to full and complete disclosure  and will comply with SEC Rule 15c2- 12, by 
filing offer ing document s, financial statements and other operating data through Electronic Municipal  
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   22 
 Market Access system (EMMA) no later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year ending June 30 . 
Notice of m aterial events must be filed within 10  business days. Material events may include:  
1. Principal and interest payment delinquencies  
2. Nonpayment -related defaults  
3. Unscheduled draws on debt service reserve funds  
4. Unscheduled draws on credit enhancements  
5. Substitution of credit or liquidity providers or the failure of performance on the part of a liquidity 
provider  
6. Adverse tax opinions or events affecting the tax -exempt status of any bonds  
7. Modifications to rights of bond holders  
8. Bond calls  
9. Defeasances  
10. Matters affecting collateral  
11. Rating changes  
F. Investment  of B ond Proceeds  and Reserve Funds  
All bond proceeds must be invested in accordance with the State and federal  tax law limitations. All 
investments must be consistent with permissible investments detailed in the State statutes , bond 
authorizing documents , and Investment Policy  (HRS §39-69). With direction  from a Department, the 
Director of Finance may also similarly invest idle funds in reserves or sinking funds . The University of 
Hawaii may hold and invest its revenue bond proceeds and reserve funds per H RS § 304A -2003 . 
G. Risk Management  
Departments will evaluate each transaction to identify and manage the various risks associated with a 
transaction. On a best effort basis , Departments  will try to mitigate or minimize exposure to these  risks. 
The f ollowing r isks should be assesse d before issuing debt : 
• Tax Status : Changes in public/private use of projects funded by tax -exempt funds could cause 
the bonds to become taxable.  Untimely expenditure of tax -exempt bond proceeds  could cause 
the bonds to become taxable.  
• Default Risk: The risk that debt service payment will  not be made on the due date . 
• Liquidity Risk: The risk of having to pay a higher rate to the liquidity provider in the event of a 
failed remarketing.   
• Interest Rate Risk : The risk that interest rates will rise, on a sustained basis, above levels that 
would have been set if the bonds were issued at fixed rate .  
• Rollover Risk:  The risk of the inability to obtain a suitable liquidity facility at an acceptable price to 
replace  a facility upon termination or expiration of a contract period.   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   23 
 VIII. Exceptions to the Policy  
While adherence to this Policy is required in applicable circumstances, the State recognizes that changes 
in the capital markets, State programs and other unforeseen circumstances may produce situations that 
are not covered by the Policy or require modifications or exceptions to achieve Policy goals. In these 
cases, t he Director of Finance may consider and approve exceptions to provisions within this Policy.  A 
memo det ailing the rationale for an exception to the Policy must be submitted to the Director of Finance . 
IX. Review and Amendments  
The Director of Finance  along with the Governor will review the Policy annually and recommend 
amendments, if required, to the legislatur e before any regular session . 
   
 
 
Debt Management Poli cy   24 
 X. Glossary  
Bad Money : Limitations imposed by the Tax Code that restrict the amount of bond proceeds that may be 
used for non -qualifying activities, generally ten  percent for governmental bonds and  five percent for 
private activity bonds.  Aggregate private use cannot exceed the lesser of the ten percent/five percent or 
$15 million.  
Balloon Maturity: Final payment on a debt that is substantially larger than the preceding payments.  
Capital Projects : Acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or 
extension of any undertaking .  
Operations and Maintenance Expenses: Expenses associated with the maintenance and 
administration on a day -to-day basis. This does not include maj or capital maintenance expendit ures 
which extend the useful life of the asset.  
Departments : Any state department, board, commission, officer, authority, or agency which is charged 
by law with the administration of an undertaking or loan program.  Specifical ly, Departments includes the 
Department of Budget and Finance and any Department which issues or may issue debt.  
Undertaking: Any public works and properties, improvement, or system, tangible or intangible, owned or 
operated by the State or a department th ereof, and any public activity, policy, or program undertaken by 
the State or a department thereof, and from which the State or department may derive revenues, or with 
respect to which the State or department may derive user taxes.

--- Text from PDF (https://investorrelations.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Notice-of-Potential-Financing_ADA.pdf) ---
Voluntary Notice of Potential Financing 
The State of Hawaii (the “ State ”) is considering the issuance of approximately $ 750 million of taxabl e 
General Obligation Bonds (the “Bonds”), the proceeds of which will be used to fund various public 
projects . 
Indications of interest on the Bonds are expected to be taken on or about December 3, 2024, and an 
institutional order period will occur on or abo ut December 4, 2024. 
The syndicate selling the B onds will be led by BofA Securities as the bookrunning senior manager . Barclays , 
J.P. Morgan and Raymond James are co -managers. 
The Bonds will be secured by the full faith and credit of the State . 
The exac t size, timing, and structure of the anticipated transaction remain subject to change . 
The State reserves the right to modify its plans as it deems appropriate and is under no obligation to 
pursue the transaction or to provide any updates to this notice . 
The filing of this notice does not constitute or imply any repre sentation that the foregoing is material to 
investors or regarding any other financial, operating or other information about the State. There is no 
guarantee the transaction or structure described in this notice will be consummated. Under no 
circumstances shall this notice constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any Bonds . 
Any such offer or solicitation will only be made pursuant to an official statement that prospective investors 
must review before making any investment decision. 
Dated: November 8, 2024
