Source URL: https://madein.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Made in Hawaii Instagram Facebook Search Search Marketplace Local Foods Hawaiʻi Products About Us News 日本語 Apply Now! 2024 Conference Menu Marketplace Local Foods Hawaiʻi Products About Us News 日本語 Apply Now! 2024 Conference Made in Hawaiʻi Buy Hawaiʻi Give Aloha is now Made in Hawaiʻi . We are continuing to offer the same free portal highlighting Hawaiʻi-made products and brands. When you buy from Made In Hawaiʻi companies, your money stays here at home, supporting local businesses, creating jobs and strengthening our island economy. Learn About Made in Hawaiʻi and Headlined Made in Hawaiʻi 2024 presents Your Future in E-Commerce Immediate solutions to build resilience and expand your markets Held on: Wednesday, February 21, 2024 View the Recap Marketplaces Find curated collections of local vendors and Hawaiʻi-made products. Shop Marketplaces Local Food Discover local restaurants, farmers and food services. Shop Local Food Hawaii Products From snacks to apparel, shop Made in Hawaiʻi companies by category. Buy Hawaiʻi Products Showcasing Hawaiʻi businesses and brands Made in Hawaiʻi supports local businesses by providing a free platform for kama‘aina and visitors to find their favorite brands and discover new products. Learn More about Made in Hawaiʻi Made in Hawaiʻi 2023 Branding Workshop Learn about the Made In Hawaiʻi branding project from last year’s Branding Workshop! Recap of the 2023 Branding Workshop See 2023 Made in Hawai'i Research News and Updates Amazon and Shopify to Headline Made in Hawai‘i E-Commerce Conference on February 21 February 1, 2024 The Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT), in collaboration with industry leaders Amazon and Shopify, announced today that the first-ever “Made in Hawai‘i Presents: Your Future in E-Commerce” conference will be held at the Ala Moana Hotel on Wednesday, February 21. Read More Made in Hawai‘i Branding Workshop on March 29￼ March 14, 2023 The Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT) announced today that the first-ever Made in Hawai‘i Branding Workshop will be held at the Hawai‘i Convention Center on Wednesday, March 29. Read More From Cottage Industry to Commercial Enterprise – COHORT 2 March 6, 2023 Hawaii Ag & Culinary Alliance® (HACA) invites you to participate in the From Cottage Industry to Commercial Enterprise Program aimed at cultivating the next generation of Hawaii’s value-added entrepreneurs in partnership Read More Read More News and Updates Subscribe to our newsletter Stay in the know on updates and new stores being added to the Made In Hawaiʻi site. Email Subscribe About Made In Hawaiʻi Made In Hawaiʻi is a free resource highlighting brands and products that are Made In Hawaiʻi. Created and maintained by the Hawaiʻi Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT), it offers Hawaiʻi-based companies and online marketplaces a central portal to promote their offerings to local and new audiences. In order to be marketed, promoted or labeled as “Made in Hawaiʻi,” products must be manufactured assembled, fabricated, or produced in the State with at least fifty-one percent of its wholesale value, added by manufacture, assembly, fabrication, or production within the State, including Hawaiʻi-sourced goods, services, and intellectual property. Learn more about Made In Hawaiʻi Sitemap Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Feedback Sitemap Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Feedback Copyright © 2020 Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism. All rights reserved. Instagram Facebook Twitter

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
