Source URL: https://mauilandlordtenantfaqs.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Office of Consumer Protection | Landlord Tenant Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer 廣東話 Chuukese Français Deutsch ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 国语 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog Tongan ภาษาไทย Tiếng Việt Visayan x 你需要其他語言嘅幫助啊？ 如果您想請求更多信息或幫助，請致電（808）586-7314. Ka osupwangen álillis lón pwal eú fós? Ika ke mochen tungor pwan ekkoch porous ika aninis, kokori (808) 586-7314. Avez-vous besoin d'aide dans une autre langue ? Si vous souhaitez obtenir des informations supplémentaires ou une assistance, appelez le (808) 586-7314. Benötigen Sie Hilfe in einer anderen Sprache? Wenn Sie weitere Informationen oder Hilfe benötigen, rufen Sie (808) 586-7314 an. Pono ʻoe i ke kōkua ma ka ʻōlelo ʻē aʻe? Inā makemake ʻoe e noi i ka ʻike hou a i ʻole ke kōkua, e kelepona iā (808) 586-7314. Kasapulan kadi ti tulong iti sabali a pagsasao? No kayatyo ti agkiddaw iti kanayonan nga impormasion wenno tulong, tawaganyo ti (808) 586-7314. 別の言語でのサポートが必要ですか? さらに詳しい情報やサポートが必要な場合は、(808) 586-7314 までお電話ください。 다른 언어로 도움이 필요하세요? 추가 정보나 지원을 요청하려면 (808) 586-7314로 전화하세요. 您需要其他语言的帮助吗？如果您想请求更多信息或帮助，请致电 (808) 586-7314. Kwoj aikuj ke jibañ ilo bar juon kajin? Elañe kwoj kōnaan kajitok bar melele ak jibañ, call (808) 586-7314. E te mana'omia se fesoasoani i se isi gagana? Afai e te mana'o e talosagaina nisi fa'amatalaga po'o se fesoasoani, vala'au (808) 586-7314. ¿Necesita ayuda en otro idioma? Si desea solicitar más información o asistencia, llame al (808) 586-7314. Kailangan mo ba ng tulong sa ibang wika? Kung gusto mong humiling ng karagdagang impormasyon o tulong, tumawag sa (808) 586-7314. ʻOkú ke fie maʻu ha tokoni ʻi ha lea kehe? Kapau 'oku ke fie kole ha toe fakamatala pe tokoni, ta ki he (808) 586-7314. คุณต้องการความช่วยเหลือในภาษาอื่นหรือไม่? หากต้องการขอข้อมูลเพิ่มเติมหรือความช่วยเหลือ โปรดโทร (808) 586-7314 Bạn có cần trợ giúp bằng ngôn ngữ khác không? Nếu bạn muốn yêu cầu thêm thông tin hoặc hỗ trợ, hãy gọi (808) 586-7314. Nagkinahanglan ka ba og tabang sa laing pinulongan? Kung gusto nimo mangayo ug dugang nga impormasyon o tabang, tawag sa (808) 586-7314. Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs Office of Consumer Protection Search this site Search Home About About OCP Provide Legal Services to OCP Laws and Rules HAR HRS News and Media FAQs Contact DCCA DCCA Home DCCA Divisions Home » Landlord Tenant Landlord Tenant Report Illegal Residential Rent Increases and Evictions on the Island of Maui to the Attorney General The Hawaii Residential Landlord-Tenant Information Center The Office of Consumer Protection (OCP) operates the Hawaii Residential Landlord-Tenant Information Center. This free service offers information to the general public about Hawaii’s Residential Landlord-Tenant Code. Callers can access the Information Center by calling one of the numbers listed below between 8:00 AM and 12:00 Noon: Honolulu Office (Oahu/Kauai): (808) 586-2634 Maui Office (Maui/Molokai/Lanai): (808) 243-4648 Hilo Office (Hawaii Island): (808) 933-0910 Residential Landlord-Tenant Code Chapter 521 Residential Landlord-Tenant Code of the Hawaii Revised Statutes Residential Landlord-Tenant Handbook (PDF) Updated 7/19/24 FAQs for Residential Landlords and Tenants on the Island of Maui What you should know about your rights after the Sixteenth Wildfires Emergency Proclamation, issued on July 19, 2024 Current PDF copy of this FAQ Archived FAQs (PDF) Q: When did the emergency restrictions relating to rent increases and terminating existing tenancies begin? Restrictions on rent increases and terminating existing tenancies began on August 9, 2023, when the Second Proclamation Relating to Wildfires was issued. Q: What are the restrictions on increasing rents on the Island of Maui during this emergency? For the duration of this Emergency Proclamation, landlords are prohibited from increasing rents during a tenancy unless the rent increases are contained in a written agreement that was signed before this emergency period. These pre-written rent increases may be given effect as agreed upon in writing. Landlords may pass on additional operating expenses to tenants and must be able to provide documentation for these expenses. Q: What are the restrictions on terminating existing residential tenancies on the Island of Maui? For the duration of this Emergency Proclamation, landlords are prohibited from terminating existing tenancies on the Island of Maui unless there is a material breach of the lease other than the tenant’s failure to pay all or any portion of the rent or lease, maintenance fees, utility charges, taxes or other fees required by the rental agreement. However, only tenants with month-to-month tenancies can be asked to move out if the property is sold to a bona fide third-party purchaser or if the landlord or an immediate family member of the landlord will occupy the residential unit. Landlords are not prohibited from terminating a fixed-term lease when the lease term expires. Upon forty-five days’ written notice, a landlord is also permitted to require a tenant to relocate for repairs to render the property fit for occupancy, provided that reoccupancy is offered to the tenant upon completion of the repair and the lease term is extended for a period equal to the duration of the repair. The tenant is responsible for finding other accommodations during the repair period. Q: What are the requirements for a landlord on the Island of Maui to terminate a tenancy due to their or an immediate family member's intention to occupy the property or when selling the property? For the duration of this Emergency Proclamation, landlords must file an affidavit with the County Department of Housing and Human Concerns. It must be on a form provided by the Housing Division of the Department of Housing and Human Concerns. The affidavit must: (1) be signed by the landlord under penalty of perjury; (2) state the tenancy must be terminated because the unit is being sold to a bona fide purchaser for value, or the landlord's immediate family member or landlord will occupy the unit; (3) state the purchase price and the purchaser's name, and be accompanied by a copy of the sales contract when the unit is being sold; (4) state when the landlord or an immediate family member will occupy the unit; (5) provide the names of the family members, state their relation to the landlord; describe in detail the reason the landlord or family member will occupy the unit; and (6) affirmatively state the landlord or family member is not receiving funds from the State, federal government, or private entity to house wildfire survivors in other properties they own. Q: What is an example of a material breach of a lease other than a breach for non-payment of rent? Failing to perform an obligation under the rental agreement or lease, which constitutes the consideration for entering into the contract, such as failure to follow obligations, rules, and restrictions set by the landlord, willfully destroying, or damaging the dwelling unit, or allowing another to willfully destroy or damage the dwelling unit, may be material breaches of the lease. If you have questions about whether conduct the constitutes a material breach of the lease, you may wish to consult an attorney. Q: Do the emergency restrictions for rentals apply to commercial leases on the Island of Maui? These emergency restrictions apply only to residential leases and only on the island of Maui. Q: When do the restrictions end? The restrictions will continue until September 17, 2024, unless terminated or superseded earlier. The Governor may increase the duration of these restrictions by issuing another proclamation. Q: Where are these emergency restrictions in effect? These restrictions apply to residential leases on the entire island of Maui and are not limited to any specific location on Maui. Q: Is the Residential Landlord-Tenant Code in effect? Are courts hearing landlord-tenant cases during this emergency period? The Residential Landlord-Tenant Code (chapter 521, HRS) remains in effect throughout the State for the duration of this Emergency Proclamation, with two exceptions. For the Island of Maui only, certain laws are suspended to the extent necessary to prohibit legal actions to terminate a tenancy for a tenant’s failure to pay all or any portion of the rent or lease, maintenance fees, utility charges, taxes or other fees required by the rental agreement. For the duration of this Emergency Proclamation, summary possession actions may not commence, continue, or be prosecuted on the Island of Maui if they involve terminating a tenancy for a tenant’s failure to pay all or any portion of the rent or lease, maintenance fees, utility charges, taxes or other fees required by the rental agreement. Other than certain legal actions for summary possession on the Island of Maui, landlords and tenants may continue to file lawsuits affecting landlord and tenant rights on the Island of Maui and throughout the State. Q: Does a displaced Maui resident residing in a hotel, motel, or a condominium operated as a residence for persons displaced by the wildfire emergency have the same rights as a tenant under the Residential Landlord-Tenant Code (chapter 521, HRS)? No. For the duration of this Emergency Proclamation, hotels, motels, and condominiums are not considered landlords even if they temporarily house non-congregate shelterees. Similarly, persons displaced by the wildfire emergency who are temporarily housed in hotels, motels, and condos (i.e., non-congregate shelterees) are not considered tenants under state law for the duration of this Emergency Proclamation. Q: Can a person displaced by the wildfire emergency who is currently and temporarily living in a Red Cross-arranged condominium unit continue to live in the unit beyond the time limit contained in the condominium by-laws, declarations, and house rules? Yes. Condo owners are relieved from strict compliance with certain provisions of the governing documents that may limit the amount of time a unit can be rented. ### These FAQs constitute guidance from the Office of Consumer Protection. This guidance is non-binding. The Office of Consumer Protection is not your attorney and cannot provide you with legal advice. Resources Government Agencies CFPB’s Rental Assistance Finder Hawaii Civil Rights Commission Hawai’i State Judiciary – Self-Help – Landlord-Tenant Claims Mediation/Alternative Dispute Resolution Mediation Centers Office of Hawaiian Affairs State of Hawaii, Self-Help Center Non-Profit Organizations Aloha United Way (AUW) Catholic Charities Hawaii Appleseed Center for Law and Economic Justice Hawaii Disability Rights Center Hawaii LGBT Legacy Foundation Legal Aid Society of Hawaii (LASH) Mediation Center of the Pacific Mutual Housing Association of Hawaii National Low Income Housing Coalition HI Chapter Volunteer Legal Services Hawaii Women Helping Women Real Estate Industry Honolulu Board of Realtors Kauai Board of Realtors Hawai’i Association of Realtors Hawai’i Island Realtors Realtor Association of Maui Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM) Hawaii Chapter National Association of Residential Property Managers (NARPM) Oahu Chapter Mediation Centers Mediation Center of the Pacific - Oahu Kauai Economic Opportunity Mediation Services - Kauai West Hawaii Mediation Center - Hawaii Island Ku'ikahi Mediation Center - Hawaii Island Maui Mediation Services - Maui About Us Contact Us Site Map Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy 808-587-4272 contact email Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
