Source URL: https://oceansafety.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Respect Our Ocean & Stay Beach Safe | Hawaii Ocean Safety Skip to content Search for: BEFORE YOU GO Know Your Limits Plan For Your Ocean Activities Drowning & Spinal Cord Injury HOW TO PICK A BEACH List of Lifeguarded Beaches Ocean Hazards: Strong Currents Ocean Hazards: Dangerous Shorebreak Hawaii’s Surf Seasons WHILE AT THE BEACH Beach Warning Signs Safety in the Ocean Snorkeling Safety Safety Around the Shoreline Weather Hazards Beach Safety for Families NEWS RESOURCES Search for: Loading... Already AT THE BEACH? Here are ways to stay safe and have fun! WHICH BEACH should you go to? Let us help you decide. START HERE Before you go to the beach in Hawaii. Home 2024-11-08T17:08:03-09:00 RESPECT OUR OCEAN and STAY BEACH SAFE! Will you be heading to the beach in Hawaii? Here are six things you need to know. Know your health limits and fitness level Learn More Always swim at a lifeguarded beach Learn More Learn how to swim and snorkel safely Learn More Always swim with a buddy at the beach Learn More Read & obey posted warning signs Learn More Always be aware of the ocean Learn More Will you be heading to the beach in Hawaii? Here are six things you need to know. Know your health limits and fitness level Learn More Always swim at a lifeguarded beach Learn More Learn how to swim and snorkel safely Learn More Always swim with a buddy at the beach Learn More Read & obey posted warning signs Learn More Always be aware of the ocean Learn More Click edit button to change this text. Will you be heading to the beach in Hawaii? Here are six things you need to know. Know your health limits and fitness level Learn More Always swim at a lifeguarded beach Learn More Learn how to swim and snorkel safely Learn More Always swim with a buddy at the beach Learn More Read & obey posted warning signs Learn More Always be aware of the ocean Learn More Doctor advises visitors to take it easy in paradise HONOLULU (KHON2) — A local doctor is warning tourists not to over-do it on their trip to the Hawaiian Islands. More Information Governor Josh Green signs water safety bills into law HONOLULU (Island News) — In a significant move to enhance water safety awareness and honor Duke Kahanamoku, Hawaii’s waterman, Governor Josh Green, M.D., signed two important bills into law on May 15, 2024. More Information Ocean Safety Emphasized Amid Winter Surf Season After Tragic Drowning HONOLULU (KHON2) — As the winter surf season intensifies, ocean safety officials are urging increased awareness following a recent tragic drowning on the North Shore. More Information Blangiardi signs resolution creating stand-alone Ocean Safety Department City administrators, members of the Honolulu City Council and working and former lifeguards gathered Wednesday afternoon in front of Honolulu Hale to commemorate the signing of Resolution 24-103, which created a stand-alone city Ocean Safety Department, effective immediately. More Information Lifeguarded Beaches in Hawaii There are many beaches where you can have fun while under the watchful eye of a trained lifeguard. Going to a lifeguarded beach can save your life in the event of an emergency. View the List Get Current Beach Conditions Get timely and accurate conditions at lifeguarded beaches in Hawaii from HawaiiBeachSafety.com. Updated every 15 minutes based on forecasts by the National Weather Service. Visit HawaiiBeachSafety.com Drowning & Spinal Cord Injury Facts Participating in ocean activities can be dangerous, and the risk of drowning and spinal cord injury is always present. Drowning and spinal cord injury are both preventable; don’t become the next statistic. Learn the Facts Visitor and Resident Information When visiting Hawaii from out of state, it’s important to be well-informed about the rules and regulations as well as any associated fees. Department of Transportation | Hawaii.gov Hawaii Travel Information | Go Hawaii Visitor Information | Hawaii.gov Hawaii.gov | Transportation & Vehicles (ehawaii.gov) Disease Outbreak Control Division | COVID-19 City Beach / Ocean Access | Google Maps HIOceanSafety.com About Us Contact Us Latest News Disclaimer Privacy Policy BEFORE YOU GO Know Your Limits Plan For Your Ocean Activities Drowning & Spinal Cord Injury HOW TO PICK A BEACH List of Lifeguarded Beaches Ocean Hazards: Strong Currents Ocean Hazards: Dangerous Shorebreak Hawaii’s Surf Seasons WHILE AT THE BEACH Beach Warning Signs Safety in the Ocean Snorkeling Safety Safety Around the Shoreline Weather Hazards Beach Safety for Families Hawaii Department of Health Emergency Medical Services & Injury Prevention System Branch 3675 Kilauea Avenue Honolulu, HI 96816 © 2024 Hawaii State Department of Health | All Rights Reserved Looking for current beach and ocean conditions? Get timely and accurate conditions at lifeguarded beaches in Hawaii from our partner website, HawaiiBeachSafety.com . Toggle Sliding Bar Area Page load link Go to Top

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
