Source URL: https://request.dod.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Department of Defense | Hawai’i Department of Defense Community Support Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer English 廣東話 Chuukese ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog Tongan ภาษาไทย Tiếng Việt Visayan x Do you need help in another language? We will get you a free interpreter. Call (808-369-3478) to tell us which language you speak. 您需要其它語言嗎？如有需要,請致電 (808-369-3478) , 我們會提供免費翻譯服務 您需要其它语言吗？如有需要,请致电 (808-369-3478) , 我们会提供免费翻译服务 En mi niit alilis lon pwal eu kapas? Sipwe angei emon chon chiaku ngonuk ese kamo. Kokori (808-369-3478) omw kopwe ureni kich meni kapas ka ani. Makemake `oe i kokua i pili kekahi `olelo o na `aina `e? Makemake la maua i ki`i `oe mea unuhi manuahi. E kelepona (808-369-3478) `oe ia la kaua a e ha`ina `oe ia la maua mea `olelo o na `aina `e. Masapulyo kadi ti tulong iti sabali a pagsasao? Ikkandakayo iti libre nga paraipatarus. Awaganyo ti (808-369-3478) tapno ibagayo kadakami no ania ti pagsasao nga ar-aramatenyo. 貴方は、他の言語に、助けを必要としていますか ? 私たちは、貴方のために、無料で 通訳を用意で きます。電話番号の、 (808-369-3478) に、電話して、私たちに貴方の話されている言語を申し出てください。 다른언어로 도움이 필요하십니까? 저희가 무료로 통역을 제공합니다. (808-369-3478) 로 전화해서 사용하는 언어를 알려주십시요 Kwoj aikuij ke jiban kin juon bar kajin? Kim naj lewaj juon am dri ukok eo ejjelok wonen. Kirtok (808-369-3478) im kwalok non kim kajin ta eo kwo melele im kenono kake. E te mana'o mia se fesosoani i se isi gagana? Matou te fesosoani e ave atu fua se faaliliu upu mo oe. Vili mai i le numera lea (808-369-3478) pea e mana'o mia se fesosoani mo se faaliliu upu. ¿Necesita ayuda en otro idioma? Nosotros le ayudaremos a conseguir un intérprete gratuito. Llame al (808-369-3478) y diganos que idioma habla. Kailangan ba ninyo ng tulong sa ibang lengguwahe? Ikukuha namin kayo ng libreng tagasalin. Tumawag sa (808-369-3478) para sabihin kung anong lengguwahe ang nais ninyong gamitin. ‘Okú ke fie maʻu tokoni ʻi ha lea fakafonua ʻe taha? Temau kumi haʻo taha fakatonulea taʻetotongi. Telefoni ki he (808-369-3478) ke fakahā mai ʻa e lea fakafonua ʻokú ke lea aí. คุณต้องการความช่วยเหลือทางด้านภาษาหรือไม่ ทางเราจะจัดหาล่ามฟรีให้คุณ โทรที่เบอร์ (808-369-3478) และบอกเราว่าคุณพูดภาษาอะไร Bạn có cần giúp đỡ bằng ngôn ngữ khác không ? Chúng tôi se yêu cầu một người thông dịch viên miễn phí cho bạn. Gọi (808-369-3478) nói cho chúng tôi biết bạn dùng ngôn ngữ nào Gakinahanglan ka ba ug tabang sa imong pinulongan? Amo kang mahatagan ug libre nga maghuhubad. Tawag sa (808-369-3478) aron magpahibalo kung unsa ang imong sinulti-han. Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawai`i Department of Defense Ka ʻOihana Pili Kaua Search this site Search X icon RSS icon Facebook icon Youtube icon Home Divisions Hawaii Army National Guard Hawaii Air National Guard Hawaii Emergency Management Agency State Office of Veterans’ Services Civ-Mil Programs Staff Offices Diversity State Equal Employment Manager Inspector General Public Affairs Office Counterdrug Support Program HIARNG Environmental Office HING Human Resources Office State Department of Human Resources DOD Engineering Office Hawaiʻi State Approving Agency Department Info Leadership Admin Rules Newsletter Pupukahi The Hawaii Guardsmen Annual Reports Retiree News Freedom of Information Act Requests / UIPA Employment Verification Disaster Reports All FY-2019 FY-2018 Legislative Reports News Releases Links CAC Card FOIA/UIPA Request Information FOIA / UIPA Request Form Joint Staff Home » Hawai’i Department of Defense Community Support Hawai’i Department of Defense Community Support The State of Hawai’i Department of Defense welcomes the opportunity to connect our communities with the mission and capabilities of the Hawai’i Army and Air National Guard. As a community-based organization, the Hawaii National Guard supports and participates in events throughout the State of Hawai’i to benefit our citizens and give them insight into their National Guard. All efforts will be made to support legal requests for assistance, however explicit regulatory guidance specifies the type and timing of the support that we can provide. All requests are also subject to various State and Federal ethics rules and regulations and must be properly vetted prior to approval. If you’d like to request Hawaii National Guard participation or support for your organization or special event, please read below for specific information on how and when to make your request. By completely filling out and submitting DD Form 2535 , DD Form 2536 , or support request form (as applicable) 90 days prior to the event date, you greatly increase the chances that we will be able to assist you. If you still have questions about any part of the process, please contact us at: State of Hawaii Department of Defense Public Affairs Office (PAO) 3949 Diamond Head Road Honolulu, HI, 96816-4495 Phone: 808-441-7000 Request Support Support Services / Units Royal Guard The Royal Guard, a ceremonial unit which wears the historical uniforms and accouterments of King Kalakaua’s Royal Guard. Honor Guard Honor Guards can be established for the purpose of rendering military honors at public ceremonies and special events. 111th Army Band The 111th Army Band can provide music for public ceremonies and special events around Hawaii. Facility Use/Renta l Hawaii National Guard facilities are available for use or rental. Holder text Parade Entries Troops in formation or military vehicles pay tribute to the community’s investment in safeguarding Hawaii and the nation. Equipment Displays Hawaii National Guard equipment is available for display in conjunction with community events. Guest Speakers The Hawaii National Guard is capable of providing public speakers for schools, service clubs, and civic events around the state. National Guard Volunteers Special event organizers may request volunteer assistance. Holder text Flyovers / Static Displays Hawaii National Guard aircraft are available to perform flyovers for approved events. holder text Other Non-Emergency Military Support Requests The Hawaii National Guard can provide equipment or personnel to support other non-emergency military requests. holder text Film Requests With our varied terrain, spectacular ocean views and historic military structures, we can provide you with a space that meets your filming needs. Timeline All requests must be received 90 days prior to the event date. Processing takes 25 – 45 days depending on the complexity of the request. After 90 days, the request must be accompanied by a Letter of Lateness addressed to The Adjutant General, Hawaii National Guard. The letter must clearly articulate why the request is late and the inability to move the event date and how future requests will be made on time. Request Support Eligible Organizations Any federal, regional, state, or local governmental entity Charitable and non-profit organizations All Active Duty or Reserve Military elements requesting Hawaii National Guard Resources must first exhaust all resources up to the theater level. If Hawaii National Guard resources are still needed, the request must be routed through the requesting unit’s chain of command to their Theater Command; USARPAC, PACAF, MARFORPAC, USPACFLT then to HING for support. A CONOP is required for all military requests. Ineligible Requests Primarily fundraisers For-Profit Organizations Events that are not open to the public Partisan political events Facility Requests Fees are charged for all facility use. A representative from the Hawaii National Guard will contact the requestor upon command approval to collect payment. Approval Authority The Adjutant General Hawaii National Guard is the decision authority for all requests. Hawaii National Guard operational and training commitments take priority and may supersede a request. The REQUEST FOR MILITARY SUPPORT REVIEW/APPROVAL PROCESS Once the written request and accompanying DD Form 2535 or DD Form 2536 are received, it is logged for tracking purposes. You will receive a phone call or an email of the receipt of your request. A cursory review of your request by the Public Affairs Office will occur before being forwarded for legal review by (1) the Judge Advocate General (2) the U.S. Property and Fiscal Accounting Office (3) and finally The Adjutant General of the Hawaii National Guard. If your request is deemed not authorized by military regulations or non-supportable at this point, you will be notified. After being classified, as a request that we may legally support your request will be forwarded to a National Guard unit that possess the asset(s) you are requesting, for consideration. (NOTE: Even though a request is deemed legal, support is still dependent upon the availability of supporting personnel/equipment and may not conflict with regularly scheduled training or missions.) Once the unit has advised the PAO/Military Support section of acceptance and ability to execute the mission, you will be contacted directly by the unit supporting your request. From this point on you are authorized to conduct direct communication with that unit. Upon completion of your event, please send an e-mail addressing any comments or concerns reference the handling and support of your request. Thank you for taking the time to consider the Hawaii National Guard to be a part of your event. Request Status Call the HING Joint Operations Center at 808-672-1024 or email at [email protected] NOTICE TO VENDORS & PERMIT APPLICANTS RE GIFT RESTRICTIONS Under the State Ethics Code and Gifts law, State Department of Defense (“DOD”) employees are prohibited from accepting or receiving gifts from certain entities, including contractors, vendors, and licensees/permittees who request permission to use DOD property or facilities. Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes § 84-11; Hawaiʻi Administrative Rules § 21-7-2. The purpose of the Gifts law is to ensure that actions and decisions by state employees are not influenced by gifts and other types of personal rewards. Gifts (such as free meals, food vouchers, gift cards, gift baskets, and other items) may potentially raise ethics concerns, particularly when it comes to procurement, permitting, and other governmental actions affecting the public. About Us Contact Us Freedom of Information Act Requests / Uniform Information Practices Act Site Map Legislative Reports Language Access Coordinator Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy 808-441-7000 contact email Facebook | Hawaii Adjutant General Twitter | Hawaii Adjutant General Facebook | Hawaii Air National Guard Facebook | Hawaii Army National Guard Facebook | Hawaii Office of Veterans’ Services Facebook | Hawaii Emergency Management Agency Twitter | Hawaii Emergency Management Agency Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
