Source URL: https://www.greenbusiness.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawaii Green Business Program Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii Hawaii Green Business Program Search this site Search Home Program Description Apply Resources HGBP 10-Entry Level Green Event Tips Awardees Contact Us Home October is energy Awareness month!!! Join us for the 2024 Hawai‘i Green Business Program Forum Friday, November 8, 2024 from 9 - 11 am at the Prince Waikiki Hotel In-person Attendance Online Attendance Agenda Get recognized for your green practices 2024 - 2025 Please submit checklist for the HGBP Awards by December 27, 2024 Apply Here ANNOUNCING THE 2023-2024 HAWAI‘I GREEN BUSINESS AWARDEES! A total of 40 businesses, venues and events are the recipients of this year’s Hawai‘i Green Business Program awards for undertaking energy efficiency and sustainable business practices that will help their bottom line while advancing Hawai‘i’s clean energy and sustainability goals. About the Hawai‘i Green Business Program 2023 – 2024 Ceremony 2022 – 2023 Ceremony Aloha ! The Hawai‘i Green Business Program (HGBP) is a free state program that assists and recognizes businesses that strive to operate in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. A partnership between the Hawai‘i State Energy Office, the State’s Department of Health, and the Board of Water Supply, this program highlights businesses that are dedicated to creating a sustainable Hawai‘i. Brochure (PDF) Fact Sheet HGBP creates a profitable partnership between business, government, and a concerned public. Through improvements in operational efficiency, procurement procedures, regulatory compliance and community relations, HGBP members see improvement to their financial bottom line while supporting efforts towards a more sustainable Hawai‘i. Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy List 808.286.4730 [email protected] Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://greenbusiness.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Green-Business-Hotel-Forum-8.11.24.pdf) ---
Green Business
Forum 2024
AGENDA
Breakfast and Registration - 9:00 am
Presentations – 9:15 am
Prince Waikiki, Mauna Kea Beach Resort,
Hapuna Beach Resort
Hilton Grand Vacations Club, Hokulani,
Kings’ Land and Maui Bay Villas
Four Seasons Wailea, Lāna ʻ i and Sensei
Hawai‘i Energy and Board of Water Supply
Program Updates
Site Tour – 10:30 - 11:00 amGreen Hotels & Resorts
Prince Waikiki: Makiki Rm
Nov. 8th 2024
9 am - 11am 
Register Today!
*Hybrid options
available!

--- Text from PDF (https://greenbusiness.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/HGBP_Program_Brochure_Jan2024.pdf) ---
What  is the Hawaii Green 
Business  Program?  
The Hawaii  Green Business  Program 
is a free state program that assists and 
recognizes  businesses  that strive to 
operate  in an environmentally and 
socially responsible manner.  
Program  Mission:  
To help businesses go beyond 
compliance, particularly in the 
areas  of: 
oEnergy  Conservation
oWater  Conservation
oWaste  Reduction
oPollution  Prevention
oNatural  Resource  Preservation
oCommunity  Involvement
oCultural  Presentation
To facilitate opportunities for 
industry  members  to share 
sustainability  best practices.  
A partnership  between Hawai‘i  State 
Energy Office, Department of Health, 
Board  of Water  Supply,  and Hawai‘i 
Tourism  Authority.  
Step 1: Check List 
The checklist is a questionnaire 
assessing your business's green 
attributes and practices.  
1.Go to the HGBP website and  
download the checklist:  
greenbusiness.hawaii.gov/apply
2.Fill out the checklist and  
submit electronically to:
dbedt.hgbp@hawaii.gov
3.Your HGBP  coordinator will 
notify you if you may p roceed to 
the next  step.
Step 2: Submit  Metrics  
In order t o assess y our b usiness's 
efficiency, w e will n eed t o review 
your business's metrics (electricity, 
water, w aste, g as etc.) f rom t he 
past t wo years.  
Submit available me trics o r 
documentation to: 
dbedt.hgbp@hawaii.gov  Step 3: Site Visit  
Depending on the results from your 
checklist and metrics review, a site 
visit may be scheduled.  
HGBP repr esentatives will conduct 
an in -person site visit. During the 
visit we will review  the checklist  with 
you and your green team members, followed by a walk- around the 
property.
 
Maintaining  HGBP  Recognition  
Follow th ese s imple s teps to 
maintain your H GBP recognition. 
Go to the H GBP we bsite f or de tails 
on the va lidity of you r recognition.  
Within one m onth of  expiration, go  
to the H GBP we bsite a nd submit a n 
updated checklist  to: 
dbedt.hgbp@hawaii.g ov Green Business  Recognition  
After all three steps are completed, applicants will be eligible for recognition as a Green Business or event. Participants may be eligible to 
receive a plaque or certificate of 
recognition by the Governor for your environmental efforts. Additionally, the HGBP logo may be posted and 
businesses may pursue annual
 
re-submissions to improve  checklist 
scores.  
Businesses are encouraged to display the Hawaii Green Business Program logo, promote networking opportunities, public relations, and, most importantly, to  lead by example.
 
Become a Green 
Leader Today !  
greenbusiness.hawaii.gov  
January 2024

--- Text from PDF (https://greenbusiness.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/HGBP_FactSheet.pdf) ---
UHCC Energy 
Savings Program
Perfomance 
ContractingLEED and State 
BuildingsGreen Business 
AwardsEnergy Efficiency Spotlight
A shining example of how Hawai‘i is working to reach its goal 
of a 30% reduction in energy consumption by 2030.
STATE OF HA WAI‘I
HAWAI‘I GREEN BUSINESS PROGRAM
The state’s Hawai ‘i Green Business Program (HGBP) assists  
and re cognizes businesses that strive to operate in an 
environmentally, c ulturally a nd socially  responsible m anner.
PROGRAM MISSION
•To work with, assist, and recognize businesses that strive to operate in an environmentally and
socially responsible manner.
•To facilitate opportunities for industry members to share sustainability best practices.
•To help businesses go beyond compliance, particularly in the areas of:
•Energy Conservation
•Waste Reduction
•Pollution Prevention
•Water Conservation
•Natural Resource Preservation
•Community Involvement
•Cultural Preservation
The HGBP creates a profitable partnership between business, government, and a concerned public. 
Through improvements in operational efficiency, procurement procedures, regulatory compliance, 
and community relations, HGBP members see improvement to their financial bottom line, while 
supporting efforts towards a more sustainable Hawai‘i. Benefits Include:
•Reduced waste and utility costs
•Improved systems and equipment performance
•Positive public recognition and business promotion
•Attracting environmentally conscious customers
•Demonstrating community good will
•Establishing good relationships with regulators
•Providing a safer workplace
•Motivating and recognizing employees’ environmental efforts
•Free onsite compliance assistanceUHCC Energy 
Savings Program
Perfomance 
ContractingLEED and State 
BuildingsGreen Business 
Awards
energy.hawaii.gov October 2023To help businesses implement energy  and resource efficiency practices, the Hawai‘i Green Business 
Program was established as a partnership between the Hawai‘i State Energy Office, the state’s 
Department of Health, and the Board of Water Supply. Not only  does energy efficiency keep utility 
costs down and create a more sustainable environment, the businesses  also are contributing 
collectively to Hawai‘i’s energy efficiency goal. From 2009 through 2018, over 125 business and 
government entities—including sectors s uch as hospitality, commercial office, retail, restaurant and 
food services, grocery, venue and green events  have saved:
•23.5 million kWh of energy (equivalent to powering 3,620 homes for one year in Hawai‘i)
•244.1 million  gallons of water
•$6.6 million in energy costs
For more information on the Hawai‘i Green Business Program, 
visit energy.hawaii.gov /green-business-program
2022 Hawai‘i Green Business Awards Ceremony
