Source URL: https://www.earlylearning.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Executive Office on Early Learning (EOEL) Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer x Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaiʻi – Official Site Executive Office on Early Learning (EOEL) Search this site Search Facebook icon Instagram icon EOEL About Us Background Early Learning Board Legislation Meet Our Team Hawai’i Plans Hawaiʻi Attainment Goal Hawaiʻi Early Childhood State Plan Hawaiʻi’s Integrated Infant and Early Childhood Behavioral Health (IECBH) Plan Hawai’i State Literacy Plan Grants, Stipends, and Scholarships PDGBB5 Grant Early Childhood Educator Stipend Program Muʻo Scholarships We Support Early Childhood We VALUE Children and Families We SUPPORT our Workforce We CONNECT our Community Contact Us Early Childhood Educator Program EOEL Public Prekindergarten Program Job Openings Open/Read PDF Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://earlylearning.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Hawaii-Early-Literacy-Plan-2024-design-direction.pdf) ---
LITERACY PLAN 20241
HAWAII STATE LITERACY PLAN 2024GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND VALUES
Author: Lauren Padesky
‘Ike i ke au nui, me ke au iki.  
Know the big currents and the little currents.  
– ‘Olelo no’eau # 325
The Hawai’i State Early Literacy Plan is grounded in the following philosoph -
ical principles, which are underpinned by both practical and scientific knowl -
edge about high-quality early childhood literacy education. 
Philosophy of Children, 
Families, and Place
Children have a powerful, central hold on our 
collective work. Children must be the first 
priority in all early literacy practices, with a 
critical focus on each individual child as unique 
members of their classroom, home, and 
sociocultural communities. Therefore, children 
have the right to: (a) develop at their own 
pace, (b) experience individualized, responsive 
instruction that considers their needs and 
interests, and (c) enjoy genuine appreciation 
and consideration for their individual identities.
Children have strong grips on the hearts of 
their families and communities. Children’s 
families must be considered their first 
teachers, and early literacy practices must 
uplift the central role that families play in 
children’s lives. Therefore, children have the 
right to: (a) socially, culturally, and linguistically 
just literacy experiences, (b) inclusive literacy 
classrooms, practices, texts, and attitudes, 
(c) opportunities to experience diverse 
perspectives, ideas, and ways of knowing 
through literacy, and (d) literacy experiences 
that create opportunities for family 
engagement and participation.Philosophy of Literacy and 
Language Learning
All children, at all developmental stages, are 
ready for rich, varied language and literacy 
experiences. Though they are small, their 
capacity to learn is large, and teachers have 
the responsibility to examine their beliefs 
about oral language and literacy instruction 
in order to best serve each child. Therefore, 
children have the right to: (a) respectful, 
developmentally appropriate assessments 
that provide information about strengths 
and next steps in language and literacy, (b) 
opportunities to learn needed skills/knowledge 
without judgment, and (c) access to extended 
resources and supports based on individual 
strengths and needs.
Small literacy events about small literacy skills 
build up to long-term literacy outcomes for 
young children. We know that early literacy 
is composed of multiple skill and knowledge 
strands, and that each deserves attention in 
order for children to grow; we also know that 
small bursts of contextualized, play-driven 
teaching is most meaningful for big literacy 
learning. Therefore, children have the right 
to: (a) developmentally appropriate language 2
HAWAII STATE LITERACY PLAN 2024EXPERIENCING PICTURE BOOKS 
TOGETHER
Author: Coleen Momohara
Picture books, at first, are novel objects for young children that gradually 
evolve into intriguing forms of print and art media. As such, quality picture 
books capture children’s curiosity and imaginations, inviting them to 
play with words, ideas, information, and stories created by authors and 
illustrators. 
Reading aloud to and with children and 
engaging together during the read-aloud 
is highly valued when promoting language 
and literacy learning. The focus is generally 
on its value for young children. Yet there is 
something magical about picture books when 
children experience with adults the interactive 
processes embedded within read-alouds and 
conversations. Reading (and re-reading) picture 
books with young children allows adults to 
personally connect with literature in ways that 
move beyond the reading aloud of words. 
Quality picture books embody literature that 
speaks to all, not only to young children. They 
are not only venues for language and literacy 
learning; literature paints a social-cultural 
context for children and adults to situate 
themselves within as they engage in a shared 
literary experience.A Shared Literature 
Experience
When children and adults are “present” in the 
moment with each other, they are sharing the 
experience of interacting with the contents of 
the picture book (e.g., the words and pictures; 
the story line and its characters; information, 
big ideas, and key details within the words 
and illustrations). Their conversations extend 
beyond the contents to the author’s and 
illustrator’s purpose, craft, and perspectives. 
They flow through interchanges sharing their 
connections, interpretations, and insights. 
In addition to individually connecting with 
picture books, they are connecting with 
each other through picture books. These 
shared experiences invite children and adults 
3
HAWAII STATE LITERACY PLAN 2024to co-construct their understanding and 
appreciation for the literature that lives within 
the picture books, especially through ongoing 
re-readings. They are able to look at the text 
and illustrations through each other’s eyes 
thereby expanding their own understanding 
and perspective. Although their individual 
backgrounds, experiences, and presence shape 
the way they experience the literature, their 
collective experience influences their individual 
experiences as they make sense of what they 
are reading. 
Of importance within these literature 
experiences is sharing their thinking with each 
other – how they are trying to make sense of 
things, what resonates with them, what they 
are being led to think, what they notice and 
how it influences their thinking, and what they 
are learning. The opportunities to take part in 
and contribute to such rich and meaningful 
conversations position children to not only 
engage in back-and-forth dialogue with adults 
(while also building their language skills), but 
to collaborate in revisiting and reflecting on 
the literary experience as they move towards 
a shared understanding of the picture book. 
Together, they put forth relevant information, 
respond to and build on what each other 
says, examine similarities and differences, 
and analyze and synthesize ideas. They both, 
children and adults alike, experience gradual 
changes and shifts in what and how they think.
Children and Adults as 
Collaborators 
Thinking and learning together creates spaces 
for children to share their observations, 
wonderings, and meaning-making strategies. 
Children’s strengths as thinkers with their 
unique experiential background and expertise 
are recognized. This enables children to see themselves as literary artists – storytellers; 
holders and translators of knowledge; readers 
and writers of literature. Furthermore, by 
infusing their ideas, perspectives, and insights 
into the ebb and flow of the experience, 
children make possible what adults could not 
have encountered on their own. Children’s 
participation changes the experience for 
adults; their voices matter. 
Through others we become ourselves  
– Lev Vygotsky
For adults, sharing in the experience 
with children can be both humbling and 
empowering as they realize how amazing 
children’s capacities are and recognize their 
own capacities to provoke and nurture learning 
opportunities for children through quality 
interactions. Drawn into these processes as 
models and facilitators, adults reap the benefits 
of learning more about children as individuals 
as well as furthering language and literacy 
learning for children. Adults model, provide 
specific feedback, pause and listen attentively, 
paraphrase, ask thoughtful and thought-
provoking questions, and engage in multiple 
perspective thinking. They share in curiosities, 
including their curiosity behind children’s 
thinking. They inspire through their words and 
actions, while appreciating what children bring 
into the experience. 
At the core of language and literacy learning 
are the human connections that are formed 
through respectful, responsive, reciprocal 
relationships, see Figure. Fond memories 
of stories and books emerge through the 
meaningful and nurturing interactions 
surrounding the experiences with literacy and 
books. They define the quality and content 
of child-adult relationships with regard to 4
HAWAII STATE LITERACY PLAN 2024literacy. They provide children with the “feel” 
and “culture” of reading. Together, children 
and adults create shared experiences as they 
live within the pages of quality picture books. 
Picture books are the venue; engaging together 
within, around, and beyond the literature through multiple readings and interactive 
conversations enable children and adults to 
learn and grow from, with, and through each 
other. 
Experiencing 
books together; 
engaging in shared 
literature experiences; 
building shared 
understandingChild interacting  
with literatureAdult interacting 
with literature

--- Text from PDF (https://earlylearning.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/lk_ccRelease-Chaminade-KS-Partnership-5.3.23_ws.pdf) ---
PRESS RELEASE Contact: Cathy Lee Chong  
catherine.chong@chaminade.edu  (808) 554 -2009 
 
 
 Ensuring a Great Start for Hawaiʻi’s Keiki  
Teacher Prep Partnership between Chaminade University and Kamehameha Schools  
150 College Scholarships for Early Education, Primary and Secondary Teachers  
 
 
Wednesday, May 3, 2023  
1 pm to 1:30 pm  
Ceremonial Chambers of  
Office of the Lt. Governor, State Capitol, fifth floor  
 
 
(Honolulu, Hawaiʻi) - There is a critical need for earl y education, primary and secondary 
teachers in Hawaiʻi and across the nation. This shortage of educators  has led to an 
innovative and community -focused teacher prep partnership between Chaminade University 
and Kamehameha Schools to provide 150 Muʻo Scholarships  to educate, train and prepare 
aspiring teachers to lead Hawaiʻi’s classrooms.  
 
This partnership provides full -tuition scholarships, and aligns with  Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke’s 
“Ready Keiki” program, which aims to create universal preschool access for all of Hawaiʻi’s 
3- and 4- year-olds by 2032.  
 
On Wednesday, May 3, Chaminade University, Kamehameha Schools and the Office of the 
Lieutenant Governor held a press conference to share details of this partnership, and how 
these future teachers will positively impact Hawaiʻi.  
 
“We are excited to announce this partnership with Kamehameha Schools, which directly 
address es one of our most pressing community issues: a teacher shortage,” says 
Chaminade University President Dr. Lynn Babington. “By providing these scholarships, we’re removing barriers that too often hinder many working adults in the state f rom  
obtaining a bachelor’s degree while still maintaining family and work commitments.”  
 
“Every keiki should have access to early learning, which provides a strong foundation for a 
lifetime of learning,” said Dr. Waiʻaleʻale Sarsona, vice president of Hiʻialo at Kamehameha 
Schools. “We are committed to help make this vision a reality, and this latest partnership 
with Chaminade University will bring Hawaiʻi closer to achieving this goal.”  
  
Beginning Fall 2023, Chaminade University and Kamehameha Schools will of fer 50 
students full -tuition Muʻo Scholarships to Chaminade’s online bachelor’s program to 
become teachers here in Hawaiʻi, prioritizing early learning. This enrollment will continue for 
two additional years for a total of 150 funded scholarships as a part nership through KS 
Kaiāulu, a new way for Kamehameha Schools to impact keiki and ʻohana in the kaiāulu 
(community) alongside community partners.  
 
 
The press conference ran from 1 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. Guest speakers included:  
 
● The Honorable Sylvia Luke, Lieutenant Governo r, State of Hawaiʻi  
● Dr. Lynn Babington, President of Chaminade University  
● Dr. Waiʻaleʻale Sarsona, Vice President of Hiʻialo, Kamehameha Schools   
 
Chaminade University’s online bachelor’s degree program is designed for working adults in 
Hawai‘i who may already be serving as a teacher’s aide or, currently, in a similar position. 
The online delivery format will allow students to continue working while pursuing their 
bachelor's degree. Program information is available and applications for the scholarships 
are being accepted. This transformative program is 100 percent online, with a requ irement 
to complete a student -teaching track. Students will be paired with an academic advisor to 
guide them on the road to graduation.  
 
Applications are open to all Hawaiʻi residents with additional consideration extended to 
those of Native Hawaiian ances try. Recruitment and admittance priority will also be given to 
early childhood education applicants.  
 
Chaminade University  and Kamehameha Schools  are institutions that value education and 
understand how teachers —at the early stages of childhood—have a positive impact on kids, 
their families and the community -at-large. This partnership is a testament to their 
commitment.  
 
Lt. Gov. Sylvia Lukeʻs  Ready Keiki  plan will create 80 preschool classrooms by August 2024 
and 465 classrooms by 2032. The plan identifies sites for additional classrooms, increases 
provider subsidies to expand access to children from lower -income househol ds, and envisions 
educational partnerships to train new preschool teachers and assistants.  
 
 
 
### 
Link to B -roll 
 
Link to time codes
