Source URL: https://data.capitol.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawaii State Legislature 2025 HOUSE AND SENATE SESSION JOB OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE NOW skip to main content Hawai‘i State Legislature Ka ‘Aha‘ōlelo Moku‘āina ‘O Hawai‘i Account Login Navigation Log In | Register Website Search Select Search Type Measure Status Hawaii Revised Statutes Session Laws Keyword LEGISLATURE HOUSE House Members SENATE Senate Members COMMITTEES FIND YOUR LEGISLATOR EVENTS UPCOMING HEARINGS ORDER OF THE DAY LIVE AND ON-DEMAND VIDEO LEGISLATIVE CALENDAR PARTICIPATE SUBMIT TESTIMONY HEARING NOTIFICATION MEASURE TRACKING CONTACT LEGISLATORS PUBLIC ACCESS ROOM LAWS & RESEARCH HAWAIʻI REVISED STATUTES SESSION LAWS REPORTS AND LISTS SPECIAL STUDIES LEGISLATIVE INFO BUDGET GRANT-IN-AID ARCHIVES 2024 DOCUMENT INDEX HELP & INFO TESTIMONY AND LOGIN FAQs MAPS & DIRECTORIES LEGISLATIVE GLOSSARY RSS FEEDS PUBLIC ACCESS ROOM CONTACT US Aloha! Welcome to the Hawaii State Legislature. House of Representatives Hale o nā Luna Maka‘āinana The Hawai‘i House of Representatives consists of 51 members representing geographicly designated districts across the state. Learn more Senate Ka ‘Aha Kenekoa The Hawai‘i State Senate consists of 25 members representing an equal number of constituent districts across the state. Learn more Public Access Room PAR provides the public with information, facilities, and services to assist them as they engage and participate in the State legislative process. Learn more My Legislature Submit testimony, track measures, and manage hearing notifications View Hearings View list of current and upcoming hearings and hearing notices View Live & On-Demand Video View live and on demand videos of committee hearings and floor sessions View Reports & Lists Lookup current and past legislative reports and lists View Announcements Need help navigating our new website? Click here to view the Public Access Room's comprehensive guide. The State Capitol is open to the public. Photo ID required for building entry. Click here for information on building hours, entry requirements, and parking. Proposed Constitutional Amendment Publication: (English | Chinese | Hawaiian | Ilocano | Tagalog) Reports to the Legislature - Temporary Listing 2025 Legislative Session Employment Opportunities with the House Employment Opportunities with the Senate Session Info The Legislature has adjourned sine die. 2024 First Special Session 2024 Legislative Session Watch a video on how to submit testimony online Extension of Budget Decking Deadline 2024 BUDGET BILL Conference Committee Procedures 2024 Committees on Conference Procedures 2024 Committees on Conference Room Scheduling Procedures and Guidelines 2024 Committees on Conference Room Assignment Schedule Testimony Submission Instructions 2024 House Committee Hearing and Conference Room Schedule 2024 Senate Committee Hearing and Conference Room Schedule House Leadership and Committee Assignments Senate Leadership and Committee Assignments 2024 Legislative Timetable Legislature House Senate House Jobs Senate Jobs Executive Governor Josh Green Lt. Governor Sylvia Luke Judiciary Hawaii State Judiciary Reference Legislative Reference Bureau Public Access Room Hawaii Directory State, County, and Federal Officials Contact Hawaiʻi State Capitol 415 South Beretania St. Honolulu, HI 96813 Contact Us Offices Hawaii State Ethics Commission Office of the Auditor Office of the Ombudsman Office of Information Practices Office of Hawaiian Affairs Hawaii Government Services U.S. Legislators U.S. Rep Jill Tokuda U.S. Rep Ed Case U.S. Senator Mazie Hirono U.S. Senator Brian Schatz County C&C of Honolulu County of Maui County of Kauaʻi County of Hawaii Related Links ‘Ōlelo Community Television Akaku: Maui Community Television Hō‘ike: Kaua‘i Community Television Na Leo O Hawai‘i: Big Island Community Television National Conference of State Legislatures Council of State Governments Council of State Governments-West Please be advised that these pages may contain links to external Internet sites established by other entities. The Hawaii State Legislature does not maintain, review, or endorse these sites and is not responsible for their content. We make every effort to comply to ADA standards, and Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. Visit our ADA page here or press Ctrl+U to activate our accessibility menu. If you have any problems with any of these pages, please contact the webmaster with the page address and problems encountered. You may view our Privacy Policy here. Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://data.capitol.hawaii.gov/docs/sessioncalendar.pdf) ---
2024 Session Calendar  
Note:  On the 60  session days (days when members convene in their respective chambers),  
the session day count appears in a box on the lower -right, like this.  ►►► 
Color code:       = bills            = resolutions           = budget or fiscal bills                      See reverse side for more deadline information  
 
Sun Mon  Tue  Wed  Thu  Fri Sat 
January  
 17   
Opening Day 18 
 19 
Non-Admin B ill 
Package Cutoff   
& Grants/Subsidies 
Cutoff   20 
21 
 22 
State -of-the- 
State Address & 
Admin istration  Bill 
Package Cutoff 23  
 
Recess #1 24  
Bill Intro Cutoff  25  
 
Recess #2 26 27 
28 29 30 31  
February  1 
 2 
 3 
4 5 
 6 
 7 
Triple Referral  
Filing ( House Bills)  
 8 
Triple Referral  
Filing ( Senate Bills)  9 
 10 
11 12 
 13 
 14 
 15 
First Lateral  
Filing  (Bills)   
 16 
First Lateral  
(Bills) 17 
18 19 
HOL IDAY  
Presidents' Day  
 20 
 21 
 22 
Mandatory 5-  Day 
Recess Begins  23 
 24 
25 26 27 28 
Mandatory 5- Day 
Recess Ends 29  
Single Referral  
Filing  (SB’s )  
March  
 1 
First Decking  
(Bills)  
 2 
3 4  
Recess # 3 
 5 
 
 6 
Recess # 4 
 7 
First Crossover  
(Bills)  8 
Subst antive   
Resolution  
Cutoff  
 9 
10 11 
Budget  
Decking 12 13 
Budget  
Crossover 14 
Triple Referral         
Filing (Bills)  
 15 16 
17 18  
 19 20 
 21 
Second Lateral   
Filing (Bills)  
 22 
Second Lateral  
(Bills) 23 
24 25 
First Lateral (Senate 
Concurrent Resos)  
 
 26 
HOLIDAY  
Kuhio Day  
 27  
First Lateral  Filing  
(House Concurrent 
Resos)  28 
First Lateral 
(House Concurrent 
Resos)  
 29 
HOLIDAY   
Good Friday  30 
31 April     
 1 
  2 
 3 
First Crossover Filing 
(Concurrent Resos)  
 4 
First Crossover  
(Concurrent Resos)  
Single Referral 
Filing  (HB’s) 5 
Second Decking  
(Bills)  6 
7 8 
Recess # 5 
 9 10  
Recess # 6 11 
Second  
Crossover  (Bills)  
& Disagree 
 12   13 
14 15 
Second Lateral 
(Senate Concurrent 
Reso s) 
 16 
 17 
 18 
 19 Constitutional  
Amendments  
Second Crossover  
Filing (Amended  
CR’S ) 20 
21 22 Second Crossover 
(Concurrent Resos)  
Final Decking  
(Budget Bill)  23 
 24 
Recess  #7 25 
Final Decking  
(Non -Fiscal  
Bills)    26 
  Final Decking  
  (Fiscal Bills)  27 
28 29 
Recess  #8 30 
Recess  #9  
May  
 1 
 2 
Recess  #10 
 3 
Adjournment Sine Die  
Public Access Room (PAR): phone 808/587- 0478; email par@capitol.hawaii.gov ; website LRBhawaii. gov/PAR   [12/26/2023 ] 4 5 
 2 1 
 3 
 
6 
15 12 13 
17 18 21 
23 22
 16 
19 8 7 9 
11 10 
28 26 27 
29 30 33 
34 35 32 
36 37 
42
 
48
 
52 53 54 
55 56 57 51 
 50
 46
 31 
43
 
 44
 
 45
 
47
 
58 38
 
41 40
 
49
 # 
25 
59
 14 
60 24 
39
 20  2024  SESSION CALENDAR :  A GUIDE TO THE DEADLINES  
JAN 17   OPENING DAY – Hawaii’s constitution mandates that the regular legislative session starts at 10:00 a.m. on the third Wednesday of January.  
JAN 19   LAST DAY TO INTRODUCE ALL NON-ADMINISTRATION BILL PACKAGES – Bills bundled together by common interest groups and accepted and 
labeled as a package by the clerks.  You can view the various packages of legislation by clicking on the " Reports and Lists " button on 
capitol.hawaii.gov . 
JAN 19   LAST DAY FOR ORGANIZATIONS TO SUBMIT GRANT AND SUBSIDY REQUESTS  – Deadline for “Grant -in-Aid” (GIA) applications. Grants may be 
appropriated to nonprofit and other organizations for various public purposes that are recognized as priorities and are seen as complimentary to 
state government functions. Applications, information, and more specifics regarding the deadline appear under " Legislative Information " on 
capitol.hawaii.gov . 
JAN 22   STATE -OF-THE-STATE ADDRESS  – The Governor’s annual address to the assembled joint legislature. The address presents an opportunity for 
the Governor to report on affairs of state, and to put forth recommendations and initiatives. Many visitors come to the Capit ol to hear the 
Governor’s speech and witness the proceedings from the gallery (accessible on the ground floor/atrium level).    
JAN 22   LAST DAY TO INTRODUCE ADMINISTRATION BILL PACKAGE  – This is what is known as the “Governor’s Package.” The bills are prepared by 
executive branch agencies for consideration by the legislature and are introduced on behalf of the executive branch by the President of the 
Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. View the package of legislation by clicking on the " Reports and Lists " button on 
capitol.hawaii.gov . 
JAN 24   LAST DAY TO INTRODUCE BILLS – A bill is “introduced” when it has been filed with the House or Senate Clerk, who gives it a number (with an 
HB or SB prefix) and then puts it on the calendar for First Reading by the chamber. After First Reading, it is given its comm ittee referrals whi ch 
specify which committees must hear and pass the measure for it to succeed. Only legislators may introduce bills. [Note: At introduction, each bill 
is given a “Bill Status” webpage that can be accessed via the Legislature’s website (capitol.hawaii.gov ) and used to track all the measure’s 
activity.]  
FEB 7 (HOUSE ) & 8 (SENATE )  TRIPLE  REFERRAL  FILING  (BILLS) – All bills referred to three or more committees must be filed so that they can be in their 
second- to-last committee by the following  day. (Note: A referral to a joint committee counts as one committee referral.) This deadline allows 
ample time for successful bills to make their way to the last  committee in their originating chamber by the First Lateral deadline.  
FEB 15  FIRST LATERAL FILING (BILLS) –  Filing Deadline for First Lateral Bills.  
FEB 16  FIRST  LATERAL (BILLS) – All bills referred to more than one committee (i.e., those with multiple referrals) must move to their final committee in 
the originating chamber by this day.  
FEB 22 - 28 MANDATORY 5-DAY RECESS  – Hawaii’s Constitution mandates a 5 -day recess between the 20th and 40th days of the regular session.  
Neither the House of Representatives nor the Senate convene or assemble formally in chamber on recess days. Committee hearings do take 
place.  
FEB 29  SINGLE REFERRAL FILING (SENATE BILLS) – Deadline to file Senate committee reports on single referral Senate Bills.  
MAR 1   FIRST DECKING (BILLS) – Deadline for bills to emerge from all their committees (with committee reports filed) and be submitted to the clerk of 
the originating chamber. This “decking” ensures a mandatory 48 hour  opportunity for final review by the chamber’s members before they are 
asked to vote on the third reading. Note: A bill must pass three readings (votes) in each chamber before being enrolled to the governor.  
MAR 7   FIRST CROSSOVER  (BILLS) – Deadline for bills to pass third reading in order to move (or “crossover”) to the other chamber. If successful, 
House bills are sent to the Senate and Senate bills are sent to the House for further consideration.  
MAR 8   LAST DAY TO INTRODUCE SUBSTANTIVE RESOLUTIONS  – Resolutions are legislative measures which may request action of a government entity 
or state the legislature’s position on an issue. They don’t have the force and effect of law, require only one reading in chamber, and don't enroll  
to the Governor.  
MAR 11   BUDGET DECKING  – Deadline for submitting the budget bill for third reading.  
MAR 13   BUDGET CROSSOVER – Last day for third reading of the budget bill in order to move to the other chamber.   
MAR 14  TRIPLE REFERRAL  FILING  (BILLS) – All bills referred to three or more committees must be filed so that they can be in their second- to-last 
committee in the non- originating chamber the following day . (Note: A referral to a joint committee counts as one committee referral.) This 
deadline allows ample time for successful bills to make their way to their last  committee by the Second Lateral deadline.  
MAR 21  SECOND LATERAL FILING (BILLS) – Filing Deadline for Second Lateral Bills.  
MAR 22  SECOND LATERAL  (BILLS) – All bills with multiple referrals must move to their final  referral committee in the non- originating chamber by this 
date.  
MAR 25 (SENATE ) & 28 (HOUSE ) FIRST LATERAL FOR CONCURRENT RESOLUTION S – Concurrent resolutions require adoption in each chamber and are 
used to state the official position of the Legislature on an issue, or to request action formally without having to mandate i t by law. All concurrent 
resolutions with multiple referrals must  move to their final committee in the originating chamber by this date . 
APR 3  FIRST CROSSOVER FILING FOR CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS  –Filing Deadline for First Crossover for concurrent resolutions.  
APR 4  FIRST  CROSSOVER FOR CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS  –Deadline for passing the single floor vote for adoption required for resolutions in order to 
move from the originating chamber to the other chamber.  
APR 4  SINGLE REFERRAL FILING  (HOUSE BILLS)  – Deadline to file Senate committee reports on single referral House Bills  
APR 5   SECOND DECKING  (BILLS) – Deadline for bills that have been amended by the non- originating chamber to emerge from all their committees 
(with c ommittee  reports filed) and be submitted to the clerk of that chamber . This “decking” ensures a mandatory 48-hour opportunity for final 
review by the non- originating chamber’s members before third reading.  
APR 11  SECOND CROSSOVER  (BILLS) – Deadline for bills to pass third reading in their non- originating chamber in order to “cross back” to the 
originating chamber.  
APR 11   LAST DAY FOR THE ORIGINATING BODY TO DISAGREE WITH BILL AMENDMENTS  – The deadline for the originating chamber to disagree with 
changes made to its bills by the other chamber. When the Senate and House disagree on a bill, members from each chamber can meet in a 
“conference” committee to reconcile their differences.  
APR 15    SECOND LATERAL FOR SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS  – All Senate concurrent resolutions with multiple referrals must move to their final 
House committee by this date.  
APR 19   DEADLINE FOR FINAL FORM OF BILLS PROPOSING CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS – A proposed amendment’s final form must be provided by 
written notice to the Governor at least 10 days prior to passing final reading by a 2/3 vote in each chamber. Once adopted by  the Legislature, 
the proposed amendment is submitted to the voters, in the f orm of a ‘yes or no’ question on the ballot, for ultimate decision.  
APR 19  SECOND CROSSOVER  FILING  (AMENDED CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS ) – Deadline to file committee reports on amended concurrent resolutions.  
APR 22  SECOND CROSSOVER FOR CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS  – Deadline for passing amended concurrent resolutions in the non- originating chamber 
in order to “cross back” to the originating chamber.  
APR 22  FINAL DECKING  BUDGET BILL – Deadline to file budget bill to deck for Final Reading.  
APR 25  FINAL DECKING OF NON-FISCAL BILLS – Deadline for submitting non- fiscal bills for final reading by both chambers.  
APR 26  FINAL DECKING OF FISCAL BILLS – Deadline for submitting fiscal bills for final reading by both chambers. Fiscal bills include appropriation or 
spending bills, tax credits, etc. , or any bill with a House Finance or Senate Ways and Means  referral . 
MAY 3  ADJOURNMENT SINE DIE – In Latin, “ sine die” means “without a day  specified for future meeting.” Adjournment sine die occurs on the 60th 
legislative day of a Regular Session and indicates a suspension of the business of the legislature indefinitely. Next , the Legislature will certify the bills 
whose form both chambers have agreed to and will transmit or “enroll” those bills to the Governor. Contact PAR for information regarding the 
Governor's deadlines.  
 
Public Access Room (PAR) : phone 808/587- 0478; email  par@capitol.hawaii.gov ; website LRBhawaii. gov/PAR   [12/26/20 23]

--- Text from PDF (https://data.capitol.hawaii.gov/docs/HiLegSiteGuide2022.pdf) ---
Table of Contents   Home page  p. 1  
 Tabs   p. 2-3  
 Measure Status Page  p. 4-5  
 Interactive Features  p. 6  
 Search Box  p. 7 
Reports and Lists  p. 7 
 On Your Phone  p. 8 
 
Published by the Public Access Room (PAR)  (lrb.hawaii.gov/par ), Phone: (808) 587- 0478, Email: par@capitol.hawaii.gov  
 
The Hawai ‘i State Legislature's website is a great resource , helping the public easily access information, track bills, and 
deliver testimony. This handout  introduce s you to some of the website's many useful features.  
 
HOMEPAGE:   capitol.hawaii.gov  
 
Masthead  
 
 
   
• As you navigate the site, y ou can return to the homepage at any time by clicking on  the Hawai ‘i state seal or 
the “Hawai ‘i State Legislature” title  in the upper left -hand corner.   
• Use the links at upper right to register and then log in to the website, so that you can use the interactive 
features (submit testimony, hearing notification, and measure tracking).  See p ages 6 for more in formation.  
• There’s a powerful search box  that you can use throughout the site – more on that on page 7. 
 
Tabs  
 
 
 
The new web design uses a tab structure  to allow you to quickly navigate t he site. 
See pages 2 -3 for more details on what you’ll find under each of the tabs.  
 
Shortcuts on the Homep age   
 
• “My Legislature”  provides you with a shortcut to the interactive features of the website, allows you to edit your 
account , and offers the “Find Your Legislator” feature . 
• “Hearings”  is a shortcut to the list of upcoming events, as well as a search tool for finding past hearings.  
• “Live & On -Demand Video”  brings you to links for the House and Senate YouTube channels, where you can 
watch current and past events . 
• “Reports & Lists”  is an easy shortcut to one of the “go to” pages of the website – where you can find all the bills 
and other measures, and various lists and reports. It’s also got a great search feature!   
Hawai ‘i State Legislature ’s 
WEBSITE GUIDE  
~ A Gateway to the Capitol ~  
capitol.hawaii.gov  
 
Page  2  Hawai‘ i State Legislature's Website  Guide   
 
 
The tabs at the top of the website  allow you to quickly find what you’re looking for.  
Here are the drop -down menus that appear by clicking on the  tabs and brief descriptions of what you’ll find there.  
Legislature  
House  and Senate : Easy access to legislators, leadership, special committees, 
employment information, other links  the chambers have provided , and the House or 
Senate journal (which documents  all the activity on the chamber floor).  
Committees :  View just the House committees, just the Senate, or both. Select a 
committee for contact information for chair, vice chair, and committee membership.  
Also, find committee contact information.  
Special S tudies : Links to special studies and information on special legislative 
committees and task forces. (For other reports, use  “Reports & Lists ,” accessible 
through a shortcut on the homepage or under the “Laws & Research” tab .) 
Find Your Legislator : E nter a n address and find the representative and senator who 
represent that area.  
 
 
Events  
Upcoming Hearings : View all of the hearings and informational briefings 
currently scheduled. Also  a tool to find particular events and past hearings.  
(This page is also accessible through a shortcut on the homepage.)  
Order of the Day :  View the day’s session agenda, or search for the agendas 
for a different date. Also quick links to YouTube coverage of  the sessions.  
Live and On- D emand Video : Brings you to links for the House and Senate 
YouTube channels, as well as the schedule for any cable broadcasts. (There’s 
also a shortcut to this webpage on the h omepage.)  
Legislative Calendar :  This is where you’ll find the calendar for the current 
Regular Session, which  shows all the legislative deadlines.  
 
 
Participate   
(find more information about some of these features on pages 6)  
Submit Testimony : Log in to the website and enter the bill number you’d like to 
testify on – then just fill out the form, indicate whether you’ll also be offering oral 
testimony, and write or attach your written testimony . 
Hearing Notification : D on’t miss a chance to testify! Log in and subscribe by bill 
number and/or by committee to receive an email when a hearing is scheduled.  
Measure Tracking :  If you’re following more than one or two bills, measure tracking 
will save you time and help you stay on top of things. Just log in, create a list, put 
the bills you’re interested  in on it, and generate a report.  
Contact Legislators :  Directory and access to legislators’ contact information and 
their webpages.  
Public Access Room  (PAR) : A link to PAR’s website, lrb.hawaii.gov/par . The website 
provides resources to help you learn more about the legislative process and how to 
get involved. On PAR’s “ Current Legislature ” page y ou can find helpful handouts (for example, a list of office managers, 
the “Which Deadlines Apply to My Bill?”  chart,  and a  sheet listing leadership and committees).  Tabs  
capitol.hawaii.gov  
Hawai‘ i State Legislature's Website  Guide  Page 3 Tabs  
capitol.hawaii.gov  
 
Laws & Research  
Hawaii Revised Statutes : Access the codified laws of the state of Hawai ‘i. (Note: 
To search within the HRS, use the search box at the top right corner of the 
website.)  
Session Laws :  Find any act since statehood through this handy feature. Also 
provides great indexes, if you’re not sure of the act number. (Note: To search within the Session Laws, use the search box at the top right corner of the website.)  
Reports and Lists :
  A wealth of information to be found here – everything from 
lists of all of the measures being considered, to measures by package or introducer, to vetoed items. And a great search feature! Use the drop down menu at the top of the page to select past years. (There’s also a shortcut to th is 
webpage on the homepage.) More information on page 7.  
Special Studies : L
 inks to special studies and information on special legislative 
committees and task forces. (For other reports, use “Reports and Lists.”)  
Legislative Info :  Links to special sessions , conference committee memos, and 
helpful documents like committee hearing schedules.  
Budget :  This is where you’ll find budget worksheets.  
Grant -in-Aid: Find the grant -in-aid application, review applicants’ submissions, 
and view awardees. Current year application usually appears in December/January.  
Archives :
 Looking for a bill from a previous session? This is where you can input 
the bill number and find the status sheet. Can also subject search in past years.  
[202 3]  Document Index : Current year document index – usually only helpful in case of website glitches, allows access to 
the backend of the more user -friendly lists available elsewhere on the website.  
 
 
 
Help & Info  
Testimony and Login: Assistance for some common problems encountered in 
using the i nteractive features of the website, and where to go for assistance. Also, 
ADA assistance.  
FAQs :  Provides some general information and answers frequently asked questions.  
Maps & Directories : Floor maps, chamber seating maps, and helpful directories.  
Legislative Glossary: A list of commonly used acronyms as well as a dictionary of 
legislative vocabulary. Note also the link to  HRS abbreviations available at top of 
page.  
RSS Feeds :  A quick guide to Real Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds availab le on the 
website.  
Public Access Room  ( PAR) : Another link to the Public Access Room (PAR) website 
(also available under the “Participate” tab), lrb.hawaii.gov/par . PAR provides a 
variety of resources to help you participate effectively in the legislative process.  
Contact Us : C ontact information for PAR, the clerks, the Legislative Reference 
Bureau (LRB) library, and webmaster. Also, handy links to contact lists of legislators.   
Tabs  
capitol.hawaii.gov  
Page  4  Hawai‘ i State Legislature's Website  Guide   
   Measure  Status Page  
To find a measure ’s status page , enter the measure number in  the search b ox  
or click the hyperlinked measure number in a report .  
See the next page for descriptions of the features noted below with circled letters.  
 
B  
C D  
G  A  
E  
H 
 F  
I 
 
Hawai‘ i State Legislature's Website  Guide  Page 5  
  
Measure  status pages  have been designed to offer easy access to up-to-date and relevant information.  
For convenience, we use “ bills” in examples and references th roughout this  guide,  but you can substitute the word 
with “measures” – which includes bills, resolutions, Governor’s Messages, and Judicial Communications.  
 
See the circled letters on the preceding page and read more about the co rresponding features here.  
 
Most Current Version of Measure:  Just click on the bill number at the top of the page and you'll be able 
to read the current version of the bill. It will appear in a web -based format – click on the Adobe Acrobat symbol 
next to it for the downloadable .pdf version. (While the content is identical, the .pdf version will show you the 
printed measure's page and line numbers, which is sometimes helpful when discussing the legislation .) 
 
Submit T estimony  
• A shortcut to the webform used to submit testimony appears on each bill 's status page. Log in to use – see pages 
6 for more information.  
• Please note that y ou are only able to submit testimony  if the bill is scheduled for a hearing and if the committee 
is acc epting testimony.  
 
Measure Title/Report Title/Description/etc. :  This top section shows the measure title , report title 
(keywords), and description (which changes as the bill changes) . While it may note a companion bill (an 
identically introduced bill in the other chamber at the start of session), there may be identical bills that are not 
listed. If the bill is part of a legislative package, it will be noted here. (Other bills in the package can be found on 
the “Reports and Lists” page.) The bill’s current referral reflects its most recent referral. The legislator(s) who 
introduced the measure are listed: the first name is considered the author of the bill, other names listed 
alphabetically in capital letters are primary introducers, and names listed alphabetically in upper and lower case 
letters are co -sponsors . A new feature that has been added: if the bill has been enacted, the act number will be 
listed here with a hyperlink to the governor’s message and the signed or stamped  enacted le gislation . 
 
All Versions of this Measure :  Links to current and previous versions of the bill are listed.  
 
Committee Reports :  Easy links to Committee Reports are listed chronologically, from oldest to most 
recent. Committee reports can be helpful in summariz ing changes made to the measure from one version to the 
next.  On occasion, more detailed discussion of the measure and addit ional considerations are noted.  
 
Testimony  
• Easy links to the written  testimony received  at each hearing.  
• Each link opens a searchable .pdf file.  
• Reviewing previously submitted testimony can be helpful in preparing your own, or understanding previous areas of discussion.  
 
Hearing Notices :  Lists all hearing notices for the measure. Click on “View” to see notice. Click on the 
YouTube logo to view the proceedings – in real time, or after the fact.  
 
Status Text:  This is a timeline listing  all the activity for a measure. Everything that happens to the bill or 
resolution will be posted here.  (An "S" nexts to the date indicates a Senate action; an "H" indicates a House 
action.)  You can click to “Sort by Date” and reverse the order of events, bringing the most recent to the top.  
 
Links : Note that at the bottom of the website you’ll find helpful links. Take a moment to see what’s there.  
  C  Measure  Status Page  
H  B  
E  
F  D  A  
G       
     
I 
 Page  6  Hawai‘ i State Legislature's Website  Guide   
 
The " Log In " and "Register " links are in the upper right corner . "Log In " and enter your  password.  
 
 
 
The "Submit Testimony"  feature  makes it easy to submit testimony . You'll upload the 
file that contains your testimony, or type it into the comments box on the form. You can also 
sign up to off fer oral testimony in person or on Zoom. Remember that a ll written testimony is 
public and will be posted online  – don’t include anything you don’t want to share . 
Select “Submit Testimony” using the “Participate” tab ’s drop -down menu  (or by using the “My Legislature” shortcut on 
the homepage). Next,  enter the bi ll number you want to testify on – its hearing information will appear along with a 
submission form. Proceed to fill out the form – you'll be asked if you are opposing or supporting the measure, testifying 
as a group or individual, and whether you'll just be submitting written testimony or also requesting to testify in person 
or remotely over Zoom. Then, use the " Choose File " or " Browse " button to upload the file you've saved on your 
computer that includes your testimony. (Another option: Y ou can just  type your testimony  directly in to the 
"Testimony/Comments " box.) When done, review your details. Once you’re ready, click " Submit ." That’s it! Your 
testimony confirmation will appear in the left -hand column, highlighted in green, showing that your written test imony 
was successfully processed and submitted. If you requested the opportunity to testify via Zoom, you'll also find a "Zoom requested" notation that, three hours prior to the hearing, will change into a "Join" button if your request was accepted.  
The 
"Hearing Notifications"  feature  lets you receive email notification of hearings for 
specific measures or committees.  It's a great way to make sure you don't miss the chance to 
testify!    
Once you’ve selected “Hearing Notifications”, you’ll see two columns:  "Subscribe by Measure" and " Subscribe by 
Committee ." To receive a hearing notice whenever a particular bill or resolution is scheduled for a hearing, simply enter 
the bill or resolution number in the " Subscribe by Measure" box on the left and clic k "Add." Repeat for all the measures 
you'd like to receive notices for. To use the " Subscribe by Committee" feature on the right, just click the box next to any 
committee whose hearing notices you'd like to receive.  Scroll down to see all of the committees . Then simply "Save and 
Exit" by clicking the button centered near the top of the page and you'll be good to go. Return to this feature any time 
you'd like to cancel or change your selections.  
 
If you’re following more than a couple of bills,  "Track Measures " comes in handy.  Once 
you’ve selected “ Track Measures ” you’ll be on a page where you'll be able to create, modify, 
or view your tracking reports.   
If you're just starting, simply enter a name in the box and click " Create List ." (You can create 
more than one  list, if you like , but usually one list is all you need. ) Your list’s name appears below.  
Next, click on " Show List " next to your list’s name. Now, the list's name will appear in the right -hand column. You can 
add as many measures to the list as  you like – just enter a bill number in the space and click on " Add a Measure ."  
Repeat the process until you've added all the bills you'd like to appear on that list. If you'd like, you can "Add Notes" for  
any item to personalize your report or highlight an item.  (Tip: To add multiple bills at a time, type them in one after the 
other, separating them with a comma.)   
Finally, click on the "Generate Report " button.  Your list appears as a handy report that shows each measure with its 
description and current status, and contains links to its status sheet and its current draft. (Note: The report is sort -able – 
just click the column headers. This is especially helpful to  find out which items have seen recent activity, or to have the 
bills listed in numerical order.)  You can also export reports in Excel or database formats, which can be useful when 
sharing information. Tips:  Use the landscape orientation for best results.  Save it as a .pdf file  if you  want to attach a 
report  to an email.  
Log In and …  
Get Hearing Notices, Submit Testimony, Track Measures  
 
Note : If this is your first time  using the interactive features of the website, you'll have to Register. Click on " Register " 
and enter your name, email address, and the password you'd like to use for the website. Y ou will be directed to go to  
your email account and open the email sent to you  by the website. Follow the instructions to confirm your acco unt.  
 
Hawai‘ i State Legislature's Website  Guide  Page 7 
Search Box 
 
   In the upper right corner  of the website, y ou have access to a powerful search engine. You’ll see that “Measure Status” 
is the default option. To find bills, resolutions, and other measures use  the “ Measure Status ” type  and enter the 
measure number (no periods, spaces, or draft numbers – for example, “HB123”  or “SCR25” ).  
Use the drop down menu for other search types. Looking for a word or phrase in the HRS? Select “ Hawai ‘i Revised 
Statutes ” to search the law books. Searching for a particular law that  was passed? The “ Session Laws ” will allow you to 
look for a word or phrase that appears in enacted legislation. Finally, there’s “ Keyword ” search – which will allow you to 
search the  current session’s legislation and committee reports . (Note: For advanced  users, check out the “Menu 
Assisted” and “Advanced” features on the results page.)  
“Reports and Lists" Page  
There's a wealth of  information  available on the "Reports and Lists " page. Click on the 
“Reports and Lists ” shortcut button on the h omepage or select it using the “Laws & Research” 
tab’s drop -down menu . 
 
When it opens,  you will see the heading " Deadline Tracking ." On the  right is a long list of 
reports that are just a click away  – take a moment and see what’s there. Using t hese as the 
session progresses will give you access to searchable  and sortable lists of measures that have 
survived significant deadlines. It's a great way to keep up with what's still viable.  
 
 
     Next, scroll down the list of 
headings on the left. There's a 
lot here! You'll be able to find reports based on committee referrals, who's introduced legislation, measures by package, and much more.  
 
 
 
  
Note: This page 's 
features are also 
available for previous 
years (back to 2013). 
Select the year here. 
Use the drop down 
menu to choose the 
type of search  
A useful feature for finding 
bills is " Subject Search."  
Enter a word or phrase 
exactly as you think it 
appears in a measure's title, 
report title, or description.  
     
  Page  8  Hawai‘ i State Legislature's Website  Guide  On Your Phone  
The Legislature’s website is also available on your cell phone!  The phone -configured version of the website  has the 
same functionality but  is narrow and longer,  so you may need to  scroll down to get the full picture.  
 
    
 
         
 
   
       
 
         
 
 [2/9/23] On the phone -configured 
website , click on the 3 lines  
icon to expand the menu – 
you’ll see the  same options as 
the tab view from the 
desktop -configured site.  
When you Log In , links to the 
interactive features appear.  
 
Tip: Keep scrolling!   
 
For Hearing Notifications,  
remember to scroll down to see 
the “Subscribe by Committee ” 
section underneath  “Subscribe 
by Measure. ” 
 
Similarly , when in the Track 
Measures  feature , after you 
click “Show List ” you will need to 
scroll down to see your list, and to click on “ Generate Report” to 
bring up  the report . 
If you need any 
assistance, please 
contact the   
Public Access Room 
(PAR)  
(808) 587-0478 
par@capitol.hawaii.gov

--- Text from PDF (https://data.capitol.hawaii.gov/Docs/2024_04_22_Extension_of_Budget_Decking_Deadline.pdf) ---
HAWAI’I STATELEGISLATURE
‘Aha’Olelo Moku’ãina ‘0HawaIi
STATECAPITOL
415SOUTH BERETANIA STREET
HONOLULU, HAWAII 96813
April22,2024
MEMORANDUM
TO: AllHouseandSenateMembers
FROM: President Ronald D.Kouchi
SpeakerScottK.Saiki
RE: Extension ofBudgetDeckingDeadline
OnDecember 21,2023,weissuedthe2024Legislative Timetable, whichdesignated
April22,2024asthedeadlinetofilethebudgetbilltodeckforFinalReading(“Budget
Decking”).
Whilemembers oftheSenateCommittee onWays&MeansandtheHouseCommittee
onFinancehavebeenearnestly anddiligently workingtofinishworkonthebudgetontime,
additional timeisnecessary tocomplete negotiations. Asitwouldbecontrarytotheinterests
oftheStateofHawaiitoallowthebudgettoremainincomplete duetoaninternallegislative
deadline, weherebyextend2024BudgetDeckingtoApril23,2024at11:30p.m.forfiling
conference committee reportsandconference draftsforthefollowing bills:
HB1800RELATING TOTHESTATEBUDGET
HB1911RELATING TOTHEJUDICIARY
Theothertimedeadlines established pursuant toRule11ofthe2024JointHouseand
SenateCommittee onConference Procedures, namelyconclusion ofnegotiations by6:00p.m.
andavailability ofconference committee reportsby9:00p.m.,shallremaininplace.Extension ofBudgetDeckingDeadline
April22,2024
Page2
Thisdeadline extension ismadepursuant totheauthority grantedtousasthepresiding
officersofourrespective chambers andbyRule13ofthe2024JointHouseandSenate
Committee onConference Procedures.
Ronald D.Kouchi‘4/ScottK.Saiki
President oftheSenate Speaker oftheHouse

--- Text from PDF (https://data.capitol.hawaii.gov/docs/testimonyinstructions.pdf) ---
Page 1 of 7 01/22/2 4 
 Hawai‘i State Legislature  
Regular Session of 2024 
 
Legislative  Committee Hearing s 
 
Photo ID is required for entrance to the State Capitol. Building hours are 7am to 
5pm, Monday – Friday. This policy is subject to change and may be adjusted based on 
evolving COVID -19 guidelines.  
 
• Livestream s. All Senate and House committee hearings and fl oor sessions will 
be streamed live on YouTube. Visit the Legislature’s Live & On- Demand Video 
webpage t o access the House and Senate YouTube channels.  
 
• Testimony. House and Senate standing committees are  accept ing written, in -
person, and remote testimony via Zoom.   
 
To testify on a measure scheduled for public hearing , please create an account 
on the Legislature’s website, use the online testimony form, and follow the 
procedures outlined in this document.  
o To register for an account: https://www.capitol.hawaii.gov/account/register.aspx
  
o To access the online testimony form: Sign in to your acc ount then click on 
a testimony button.  
 
Under My Legislature or Participate  Submit Testimony  
   
 On measure status page:  
 
 If you do not have internet access or need assistance to create an account or 
navigate the testimony process, contact the Legislature’s Public Access Room (PAR) at (808) 587 -0478 or par@capitol.hawaii.gov
. You can also visit PAR’s  
website  (https://lrb.hawaii.gov/par/ ), which has video tutorials, step- by-step 
instructions, and reference information about the legislative process and how to participate.  
  
Page 2 of 7 01/22/2 4 
  
To submit testimony , please visit the L egislature's website: 
www.capitol.hawaii.gov  
 
Create a free account, or sign in to an existing account, then click on the " Participate " 
drop down menu and select the "Submit Testimony" option to get started.  
 
 
 
 
 Enter the bill or measure number and click "Continue"  
 
 
 Double check that the measure number/title and hearing details listed on the right  are 
correct before proceeding. 
 
 Confirm that the name you enter in the "Testifier's Full Name" field is accurate and includes your first and last name. The field will initially show the name saved in your account information. Please edit the text if necessary.  
 
 
 If you are testifying via Zoom, please note that the name in this field must match how  
you will identify yourself in Zoom.  
 
  
Page 3 of 7 01/22/2 4 
 Select the appropriate radio buttons indicating your position on the measure and 
whether you are representing an organization.  
 
 
 When prompted, please indicate if you would also like to testify at the hearing in  person 
or remotely via videoconference.   
 
 
 
At the bottom of the form, upload your written testimony  OR type your comments in the 
text box provided. Review the information you entered, then click on "Submit."  
 
 
 
Page 4 of 7 01/22/2 4 
  
Please note the following:  
 
• The website will automatically log you out of  your account after 60 minutes of 
inactivity.  
 
• All testimony received by the Hawai‘i State Legislature is posted on our website and will be available  to the public. Please do not include information that you do 
not want disclosed public ly. 
 
• The number of testifiers and/or time allotted to each testifier may be limited by the Chair when necessary to adhere to the committee hearing schedule. Committees will accommodate as many  oral testimony requests as reasonably 
possible during the time allotted for the hearing. However, we cannot guarantee that everyone who requests to testify orally  will have an opportunity to speak 
during the hearing.  
 
• In the Senate, you must submit your request  to testify remotely at least 24 hours  
prior to the start of the hearing.  Late requests to testify remotely via Zoom may 
be made by contacting the committee  directly. Late r equests will be handled on a 
case- by-case basis.  
 
• In the House , submission  of testimony and requests to testify remotely 24 hours 
prior to the start of the hearing is strongly encouraged.  
  
VIDEOCONFERENCE TESTIMONY PROCEDURES  
 
After You Submit Your Request to Testify Remotely  
When logged in to your account on the Legislature’s website, you should see a note in the green “Your Testimony” section that says, “Zoom requested.” This confirms that both your written testimony and your request to testify remotely have been submitted to the committee.  
 
 
Page 5 of 7 01/22/2 4 
  
• If we can accommodate your request to testify via Zoom, you will receive acc ess 
to the Zoom link  for th e hearing three (3)  hours before the hearing begins . 
o To access the link, you will need to log in to your account on the 
Legislature's website, then c lick on the "Participate" drop down menu and 
select the "Submit Testimony" option to get started.  
 
 
 
 
 
o The Join meeting link  will be available to you in the green "Your 
Testimony" section on the left side of  your testimony page. 
 
 
 
• If we are not able to accommodate your request to testify, you will not receive access to the Zoom meeting link and the committee will notify you via email.  
 
• If you requested to testify  remotely but you are no longer able to attend the 
hearing  via Zoom , please contact the committee
 directly to notify them.  
 
• Zoom Meeting Schedules:  There will be one Zoom meeting scheduled per 
committee timeslot. Therefore, the Zoom meeting link you use to testify remotely may apply to more than one "agenda" or hearing notice.  
o Click here
 for the Senate  Committee Hearing Schedule.  
o Click here for the House  Committee Hearing Schedule.  
  
Before the Hearing  
The Zoom meeting will begin 15- 20 minutes prior to the scheduled start time for the 
hearing. Please join the meeting early so we can admit all participants from the waiting room before the hearing begins.  
• Please join the Zoom meeting using the first and last name you provided when submit ting your written testimony via the Legislature’s website. This is how we 
will identify you in the waiting room. Only testifiers who follow the registration process outlined above will be allowed to join the Zoom meeting.  
 If you're not familiar with Zoom,  please spend a few minutes reviewing the user 
interface ahead of time. This  link may be helpful: Joining a meeting
 
Page 6 of 7 01/22/2 4 
  
 
During the Hearing  
All testifiers must utilize their computer audio to participate and we strongly encourage 
you to share your video when testifying.  
• This link explains how to test your computer speaker and microphone 
 
• Please make sure your CHAT PANEL IS OPEN for the duration of the hearing 
and check it  often.  
o Legislative staff will use the chat function to communicate with you during the hearing.  
o If you have questions or run into technical problems, you can use the chat feature to send a message to the host of the meeting.  
o Please keep the chat traffic to a minimum and limited to technical 
questions only. No comments about the subject matter, please. Our staff will do their best to assist you but may not be able to respond to all chat messages. 
 
• During the hearing your mic and video camera should be muted/stopped unless it is your turn to testify. Legislative staff may mute participants or stop your video as necessary.  
 
• Testifiers will not be allowed to testify while driving.  
 
• When it is your turn to testify:  
o You will receive a request to share your video shortly before it is your turn. Please accept the request.  
o When the Chair calls on you, please unmute your microphone,  pause for a 
moment, then begin addressing the committee.  
 
• If you do not respond or encounter technical problems when the Chair calls on you, you may not be able to testify.  
  
Additional Tips and Reminders  
• To help ensure successful participation in the hearing, please test your audio and video before joining the meeting and check the chat panel frequently until it is your turn to testify.  
 
• Your internet speed will affect the quality of your audio and video in the meeting. The Legislature will not be responsible for users’ connection issues and technical problems. We recommend joining the meeting from a hard- wired broadband 
internet connection whenever possible.  
 
• To prevent audio feedback, the sound for any livestream or cable broadcasts of the hearing you have running in the background must be turned off or muted when it is your turn to testify  (There will be a 20 to 30 second delay from the 
Zoom meeting to the livestream). 
 
• You are participating in a public event that is being broadcast live. The Zoom audio/video of the hearing will be part of the public cable broadcast and/or Page 7 of 7 01/22/2 4 
 livestream  via the internet. Please minimize background noise and consider what 
is visible in the ba ckground of your webcam.  
 
 
• Please do not use a background, whether actual or virtual, showing any material 
that may be copyrighted, including material to which you own the copyright. Any such backgrounds may be in violation of YouTube policies and will result in your video being turned off or not allowing you to testify.  
  
Help and Support  
 
• For general help with navigating the legislative and committee hearing process , 
please contact the Public Access Room at (808) 587- 0478 or 
par@capitol.hawaii.gov  or visit PAR’s website at https://lrb.hawaii.gov/par/ . 
 
• For special assistance: If you need an auxiliary aid/service, other 
accommodation, or are unable to submit testimony via the website due to a 
disability, please contact the committee  directl y: 
https://www.capitol.hawaii.gov/legislature/committees.aspx?chamber=all

--- Text from PDF (https://data.capitol.hawaii.gov/docs/2023-24CommitteeHearingScheduleFINAL.pdf) ---
JDC
WAM
CPN
AEN
HHS
WTL
LBT
PSM
EDU
HWN
HOU
EET
TCA
GVO
HRE
This schedule includes start and end times for each committee hearing. Committees will be required to finish their hearings before their assigned timeslot ends.
01/10/233:00 P.M.Agriculture and Environment
Government Operations Energy, Economic Development, and Tourism2:30 P.M.
B
T, Th
Housing2:30 P.M. 1:00 P.M.3:00 P.M.
3:00 P.M.4:30 P.M.
C
Transportation and Culture and the Arts
Higher EducationHawaiian Affairs
1:00 P.M.1:00 P.M.
3:00 P.M.2:30 P.M.229
224START TIME
8:30 A.M.
8:30 A.M.
8:30 A.M.
1:00 P.M.
3:00 P.M.2:30 P.M. 224
2:30 P.M.M, W, F
M, W, FM, T, W, Th, F
2294:30 P.M.
4:30 P.M.M, W, F
EducationHealth and Human Services
M, W, FLabor and TechnologyWater and Land
Public Safety and Intergovernmental and 
Military Affairs225 1:00 P.M.
1:00 P.M.
M, W, F 225M, W, F
224224
229229
T, Th225 T, Th
T, ThT, Th
T, Th
225
3:00 P.M.4:30 P.M.
4:30 P.M.
4:30 P.M.2:30 P.M.SENATE COMMITTEE HEARING SCHEDULE
Thirty-Second Legislature
2023-2024
16
211DAYS
11:00 A.M.11:00 A.M.CONFERENCE 
ROOM COMMITTEE BRACKET END TIME
A M, T, W, Th, F Ways and Means
229Judiciary
11:00 A.M. Commerce and Consumer Protection M, T, W, Th, F

--- Text from PDF (https://data.capitol.hawaii.gov/docs/2024HouseLeadershipCommitteeAssignments.pdf) ---
Hawaii  House of Representatives  
Leadership & Committee Assignments  
Thirty -Second  Legislature  2023 -2024   
 
 
Speaker:   Scott K. Saiki      Minority Leader:  Lauren Matsumoto  
Vice Speaker:   Greggor Ilagan     Minority Floor Leader:  Diamond Garcia  
Majority Leader:   Nadine K. Nakamura    Minority Whip:   Kanani Souza  
Majority Floor Leader:  Dee Morikawa    Minority Policy Leader:  Gene Ward  
Majority Whip:  Scot Z. Matayoshi    Asst. Minority Leader:   David Alcos III  
Majority Whip:  Amy A. Perruso     Asst. Minority Floor Leader:  Elijah Pierick  
Majority Whip:  Gregg Takayama     
Majority Whip:  Chris Todd  
1/29/24 
 
Agriculture & Food Systems 
(AGR ) 
Cedric Asuega Gates , Chair  
Kirstin Kahaloa , Vice Chair  
Elle Cochran  
Nicole E. Lowen  
Amy A. Perruso  
Justin H. Woodson  
Gene Ward (R)  Consumer Protection & 
Commerce (CPC)  
Mark M. Nakashima , Chair  
Jackson D. Sayama , Vice  Chair  
Terez Amato  
Della Au Belatti  
Cedric Asuega Gates  
Mark J. Hashem  
Natalia Hussey -Burdick  
Nicole E. Lowen  
Richard H.K. Onishi  
Adrian K. Tam  
Elijah Pierick (R)  Corrections, Military, & 
Veterans (CMV)  
Mark J. Hashem , Chair  
Cory M. Chun , Vice Chair  
Sonny Ganaden  
Linda Ichiyama  
May Besario Mizuno  
Dee Morikawa  
Mahina Poepoe  
Gregg Takayama  
Kanani Souza (R)  
Culture, Arts, & International 
Affairs (CAI)  
Adrian K. Tam , Chair  
Rose Martinez , Vice Chair  
Andrew Takuya Garrett  
Jeanne Kapela  
Scot Z. Matayoshi  
Jackson D. Sayama  
David Alcos III  (R) Economic Development 
(ECD)  
Daniel Holt , Chair  
Rachele F. Lamosao , Vice Chair  
Natalia Hussey -Burdick  
Sam Satoru Kong  
Trish La Chica  
Nadine K. Nakamura  
Sean Quinlan  
Elijah Pierick (R)  Education (EDN)  
Justin H. Woodson, Chair  
Trish La Chica , Vice Chair  
Jeanne Kapela  
Lisa Marten  
Rose Martinez  
Scot Z. Matayoshi  
May Besario Mizuno  
Amy A. Perruso  
Sean Quinlan  
Chris Todd  
Diamond Garcia (R)  
  
 Energy & Environmental 
Protection (EEP)  
Nicole E. Lowen, Chair  
Elle Cochran , Vice Chair  
Cedric Asuega Gates  
Kirstin Kahaloa  
Amy A. Perruso  
Justin H. Woodson  
Gene Ward (R)  Finance (FIN)  
Kyle T. Yamashita , Chair  
Lisa Kitagawa , Vice Chair  
Micah P.K. Aiu  
Cory M. Chun  
Elle Cochran  
Andrew Takuya Garrett  
Kirstin Kahaloa  
Darius K. Kila  
Bertrand Kobayashi  
Rachele F. Lamosao  
Dee Morikawa  
Scott Y. Nishimoto  
Mahina Poepoe  
Jenna Takenouchi  
David Alcos III (R)  
Gene Ward (R)  Health  & Homelessness 
(HLT ) 
Della Au Belatti , Chair  
Jenna Takenouchi , Vice Chair  
Terez Amato  
Greggor Ilagan  
Bertrand Kobayashi  
Lisa Marten  
Scott Y. Nishimoto  
Diamond Garcia (R)  
Higher Education & 
Technology  (HET)  
Amy A. Perruso , Chair  
Jeanne Kapela , Vice Chair  
Trish La Chica  
Lisa Marten  
Rose Martinez  
Scot Z. Matayoshi  
May Besario Mizuno  
Sean Quinlan  
Chris Todd  
Justin H. Woodson  
Diamond Garcia (R)  Housing  (HSG)  
Luke A. Evslin , Chair  
Micah P.K. Aiu , Vice Chair  
Darius K. Kila  
Lisa Kitagawa  
Tyson K. Miyake  
Richard H.K. Onishi  
Chris Todd  
Lauren Matsumoto (R)  Human Services ( HUS ) 
Lisa Marten , Chair  
Terez Amato, Vice Chair  
Della Au Belatti  
Greggor Ilagan  
Bertrand Kobayashi  
Scott Y. Nishimoto  
Jenna Takenouchi  
Diamond Garcia (R)  
Judiciary & Hawaiian Affairs 
(JHA)  
David A. Tarnas , Chair  
Gregg Takayama , Vice Chair  
Luke A. Evslin  
Sonny Ganaden  
Daniel Holt  
Linda Ichiyama  
Greggor Ilagan  
Sam Sat oru Kong  
Tyson K. Miyake  
Kanani Souza (R)  Labor & Government 
Operations ( LGO ) 
Scot Z. Matayoshi , Chair  
Andrew Takuya Garrett , Vice 
Chair  
Jeanne Kapela  
Rose Martinez  
Jackson D. Sayama  
Adrian K. Tam  
David Alcos III (R)  Legislative Management 
(LMG)  
Nadine K. Nakamura,  Chair  
Dee Morikawa , Vice Chair  
Greggor Ilagan  
Lisa Kitagawa  
Lauren Matsumoto  (R) 
Tourism ( TOU ) 
Sean Quinlan, Chair  
Natalia Hussey -Burdick, Vice Chair  
Daniel Holt  
Sam Satoru Kong  
Trish La Chica  
Rachele F. Lamosao  
Nadine K. Nakamura  
Elijah Pierick (R)  Transportation (TRN)  
Chris Todd , Chair  
Darius K. Kila , Vice Chair  
Micah P.K. Aiu  
Luke A. Evslin  
Lisa Kitagawa  
Tyson K. Miyake  
Richard H.K. Onishi  
Lauren Matsumoto (R)  Water & Land (WAL)  
Linda Ichiyama , Chair  
Mahina Poepoe , Vice Chair  
Cory M. Chun  
Sonny Ganaden  
Mark J. Hashem  
May Besario Mizuno  
Dee Morikawa  
Gregg Takayama  
Kanani Souza (R)

--- Text from PDF (https://data.capitol.hawaii.gov/docs/sessioncalendar2024.pdf) ---
E
B
R
U
A
R
:‘‘
M
A
R
C
H
A
P
R
LNEWYEARSDAY2024 LEGISLATIVE TIMETABLE
7 3 9 10 ii 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
DR.MARTIN LUTHERNon-Admin BillPackageCutoffOPENING DAYKING,JR.DAY&Grants/Subsidies Cutoff
2 321 22 23 24 25 26 27
StateoftheState Address &RECESS #1 BillIntroCutoff RECESS #2 AdminBillPackageCutoff
456
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
-_____________ 12 3 14 15 16
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
17 18 15
18 19 20 21 22202321
24
PRESIDENTS’ DAYMandatory 5-DayRecess
Begins —
22 23
25 26 27 28 29
LastDayofMandatory
5.DayRecess
24
1 2
FirstDecking(Bills)
25
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
RECESS #3 RECESS #4 FirstCrossover (Bills) Substantive ResoCutoff
26 27 28
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
BudgetDecking BudgetCrossover
29 30 31 32 33
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
34 35 36 37 38
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
KUHIODAY GOODFRIDAY
39 40 41
31
2 3 4 5 6
FirstCrossoverSecondDecking(Bills((Concurrent Resos(
7 642 43
10 11 12 13
RECESS #5 RECESS #6SecondCrossover (Bills)&
Disagree
47
14 15 16 17 1848
19 20
Constitutional Amendments
50 51 52 53 54
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
SecondCrossover
(Concurrent Resos( &Final RECESS #7FinalDecking FinalDecking
Decking(Budget Bill((Non-Fiscal Bills) (FiscalBills)
87 58 55 55
28 29 30
RECESS #10 ADJOURNMENT SINEDIE
enSUNDAY. MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAYI
FI J
A
N
U
A
R
Y5
28 30 31
7 8 5
SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY
in
RECESS#8 RECESS#9
SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY
55]
D.Kouchi
President oftheSenateDate1Z44*r..%
ScottK.Saiki
Speaker oftheHouseP4I’1/ILI_33
Date
2024Legislative Timetable -Dec20BL 2024LEGISLATIVE TIMETABLE_______
DEADLINE OREVENT
OpeningDay.
3 Lastdaytointroduce allpackages ofbillsexceptfortheadministrations (StateExecutive Branch).
Lastdayfororganizations tosubmitgrantandsubsidyrequests totheLegislature.
4hStateoftheStateAddress
Lastdaytointroduce theadministrations package ofbills(StateExecutive Branch).
One-dayrecess.
51b.Lastdayforbillintroductions.
Mandatory 5-dayrecess.
Filingdeadline forFirstDecking. Lastdaytodecknon-budget billsforThirdReading intheoriginating
body.
One-dayrecess.
One-dayrecess.
27thFirstCrossover forbills.LastdayforThirdReadingofbillsintheoriginating body.
28hLastdaytointroducesubstantive resolutions.
29thFilingdeadlineforbudgetbills.
31M BudgetCrossover, LastdayforThirdReadingofbudgetbillsintheoriginating body.
45th FirstCrossover forconcurrent resolutions. Lastdaytopassconcurrent resolutions tothe
non-originating body.
46th FilingdeadlineforSecondDecking. Lastdaytodeckbillsthatwereamended bythereceiving(non
originating) body.
One-dayrecess.
One-dayrecess.
SecondCrossover forbills.LastdayforThirdReadingofbillsthatwereamended bythereceiving (non.
originating) body.
Disagree. Lastdaytodisagreewiththeotherbody’sdraftsofbills.
54thDeadline fortransmittal offinalformofConstitutional Amendments totheGovernor.
55th SecondCrossover forconcurrent resolutions. Lastdaytopassconcurrent resolutions thatwere
amended bythereceiving (non-originating) body.
LastdaytofilebudgetbilltodeckforFinalReading.
One-dayrecess.
57thLastdaytofilenon-fiscal billstodeckforFinalReading.
58thLastdaytofilefiscalbillstodeckforFinalReading.
One-dayrecess.
One-dayrecess.
One-dayrecess.
6gthAdjournment SineDie.
RonaldD.ouchi
President oftheSenate
i2:L0/23
DateL11.*I3
DateLEG.DAY
Is
One-dayrecess.DATE
Jan.17(Wed)
Jan.l9(Fri)
Jan.22nd(Mon)
Jan.23d(Tue)
Jan.24th(Wed)
Jan.2S(Thur)
Feb.22nd(Thur)through
Feb.28h.(Wed)
March1st(Fri)
March4th(Mon)
March6th(Wed)
March71h(Thur)
March8th(Fri)
Marchllth(Mon)
March13th(Wed)
April4(Thur)
April5’(Fri)
April8th(Mon(
April10th(Wed)
Aprilli(Thur)
Aprillgth(Fri)
April22(Mon)
April24(Wed)
April25th(Thur)
April26th(Fri)
April2gth(Mon)
April301h(Tues)
May2(Thurs)
May3(Fri)
ScottK.Saiki
Speaker oftheHouse
2.024Legislative Timetable (Narrative) Dec20 B
