Source URL: https://jobs.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Careers Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawai'i Careers Search this site Search button Home State Careers Upcoming Events Career Pathways Resources About Us DHRD Home JOIN THE STATE OF HAWAI’I TEAM Explore Careers Why Apply To The State of Hawai’i Competitive Paid Time Off & Holidays Comprehensive Health & Benefits Unique Retirement Plans Incentives & Rewards Promotional & Transfer Opportunities Social Security Coverage Professional Development & Certification Transport & Transportation Compensation MOST COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION PACKAGE: The State of Hawai‘i is one of the largest employers and offers a competitive compensation package. In addition to salary, which is an important part of the compensation package, an employee is eligible for a broad range of valuable benefits, such as comprehensive health care insurance, life insurance, retirement programs, sick leave, vacation leave and paid holidays. Read More > Our Mission Our goal is to recruit and retain “the best and the brightest” employees, so that the State government can deliver efficient and effective services to the public. Diversity We honor diversity in our work force through inclusiveness and respect for the different patrons in our team. Excellence We strive for excellence in order to serve our community better and reflect our commitment. Integrity We show integrity in all that we do. Being respectful, transparent, and thoughtful are important values to us. TeamWork Our team is our family and we value input, collaboration, and achieving results together! Meet Our Team Members Website-Engineer1 "There are great fellow Engineers and team members hereat the State of Hawai'i DLNR. I also enjoy travelling to the different islands for our projects. And, the work environment and benefits are exceptional." "There are great fellow Engineers and team members here at the State of Hawai'i DLNR. I also enjoy travelling to the different islands for our projects. And, the work environment and benefits are exceptional." Engineer – Melissa Engineer – Melissa Engineer – Melissa Website-Fire "Being able to help people, save lives and work together as a team makes this the best job in the word!" "Being able to help people, save lives and work together as a team makes this the best job in the word!" "Being able to help people, save lives and work together as a team makes this the best job in the word!" Crash Fire Fighter – Aulii Crash Fire Fighter – Aulii Crash Fire Fighter – Aulii Website-ACO The State provides many career choices and opportunities to advance in your chosen field. The State also provides good benefits and job security! Adult Correctional Officers - Juliana & Chris Adult Correctional Officers - Juliana & Chris Adult Correctional Officers - Juliana & Chris Website-Nurse1 "Hawai'i State Hospital provides me the opportunity to serve my community and people through their toughest times with a team I consider family." "Hawai'i State Hospital provides me the opportunity to serve my community and people through their toughest times with a team I consider family." Nurse– Kyle Nurse– Kyle Nurse– Kyle Website-Sheriff22 "I chose to work for the State of Hawai'i because of the great benefits we receive as employees. When I applied to the Sheriff Division, it was like I was fulfilling my childhood dream. Since I was little, I was always the one to help others, and this was a perfect way for me to help out my community." "I chose to work for the State of Hawai'i because of the great benefits we receive as employees. When I applied to the Sheriff Division, it was like I was fulfilling my childhood dream. Since I was little, I was always the one to help others, and this was a perfect way for me to help out my community." Sheriff - Erica Sheriff - Erica Sheriff - Erica Website-Sheriff1 "Employment with the State of Hawai'i continues to inspire a refined degree of professionalism, upon myself, which I will carry on in my years of duty. In addition,the State of Hawai'i offers access to training and resources, enabling myself with immediate skills to produce immediate results. This place cultivates career growth through integrity, diligence, and persistency." Sheriff – Frederic Sheriff – Frederic Sheriff – Frederic Website-ProjectManager1 "I have the privilege to advocate for public access to the arts on behalf of my community. I take pride knowing that the work I do helps perpetuate Native Hawai'ian culture and all forms of creative expression from across the Pacific." Project Manger – Kamakani Project Manger – Kamakani Project Manger – Kamakani Website-Construction1 "At the time I applied with the State of Hawai‘i I was recently married and wanted a job that provided security. I have been working for the State of Hawai‘i for 37 years." "At the time I applied with the State of Hawai‘i I was recently married and wanted a job that provided security. I have been working for the State of Hawai‘i for 37 years." Construction – Ron Construction – Ron Construction – Ron Website-Office1 "Though the work may get hard, I return home with a strong sense of fulfillment, understanding someone else’s life may be improved by my little effort." Office Assistant – Toni Office Assistant – Toni Office Assistant – Toni Website-Janitor1 I like working for the State of Hawai'i because of the great benefits, pay, and friends! Janitor – Zanidia LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram The State of Hawai'i is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Explore Careers Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Interact Site Map Other Information Contact Us FAQs User Guide Powered by eHawai'i.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawai'i. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
