Source URL: https://primeguard.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Insurance | PrimeGuard Insurance Co; First Assured Warranty Corp; 1SourceAutoWarranty Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer 廣東話 Chuukese Français Deutsch ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 国语 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog Tongan ภาษาไทย Tiếng Việt Visayan x 你需要其他語言嘅幫助啊？ 如果您想請求更多信息或幫助，請致電（808）586-7314. Ka osupwangen álillis lón pwal eú fós? Ika ke mochen tungor pwan ekkoch porous ika aninis, kokori (808) 586-7314. Avez-vous besoin d'aide dans une autre langue ? Si vous souhaitez obtenir des informations supplémentaires ou une assistance, appelez le (808) 586-7314. Benötigen Sie Hilfe in einer anderen Sprache? Wenn Sie weitere Informationen oder Hilfe benötigen, rufen Sie (808) 586-7314 an. Pono ʻoe i ke kōkua ma ka ʻōlelo ʻē aʻe? Inā makemake ʻoe e noi i ka ʻike hou a i ʻole ke kōkua, e kelepona iā (808) 586-7314. Kasapulan kadi ti tulong iti sabali a pagsasao? No kayatyo ti agkiddaw iti kanayonan nga impormasion wenno tulong, tawaganyo ti (808) 586-7314. 別の言語でのサポートが必要ですか? さらに詳しい情報やサポートが必要な場合は、(808) 586-7314 までお電話ください。 다른 언어로 도움이 필요하세요? 추가 정보나 지원을 요청하려면 (808) 586-7314로 전화하세요. 您需要其他语言的帮助吗？如果您想请求更多信息或帮助，请致电 (808) 586-7314. Kwoj aikuj ke jibañ ilo bar juon kajin? Elañe kwoj kōnaan kajitok bar melele ak jibañ, call (808) 586-7314. E te mana'omia se fesoasoani i se isi gagana? Afai e te mana'o e talosagaina nisi fa'amatalaga po'o se fesoasoani, vala'au (808) 586-7314. ¿Necesita ayuda en otro idioma? Si desea solicitar más información o asistencia, llame al (808) 586-7314. Kailangan mo ba ng tulong sa ibang wika? Kung gusto mong humiling ng karagdagang impormasyon o tulong, tumawag sa (808) 586-7314. ʻOkú ke fie maʻu ha tokoni ʻi ha lea kehe? Kapau 'oku ke fie kole ha toe fakamatala pe tokoni, ta ki he (808) 586-7314. คุณต้องการความช่วยเหลือในภาษาอื่นหรือไม่? หากต้องการขอข้อมูลเพิ่มเติมหรือความช่วยเหลือ โปรดโทร (808) 586-7314 Bạn có cần trợ giúp bằng ngôn ngữ khác không? Nếu bạn muốn yêu cầu thêm thông tin hoặc hỗ trợ, hãy gọi (808) 586-7314. Nagkinahanglan ka ba og tabang sa laing pinulongan? Kung gusto nimo mangayo ug dugang nga impormasyon o tabang, tawag sa (808) 586-7314. Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs Insurance Search this site Search X icon Facebook icon Youtube icon Home About Us News Releases Commissioner’s Memorandum Reports HRS HAR FAQs Contact DCCA Home Home » Insurance Division Actions » PrimeGuard Insurance Co; First Assured Warranty Corp; 1SourceAutoWarranty PrimeGuard Insurance Co; First Assured Warranty Corp; 1SourceAutoWarranty Aloha…. You have reached the State of Hawaii Insurance Division’s informational website for inquires relating to PrimeGuard Insurance Company and its affiliated companies, 1SourceAutoWarranty, First Assured Warranty Corporation and WarranteeWise, Inc. This site contains general information about these companies, as well as, status of Insurance Division actions and information intended to assist affected consumers and constituents in resolving their respective inquiries. This site will be updated as more information becomes available. Current Status March 12, 2014 On February 27, 2014, the Liquidation Court granted the Liquidator’s Motion for Approval of Final Distribution which granted the Liquidator the authority to distribute the remaining assets of the PrimeGuard Liquidation Estate. On March 10, 2014, the Liquidator received the signed Order Granting Liquidator’s Motion for: (1) Approval to Amend Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims; and (2) Approval of Final Distribution. A copy of this order can be found below. The Liquidator has now begun the process of making distributions to the class 2 claimants. However, because this is the largest claimant group ever handled, comprised of approximately 7,400 total claimants, there will inevitably be hurdles in locating claimants, issuing checks, and dealing with the USPS. Therefore, while the original mailing should be completed in the next few weeks, it may take months for some claimants to receive their checks. Due to insufficient funds to fully compensate class 2 claimants, this will be the final distribution of PrimeGuard assets. No other classes will receive payments. Order Granting Liquidators Motion for Final Distribution January 20, 2014 On May 20th or 21st of 2013, all Class 2 claimants were mailed a Notice of Liquidator’s Motion for Approval of Final Distribution. The Notice of Liquidator’s Motion for Approval of Final Distribution informed all Class 2 Claimants of their claim value and anticipated payout based on the current funds of the PrimeGuard estate. The Liquidator has now filed the Motion for Final Distribution seeking Liquidation Court approval to make a distribution to all Class 2 Claimants. A copy of this motion can be found below. The hearing date has been set for February 27, 2014 at 9:30 am. If the Motion for Final Distribution is granted by the Court, the Liquidator will begin issuing checks immediately. Such checks will be mailed via First Class Mail. This will serve as the final distribution of PrimeGuard assets. Any claimants with questions relating to the PrimeGuard liquidation should contact the PrimeGuard estate using the updated contact information below: E-Mail: [email protected] Telephone: (800) 860-3843 Facsimile: (808) 536-7349 Mail: PrimeGuard Insurance Co. – In Liquidation P.O. Box 1350 Honolulu, HI 96807 Liquidator’s Motion for Approval January 30, 2013 At this time, the Liquidator is currently awaiting final determination of a tax assessment from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). In December 2012, the Liquidator was notified by the IRS of an initial positive result in the Liquidator’s appeal of a tax assessment levied by the IRS. However, the Liquidator has yet to receive a final determination resolving this issue. When the final determination is received, the Liquidator intends to file its Motion for Final Distribution soon thereafter. The Liquidator cannot provide a precise date as to when a final distribution will occur, as a final determination by the IRS is needed in order to ensure that each claimant receives the most compensation possible. Once this tax issue is resolved, the Liquidator will seek the approval of the Liquidation Court with respect to the amount to be paid to each claimant. Prior to approval by the Liquidation Court, a letter will be sent via first class mail stating the exact amount that will be paid on your claim. The letter will advise you when a motion for court approval of the final distribution will be filed with the Court. Once final court approval has been received, the checks will be prepared and mailed via First Class Mail. Due to the necessity of Liquidation Court approval for numerous procedural steps the Liquidator cannot distribute funds to claimants until full court approvals have been obtained. At the present time the Liquidator expects to resolve the IRS issue and complete a final distribution by the end of the third quarter of 2013. May 23, 2012 The Hawai`i Li quidation Court has, at this time, approved all of the Liquidator’s agreements with states holding statutory deposits.The Liquidator is, therefore, presently in the final process of collecting all remaining estate assets for distribution. The Notice of Distribution sent to you in August 2009 stated which payment class you were a part of. Generally, former contract holders who filed a claim on time belong to Class 2. The Liquidator anticipates making the final distribution payments to all Class 2 Claimants as soon as possible but due to the procedural requirements set forth by Hawai`i law, the distribution is not likely to occur prior to the fourth quarter of 2012. The Liquidator cannot provide a specific date as to when a final distribution will occur because the approval of the Liquidation Court is needed with respect to the claims that will be paid and the amount of each claim. Prior to payments being distributed to claimants, a letter will be sent via first class mail stating the exact amount of that will be paid on your claim. The letter will advise you when a motion for court approval of the final distribution will be filed with the Court. Once final court approval has been received, the checks will be prepared and mailed via First Class Mail. July 19, 2011 Order Granting Liquidator’s Motion for Order Approving Liquidator’s Agreement with the Insurance Commissioner of Wisconsin. Wisconsin Order June 30, 2011 Order Granting Liquidator’s Motion for Order Approving Liquidator’s Agreement with the Virginia department of Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner. Order Granting Virginia Agreement June 27, 2011 Pending Court approval, the Liquidator anticipates making the final distribution payments to all Class 2 claimants in 2011. The Notice of Determination sent to claimants in August 2009 stated which payment class claimants were a part of. In general, former contract holders who timely filed claims were considered to be a part of Class 2. At this time, the Liquidator cannot give any assurances regarding the exact time when distributions will be made, or what amounts will be distributed. Court approval will need to be obtained before distributions can be made. When the Liquidator is ready to make payments, the Liquidator will send claimants letters via first class mail stating the exact amounts of each distribution. The letters will also serve as notice that the Liquidator will be filing a motion with the Court to obtain approval to make the final distribution. Upon receiving the required Court approval to make the payments, the checks will be prepared and mailed via first class mail as soon as possible. May 2010: On JULY 1, 2010 at 9:30am, the Liquidation Court will hold a hearing on claimants’ objections to the Notices of Determination. Those claimants who filed an objection with the Liquidator will receive a copy of this Notice of Hearing via First Class Mail around June 1. As it states in the Notice of Hearing, objections and supporting evidence must be submitted to the Court with a copy to the Liquidator’s counsel not less than 8 days before the hearing date. The Court also granted the Liquidator’s motion for approval of recommendations regarding claims for which there is no outstanding objection. This is the Court’s approval of the “Approved and Admitted Amount” shown on the Notice of Determination for all Class 2 claimants. This Order also established the priority, but not the amount, of claims below class 2. Please keep in mind that the fact that the Court approved the “Approved and Admitted Amount” does not, by itself, mean that you will receive the “Approved and Admitted Amount” shown on your Notice of Determination. The Liquidator cannot give any assurances respecting whether or when a distribution will be made, or what amounts will be distributed. Additional Court approval will need to be received before distributions can be made. Copies of the documents can be found by clicking on the link below. Notice of Hearing Order Granting Liquidator’s Motion for Approval Liquidator’s Motion for Approval February2009: We are currently still in the process of reconciling the claims information received. The Liquidator will issue a Notice of Determination when the Liquidator has gathered all sufficient information necessary. Thursday, July 17, 2008: The Liquidation Court approved the addition of First Assured Warranty Corporation and its affiliated companies (Warrantee Wise, Inc. and 1sourceautowarranty.com, Inc.) to the liquidation proceedings of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc. A copy of the “Supplemental Order of Liquidation” can be found by clicking on the link below. Supplemental Order of Liquidation Please refer to the prior posting below for more information about the status of the liquidation proceedings, including the issues that still need to be resolved. Monday, June 30, 2008: The Federal bankruptcy proceeding of the First Assured Warranty Corporation (“First Assured”) and its affiliated companies (Warrantee Wise, Inc. and 1SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc.) was finally dismissed by the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Colorado on June 4, 2008. Up until that time, the Federal bankruptcy proceeding prohibited the orderly and efficient liquidtion of PrimeGuard in the Hawaii liquidation court. However, now that the federal bankruptcy case has been dismissed, the Liquidator is awaiting approval from the Hawaii Liquidation Court to include First Assured and its affiliates in the PrimeGuard liquidation proceeding in Hawaii. The Hawaii liquidation court is currently scheduled to hold a hearing on July 7, 2008 on this matter. Assuming the Liquidation Court grants the Liquidator’s pending Motion, a distribution of funds may not likely beforthcoming in the near future. Among the many things that must still be resolved are the following: (1) the Liquidator must reconcile the claims that have been filed to date in both the Liquidation and Bankruptcy proceedings; (2) the Liquidator must issue a notice of determination as to the amounts approved (this may not be the amount that will be finally distributed but is only representative of what the Liquidator determines to be valid claims); (3) if there are any objections to the Liquidator’s determination, then hearings must be held by the Liquidation Court to resolve those objections; (4) the Liquidator must resolve claims and issues involving special deposits with various state insurance regulators; and (5) the Liquidator must obtain the Liquidation Court’s approval of any proposed Plan of Distribution. In addition to the foregoing, the Liquidator is currently pursuing claims against other individual(s) and entities. These claims may take months to years to be finally resolved. The Liquidator appreciates the patience of those interested in PrimeGuard and understands their interests in being provided updates on the status of pending proceedings. With that in mind, the Liquidator will continue to provide periodic updates as pertinent developments occur. For those interested in the formal legal filings and proceedings, the following is a recap of the recent motions and actions: 3/18/08: Order Granting in Part Liquidator’s Petition for Final Order and Judgment Approving Liquidator’s Settlement with Shareholder’s Family and Affiliates and Petition for Good Faith Determination of Settlement Order Granting Partial Approval of Liquidators Petition 4/1/08: Order Granting Petition for Good Faith Determination of Settlement as to All Parties Order Granting Good Faith Determination of Settlement 4/1/08: Final Judgment (Re: Order Granting in part Liquidator’s Petition for Final Order and Judgment Approving Liquidator’s Settlement with Shareholder’s Family and Affiliates and Petition for Good Faith Determination of Settlement, filed March 18, 2008 Final Judgment 4/10/08: Final Judgment (Re: Order Granting Petition for Good Faith Determination of Settlement as to All Parties, filed April 1, 2008) Final Judgment All Parties 5/22/08: Liquidator’s Motion for Leave to Add First Assured Warranty Corporation, 1SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise Inc. as Respondents; Memorandum in Support of Motion; Declaration of Lanson K. Kupau Exhibits “A” – “C”; Notice of Hearing and Certificate of Service; Proposed Supplemental Order of Liquidation Motion to Add FAWC et al to Liquidation 6/4/08: Notice of Entry of order of Dismissal in Bankruptcy Matter; Exhibit “A”; Certificate of Service Notice of Entry of Dismissal General Information PrimeGuard Insurance Co., Inc., was licensed by the State of Hawaii Insurance Division to provide insurance coverage to First Assured Warranty Corporation (“First Assured”), 1SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. (“1Source”), and WarranteeWise, Inc. (“WaranteeWise”), for their respective obligations arising from automobile service contracts and extended warranties that they sold and issued to consumers and automobile dealers for cars, motorcycles and other vehicles. On Monday, December 19, 2005, the Court of the State of Hawaii issued an Order of Liquidation of PrimeGuard. The Order enjoined and restrained PrimeGuard from the transacting of further business. Respondent PrimeGuard was prohibitedfrom insuring any warranties issued by First Assured, 1Source or any other warranty company dated after the entry of Liquidation Order. First Assured, 1Source and any other warranty company were also enjoined from issuing any warranties that identified Respondent PrimeGuard as an insurer of such warranties. To the extent any such warranties were issued after the date of the Liquidation Order, to the extent those warranties identified Respondent PrimeGuard as an insurer, those warranties were deemed void and unenforceable as to Respondent PrimeGuard. Contact Information Telephone inquiries: (800) 860-3843 (toll free) or (808) 536-7334 Facsimile transmission: (808) 586-7349 Email: [email protected] Mailing address: PrimeGuard Insurance Co. – In Liquidation C/O State of Hawaii DCCA – Insurance Division P.O. Box 3614 Honolulu, HI 96811 Previously Posted Information Insurance Quick Links Consumers Additional Resources for Consumers Commissioner’s Memorandum Insurers Insurance Data Security Law Rate Schedule Hearing Insurance Agents & Agencies Continuing Education Insurance Licensing Forms Renew Insurance License Insurance Fraud Insurance License Search Captive Insurance Other Insurance Insurance Division Actions Job Opportunities About Us Contact Us Site Map Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact 808-586-2790 Contact Email Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://cca.hawaii.gov/ins/files/2014/01/PG-Motion-For-Website-2.pdf) ---
1160347 
KOBAYASHI SUGIT A & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 9404-0 
First Hawaiian Center 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813 
Telephone No.: (808) 535-5700 
Attorneys for the Liquidator i1S!:CIRCUffCOUR~ 
STATE f!F H.t-WMH" 
FILED 
2Il14 JAN I 7 At1 11: 34 
S. TAMANAHA 
CLERK 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP., 
Respondent. ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 RAN 
) (Special Proceeding) 
) 
) 
) LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR: (1) 
) APPROVAL TO AMEND 
) RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FILED 
) CLAIMS; AND (2) APPROVAL OF FINAL 
) DISTRIBUTION; MEMORANDUM IN 
) SUPPORT OF MOTION; DECLARATION OF 
) PAULS.K. YUEN; DECLARATION OF 
) ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU; EXHIBITS "A"­
) "I"; NOTICE OF HEARING AND 
) CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
) 
~ :~INGl Q,6-~ 1 '1 ,~u jL4 
) Time: q; 3DAta1 ) Judge: Hon. Rhonda Nishimura 
) 
) No Trial Date Set 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR: (1) APPROVAL TO AMEND RECOMMENDATIONS 
REGARDING FILED CLAIMS; AND (2) APPROVAL OF FINAL DISTRIBUTION 
Petitioner Gordon I. Ito, in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, 
Inc. ("PrimeGuard), by and through his attorneys, Kobayashi, Sugita & Goda, hereby moves this Court pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat. Chapter 431, Article 15 for an Order providing for: ( 1) 
approval to amend the Liquidator's recommendations regarding filed claims; and (2) approval of 
the Final Distribution of assets in this liquidation proceeding as proposed herein. 
This Motion is made pursuant to Rule 7 of the Hawaii Rules of Civil Procedure and Haw. 
Rev. Stat. Chapter 431, Article 15 and is supported by the Memorandum in Support of Motion, 
the Declarations and Exhibits attached hereto, and the records and files herein. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, January 16, 2014. 
2 KOBAYASHI SUGITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 
Attorneys for the Liquidator JN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HA WAIT 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMP ANY, 
JNC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP., 
Respondent. ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM 
) (Special Proceeding) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
MEMORANDUM JN SUPPORT OF MOTION 
I. INTRODUCTION 
1. Respondent PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., ("PrimeGuard") is a Hawaii 
domiciled insurance company organized as a Risk Retention Group. Although domiciled in 
Hawaii, PrimeGuard's offices were shared with the offices of affiliates First Assured Warranty 
Company, Inc., lSourceAuto Warranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. (collectively 
"FAWC" or "Affiliates") located in Colorado. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
2. J.P. Schmidt, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner for the State of Hawaii 
(the "Commissioner") initiated formal proceedings against PrimeGuard in this Court. On 
November 14, 2005, this Court entered a Seizure Order regarding PrimeGuard. Thereafter, on 
December 19, 2005, the Court placed PrimeGuard under an Order of Liquidation with a finding 
of insolvency and appointed the Commissioner as Liquidator (hereinafter the "Liquidator"). See 
Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
3. In May of 2006, a Proof of Claim ("POC") master claim list was compiled by 
using the computer systems of PrimeGuard and Affiliates which contained the most up to date 
names and addresses of warranty holders, dealers and agents of PrimeGuard and its Affiliates 
according to FAWC employees at the time of mailing. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
4. On May 18, 2006 these POC notices were prepared and sent out from the FAWC 
offices in Colorado. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 5. On May 23, 2006, the Liquidator filed a Motion for Leave to Add First Assured 
Warranty Corporation and lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. as Respondents (the "Consolidation 
Motion") in this Proceeding to which First Assured objected. A hearing on the Liquidator's 
Consolidation Motion was scheduled on June 19, 2006. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
6. While the motion to add the affiliates was pending, on June 6, 2006, this Court 
entered an Order Granting Liquidator's Motion for Approval of Notice, Service and Claim 
Submittal Procedures and Claim Response Deadline Filed May 4, 2006 (the "Claims Submittal 
Order"). The Claims Submittal Order applied to known creditors of PrimeGuard, First Assured, 
and their affiliates. It approved the issuance of a Notice of Liquidation Order and a Claim 
Response Form, and set a Claim Response Deadline of November 30, 2006. The Claims 
Submittal Order also specifically provided that "any claims received by the Liquidator after the 
stated Deadline, with the exception of those provided for in the Liquidation Act, shall be and is 
forever barred from receiving a 
distribution from the PrimeGuard Estate." Claim Submittal 
Order, p. 2, <J[ 3, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "A". 
7. On June 16, 2006, FAWC filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11, 
Title 11, United States Code, in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Colorado 
(the "Bankruptcy Court"), Case No 06-13669 MER (the "Bankruptcy Case"). See Declaration of 
Paul S.K. Yuen. 
8. During the pendency of the Appeal, FAWC and the Liquidator, as well as other 
parties, entered into a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases (the "Settlement Agreement") 
in order to resolve the pending litigation. The Settlement Agreement provided in pertinent part: 
a) FA WC would cease prosecution of its Plan of Reorganization and 
Disclosure Statement and seek dismissal of the Bankruptcy Case; 
b) All properties of FA WC's bankruptcy estate, including any and all assets 
of any type in which FAWC had, asserted, or might assert an ownership 
interest would be under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of this Court 
and that this Court would have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over all of 
FAWC's property which would be administered and liquidated as part of 
the Liquidation Proceeding; and 
c) Most, if not all, claims would be addressed and administered in the 
Liquidation Proceeding. 
See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
2 9. On May 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court dismissed the Bankruptcy Case and on 
June 4, 2008, the Appeal was dismissed. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
10. On May 22, 2008, the Liquidator filed his Motion for Leave to Add First Assured 
Warranty Corporation, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise, Inc. as 
Respondents and Placing Them Under a Supplemental Order of Liquidation (the "Motion for 
Leave"). No opposition was filed to the Motion for Leave and on July 17, 2008, this Court 
entered a Supplemental Order of Liquidation which effectively added FAWC as Respondents to 
the Liquidation Proceeding. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
11. As part of the Settlement Agreement entered into between FA WC and the 
Liquidator, the parties agreed that all claims that had been filed in the Bankruptcy Case would be 
administered in the Liquidation Proceeding. Specifically, the parties agreed that subject to the 
Liquidation Court's approval of the Settlement Agreement: (i) all FAWC creditors with claims 
arising under vehicle service contracts and who have filed a proof of claim in the Bankruptcy 
Case ("VSC Claims," individually referred to as a "VSC Claim"), regardless of whether such 
VSC Claims have been filed in the PrimeGuard Liquidation, shall be treated as if such VSC 
Claims were timely filed on an appropriate proof of claim form in the PrimeGuard Liquidation; 
and (ii) the Liquidator shall treat all such VSC Claims the same as similarly situated claims 
timely filed with the Liquidator or in the PrimeGuard Liquidation on proper forms. See 
Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
12. The Settlement Agreement also provided for the administration of any "Allowed 
Unsecured Trade Creditors," "Secured Claims" and "Tax Claims" as defined in the Settlement 
Agreement. Essentially, the Settlement Agreement provided that with the exception of Tax 
Claims, all other claims not administered in the Bankruptcy Case would be addressed and 
administered in this Liquidation Proceeding. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
13. On May 5, 2010, this court issued the Order Granting Liquidator's Motion for 
Approval of Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims, which set the class and amount of each 
Class 2 claim made against the PrimeGuard Liquidation estate and is attached for the Court's 
convenience as Exhibit "B". 
14. Between November 2010 and October 2011, the Liquidator negotiated with the 
Insurance Commissioners of Wisconsin, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Virginia, and Arizona to obtain 
agreements for the release of PrimeGuard' s statutory deposits held in these states. One condition 
3 of these agreements, which were approved by this Court, was that the statutory deposits were 
only to be used to pay claimants from their respective states. Attached for the Court's 
convenience as Exhibits "C"-""G" are the state agreements. 
15. On May 20 and 21, 2013, Liquidator provided due and proper notice of his 
application for approval of this Final Distribution to all Class 2 claimants in accordance with this 
Court's Order Granting Liquidator's Motion for Approval of Use of First Class Mail Regarding 
Notice of Motion for Approval of Final Distribution filed herein on March 8, 2011. Attached as 
Exhibit "H" is the notice form approved by this Court. 
16. On May 24, 2013, this Court issued an Order Granting Liquidator's Motion for 
Approval of Supplemental Recommendations regarding filed claims, adding eight claimants as 
Class 2 claimants in the Liquidation. These new claimants received their statutory notice on the 
same days as all other claimants, May 20 and 21, 2013. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
17. As the Liquidator was preparing his Motion for Approval of Final Distribution, 
the Liquidator noticed that 4 claimants with identical names had identical claim amounts. Upon 
further investigation, the Liquidator determined that four claimants had an incorrect value 
assigned to their claims. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
18. Similarly, while reviewing the master claim list and Liquidator's 
recommendations, the Liquidator discovered that 63 claimants who had paid for their 
PrimeGuard policies using a third-party financing company, MEPCO, had claims against the 
PrimeGuard Estate. These 63 claimants properly filed their proof of claim forms before the 
deadline. However, when the Liquidator was making his original recommendations, he had not 
yet received MEPCO's files and records. Accordingly, these claimants were not listed in 
PrimeGuard or FAWC's records and their claims were adjusted by the Liquidator to zero. The 
Liquidator has since reviewed the MEPCO documents and records, and has assigned these 63 
Class 2 claims their appropriate value. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
19. The Liquidator has determined it is in the best interest of the Liquidation to 
amend these 6?1 Class 2 claims to reflect their rightful claim against the Liquidation Estate. See 
Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
20. The Liquidator has further found that because the Liquidator is now confident that 
all claimants are receiving their rightful compensation from the Liquidation estate, it is in the 
1 The 4 identical name claimants combined with the 63 MEPCO claimants. 
4 best interest of the Liquidation to make a final distribution at this time. In fact, the Liquidator 
has determined that not making a final distribution at this time would serve to unnecessarily 
delay the receipt of compensation by the claimants and burden the Liquidation with further 
needless expense. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
21. The PrimeGuard Estate currently has $4,363,415.40 in its accounts. The 
Liquidator, after reviewing each claim and the Liquidator's recommendations to confirm its 
value, plans to disburse $4,354,673.41 to the Class 2 claimants, paying at least 72.05% of each 
claim (claimants from states with statutory deposits will receive a greater percentage). The 
Liquidator will hold $8,741.99 in its reserve accounts to cover the final costs of wrapping up the 
Liquidation Estate. See Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
22. PrimeGuard does not have enough funds to fully compensate all of the Class 2 
claimants, therefore subsequent classes will not be receiving distributions. See Declaration of 
Paul S.K. Yuen. 
23. As such, the Liquidator now seeks an order approving the amended Final Claim 
Report with filed claim amounts and adjusted claim amounts attached hereto as Exhibit 'T'2, and 
granting the Liquidator the authority to make a final distribution to the Class 2 claimants. See 
Declaration of Paul S.K. Yuen. 
II. DISCUSSION 
A. Pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat.§ 431:15-333, the Liquidator's 
Recommendations Should Be Amended to Reflect the True Value of All 
Class 2 Claims 
1. The Liquidator Has a Duty to Further Investigate Claim Amounts as 
Necessary 
Section 431:15-333, Haw. Rev. Stat., grants the Liquidator the authority to compromise 
and negotiate the amount of claims made by liquidation claimants and report such claims against 
the insolvent insurer along with the Liquidator's recommendations to this Court. This process 
requires the Liquidator to submit his recommendations once the claims process is complete. 
Accordingly, on May 5, 2010, this Court issued the Order Granting Liquidator's Motion for 
2 Exhibit "I" is filed under seal pursuant to the Order Granting Ex Parte Motion to File Creditor List Under Seal filed 
on September 6, 2006. 
5 Approval of Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims, which set the class and amount of each 
Class 2 claim made against the PrimeGuard Liquidation estate. 
Then, on May 24, 2013, this Court issued an Order Granting Liquidator's Motion for 
Approval of Supplemental Recommendations regarding filed claims, adding eight claimants as 
Class 2 claimants in the Liquidation. Using the claimant list and recommendations approved on 
May 24, 2013, the Liquidator began preparations to make a final distribution to all Class 2 
claimants. While reviewing the claimant list, the Liquidator noticed that 4 claimants with 
identical names had identical claim amounts. Believing that this could not be merely a 
coincidence and pursuant to his ongoing duty under Haw. Rev. Stat.§ 431:15-333 to "review all 
claims duly filed in the liquidation and ... make such fmther investigation as the liquidator shall 
deem necessary[,]" the Liquidator reviewed the files and records of the Liquidation Estate and 
determined that these claim amounts were incorrect. 
Further, while double checking the adjusted claim amounts to be paid with the most up to 
date records of PrimeGuard and its Affiliates, the Liquidator discovered that 63 claimants who 
had paid for their PrimeGuard policies using a third-party financing company, MEPCO, had 
claims against the PrimeGuard Estate. These 63 claimants properly filed their proof of claim 
forms before the deadline. However, at the time the Liquidator was making his original 
recommendations, he unknowingly had not yet received the MEPCO database. Accordingly, 
these claimants were not listed in the PrimeGuard records and their claims were adjusted to zero. 
The Liquidator then provided notice of the zero value assigned to these claims and followed the 
disputed claim procedure set forth in Haw. Rev. Stat. §431:15-329, for any of claimants 
objecting to this zero value. However, upon further investigation and using a database that was 
received after the Liquidator's consultants provided their original recommendations, the 
Liquidator in now able to determine the appropriate claim amounts for these 63 Class 2 
claimants, who had timely submitted their proof of claim forms. 
2. Equity Requires that 67 Claimants' Claim Amounts Be Amended to 
Reflect Their Actual Value Pursuant to the Records of Primeguard 
and its Affiliates 
The Liquidator's investigation discovered that these 67 claimants'3 adjusted claim 
amounts were indeed incorrect, and they were actually entitled to receive a claim amount 
3 The 4 claimants with the same names as other claimants and the 63 MEPCO claimants. 
6 different than what was contained in the recommendations made by the Liquidator and approved 
by this Court. Accordingly, while the previous claim amounts were approved pursuant to the 
process outlined in Article 15 of the Insurance Code, the Liquidator has determined that equity 
now requires these claimants to receive the appropriate claim amount according the records of 
PrimeGuard and its Affiliates. 
Therefore, as the Liquidator is required to "present to the court a report of the claims 
against the insurer with the liquidator's recommendations[,]" the Liquidator now presents the 
Court with the final claimant list and recommended adjustments. Haw. Rev. Stat.§ 431:15-333. 
A list of the 67 claimants who require changes to their recommended adjusted claim amount is 
attached as Exhibit "J", and filed under seal pursuant to the Order Granting Ex Parte Motion to 
File Creditor List Under Seal filed on September 6, 2006. Further, Exhibit "J" contains the new 
adjusted recommended claim amount for these claimants. These changes are reflected in the 
complete Final Claim Report with filed claim amounts and adjusted claim amounts attached 
hereto as Exhibit "I", and filed under seal pursuant to the Order Granting Ex Parte Motion to File 
Creditor List Under Seal filed on September 6, 2006. 
As Exhibit "J" demonstrates, all 67 Class 2 claims affected by this amendment will 
receive in an increase in the value assigned to such claim. In other words, all 67 claimants 
affected will be receiving a larger distribution from Liquidation Estate than previously expected. 
3. In Order to Efficiently and Effectively Liquidate Primeguard, this 
Court Should Approve the Liquidator's Amended Recommendations 
After the Liquidator's recommendation is filed, Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-333(b) grants 
this Court discretion to approve, disapprove or modify the Liquidator's recommendations. 
However, if the Court takes no action on the Liquidator's recommendations for a period of sixty 
(60) days following his submittal, then the Liquidator's recommendations, shall be deemed 
allowed. Id. 
The impact on the other Class 2 claimants will be minimal. Because there are currently 
over 7,100 Class 2 claimants, a small increase to these 67 claimants' claims will have a nominal 
effect on the other Class 2 claimants. In fact, the Liquidator has enough funds in its reserve 
accounts to cover these increases to the 67 claimants, which will allow the Liquidator to pay the 
same percentage as previously calculated to all claimants. Further, because there will not be 
7 enough assets to pay claimants beyond Class 2, the amendment of these 67 claims will have no 
effect on the other classes. 
4. The Liquidator Used the Same Process to Determine the Value of the 
Recommended Claim Amount for the 67 Amended Claims 
For the Class 2 claims, the Liquidator originally applied a methodology consistent with 
the warranty contract and the PrimeGuard Companies' prior practices to determine the 
recommended claim amount. The warranties were terminated consistent with this Court's order 
as of January 19, 2006. The duration of the contract was then converted to the number of days, 
identifying the number of days in-force along with the number of days remaining after 
termination. The premium was then pro-rated to arrive at a prorated refund amount. In those 
states where the law allows the amount of any claims to be subtracted from a prorated premium 
refund, the claims were accounted for. In the states where the law does not allow the claims to 
be subtracted, the amount of repairs was not applied to the pro rata refund amount. This is the 
same process the Liquidator has applied to these amended claims, thus ensuring that a consistent 
approach and calculation was utilized for all VSC claims, and no current Class 2 claimants will 
be prejudiced by the amended claims. Further, approving these amendments will allow the 
Liquidator to distribute funds to claimants in a timely manner. Accordingly, in order to 
efficiently and effectively liquidate Primeguard and its Affiliates, this Court should approve the 
Liquidator's 
recommendations and amend the 67 claims listed in Exhibit "J". 
B. This Court Should Approve the Liquidator's Final Distribution 
1. The Final Distribution Is Accordance With Haw. Rev. Stat. Chapter 
431Article15 
If this Court approves the Liquidator's complete Final Claim Report including the 67 
amended Class 2 claims, this Court should also authorize the Liquidator to make a final 
distribution to the Class 2 claimants. The claimants of PrimeGuard have been waiting years to 
receive compensation for their claims, and the Liquidator has now reviewed each claim amount 
and confirmed it using the records of PrimeGuard and its Affiliates. Therefore, in an effort to 
make distributions "in a manner that will assure the proper recognition of priorities and a 
reasonable balance between the expeditious completion of the liquidation and the protection of 
unliquidated and undetermined claims," the Liquidator has determined that it is in the best 
8 interest of both the Liquidation and the claimants to make a final distribution at this time. See 
Haw. Rev. Stat. §334(a). 
Haw Rev. Stat.§ 431:15-332 provides in pertinent part as follows: 
§ 431:15-332. Priority of distribution. 
The priority of distribution of claims from the insurer's estate 
shall be in accordance with the order in which each class of 
claims is herein set forth. Every claim in each class shall be paid 
in full or adequate funds retained for the payment before the 
members of the next class receive any payment. No subclasses 
shall be established within any class. The order of distribution of 
claims shall be: 
*** 
*** ( 1) Class 1. the costs and expenses of administration, 
including but not limited to the following: 
(A) The actual and necessary costs of preserving 
or recovering the assets of the insurer; 
(B) Compensation for all services rendered in 
the liquidation; 
(C) Any necessary filing fees; 
(D) The fees and mileage payable to witnesses; 
(E) Reasonable attorneys' fees; and 
(F) The reasonable expenses of a guaranty fund or 
association, or foreign guaranty association in 
handling claims. 
(2) Class 2. All claims under policies for losses 
incurred[.] 
(3) Class 3. Claims of the federal government. 
(4) Class 4. Debts due to employees for services 
performed[.] 
(5) Class 5. Claims of general creditors. 
9 *** (6) Class 6. Claims of any state or local government. 
(7) Class 7. Claims filed late or any other claims other 
than claims under paragraphs 8 and 9. 
(8) Class 8. Surplus or contribution notes, or similar 
obligations[.] 
(9) Class 9. The claims of shareholders or other owners. 
Haw Rev. Stat.§ 431:15-332 (emphasis added). 
The Liquidator hereby proposes that the Final Distribution of assets in this Liquidation be 
made as follows: (a) Class 2 claimants shall receive at least 72.05% of their claim (or 
approximately 72 cents on each Class 2 claim dollar) that had been admitted into the PrimeGuard 
Estate, totaling $4,354,673.41 (hereinafter "Final Distribution"); and (b) keep the specified 
reserve amount ($8,741.99) for the Class 1 claims representing the remaining costs and expenses 
of winding up the Liquidation Proceeding. Certain Class 2 claimants from states which required 
statutory deposits will receive a greater distribution based on the insurance laws in those states. 
Louisiana, Wisconsin, and Oklahoma will receive 100% of their claims due to the fact that the 
statutory deposit required to do business in .~ose states covered all of the claims arising from 
those states. Similarly, Class 2 claimants from Virginia will receive 77.2% of their claims based 
on the size of the Virginia statutory deposit. 
The Final Distribution sets forth a priority of distribution of assets that is in accordance 
with Haw. Rev. Stat.§ 431:15-332, and also allows the Liquidator to distribute the assets of 
PrimeGuard in a manner that will assure the proper recognition of priorities and a reasonable 
balance between the expeditious completion of the liquidation and the protection of unliquidated 
and undetermined claims, including third party claims, as required by Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-
334. 
2. Class 2 Claimants received the proper notice required under Article 15 
The Liquidator provided due and proper notice of his application for approval of this 
Final Distribution in accordance with this Court's Order Granting Liquidator's Motion for 
Approval of Use of First Class Mail Regarding Notice of Motion for Approval of Final 
10 Distribution filed herein on March 8, 2011. The Liquidator sent the approved notice form to all 
claimants either on May 20 or 21, 2013. 
Haw. Rev. Stat.,§ 431:15-324 requires that the Liquidator provide notice to the claimants 
and states: 
Notice of the application shall be given to the classes affected, the 
guaranty fund or association in, and to the commissioners of 
insurance of, each of the states. Any such notice shall be deemed to 
have been given when deposited in the United States certified mail, 
first class postage prepaid, at least thirty days prior to submission 
of the application to the court. Action on the application may be 
taken by the court provided the above required notice has been 
given and provided further that the liquidator's proposal complies 
with subsections (b)(l) and (2). 
Haw. Rev. Stat.§ 431:15-324(e). 
Therefore, section 324(e) imposes the following two requirements on the Liquidator: (1) 
provide notice of the application to the court for approval of a proposal to disburse assets out of 
marshaled assets to all affected classes, the guaranty fund/association, and the insurance 
commissioners of each of the states; and (2) provide said notice of application with at least thirty 
(30) days or more prior to submitting the application to the court. 
Accordingly, the notice provided to the claimants satisfies these requirements by stating 
that the Liquidator intended to file a Motion for Approval of Final Distribution with the 
Liquidation Comt, and provided the website where the claimants could view the present motion. 
In addition to this required information, the notice also provided further information, not 
required by the statute, including the value of the Class 2 claim for each claimant and the amount 
that each claimant would receive. While the 67 claimants whose claim values have been 
increased received a written notice which had an incorrect claim value, because Article 15 does 
not require that the notice contain the claim value, the notice still satisfied all requirements under 
Article 15 and remains valid. Further, for the 67 claimants whose claim values changed, the 
Liquidator has called each of these claimants attempting to provide them with notice of the 
increase in their claim value. 
Additionally, reissuing the notice to the 67 claimants with amended claim values would 
only serve to further delay distributions to the over 7 ,000 other claimants and increase the 
administrative costs associated with the liquidation. Due to the reserve accounts being used to 
11 cover the increase in claim values, any additional costs could reduce the amounts the Class 2 
claimants are entitled to receive. 
Therefore, because the May 20 and 21, 2013 notices are still valid under Article 15, and 
reissuing the 67 notices effected by the Liquidator's amended recommendations would result in 
unnecessary expense and delay, this Court should find that the May 20 and 21, 2013 notices 
satisfy the Article 15 notice requirements prior to distribution. As such, because these notices 
have been issued more than thirty days prior to the filing of this motion, the notice requirements 
are satisfied and this court should approve the Final Distribution. 
3. The Amounts to be Distributed 
The amounts to be to the Class 2 claimants (as well as those amounts to be held in reserve 
to pay for anticipated wind up matters) are as described in Exhibit "I." The Class 2 claimants 
will receive at least 72.05% of their final adjusted claim amount. The funds to be distributed to 
each Class 2 claimant shall be paid via United States first class mail at their last known address 
as indicated by the records of PrimeGuard in amounts as described in Exhibit "I". 
Any distribution made to a Class 2 claimant that is returned to the Liquidator because the 
claimant has since moved without leaving a forwarding address shall qualify such distribution as 
unclaimed funds pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431: 15-335. Said Class 2 claimants shall also 
qualify as unknown or cannot be found. Id. After all Class 1 Claims have been paid in full and 
at least 72.05% of Class 2 claims have been distributed, all remaining unclaimed funds in the 
possession of PrimeGuard will be immediately deposited with the Director of Finance, State of 
Hawaii, pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat.§ 431:15-335. 
Unfortunately, because there are insufficient assets to fully compensate all Class 2 
claimants, no other classes will receive a distribution. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons set forth herein, the Liquidator respectfully requests that the present 
Motion be granted. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, January 16, 2014. 
~~ 
WENDELL H. FUJI 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 
Attorneys for the Liquidator 
12 IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP., 
Respondent. ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM 
) (Special Proceeding) 
) 
) 
) DECLARATION OF SPECIAL DEPUTY 
) LIQUIDATOR PAUL S.K. YUEN 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
DECLARATION OF SPECIAL DEPUTY LIQUIDATOR PAUL S.K. YUEN 
I, PAUL S.K. YUEN, pursuant to Circuit Court Rule 7(g), declare as follows: 
1. I am the duly appointed Special Deputy Liquidator of PRIMEGUARD 
INSURANCE COMPANY, A RISK RETENTION GROUP ("PrimeGuard") in liquidation and 
hereby confirm that the statements contained in the present Motion are true and correct to the 
best of my knowledge and information. Declarant was appointed as special deputy liquidator by 
the Insurance Commissioner, in his capacity as Liquidator of Primeguard GMA. 
2. Respondent PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., ("PrimeGuard") is a Hawaii 
domiciled insurance company organized as a Risk Retention Group. Although domiciled in 
Hawaii, PrimeGuard's offices were shared with the offices of affiliates First Assured Warranty 
Company, Inc., lSourceAuto Warranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. (collectively 
"FA WC" or "Affiliates") located in Colorado. 
3. J.P. Schmidt, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner for the State of Hawaii 
(the "Commissioner") initiated formal proceedings against PrimeGuard in this Court. On November 14, 2005, this Court entered a Seizure Order regarding PrimeGuard. Thereafter, on 
December 19, 2005, the Court placed PrimeGuard under an Order of Liquidation with a finding 
of insolvency and appointed the Commissioner as Liquidator (hereinafter the "Liquidator"). 
4. In May of 2006, a Proof of Claim ("POC") master claim list was compiled by 
using the computer systems of PrimeGuard and Affiliates which contained the most up to date 
names and addresses of warranty holders, dealers and agents of PrimeGuard and its Affiliates 
according to FAWC employees at the time of mailing. 
5. On May 18, 2006 these POC notices were prepared and sent out from the FA WC 
offices in Colorado. 
6. On May 23, 2006, the Liquidator filed a Motion for Leave to Add First Assured 
Warranty Corporation and lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. as Respondents (the "Consolidation 
Motion") in this Proceeding to which First Assured objected. A hearing on the Liquidator's 
Consolidation Motion was scheduled on June 19, 2006. 
7. On June 16, 2006, FAWC filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11, 
Title 11, United States Code, in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Color~do 
(the "Bankruptcy Court"), Case No 06-13669 MER (the ''Bankruptcy Case"). 
8. During the pendency of the Appeal, FAWC and the Liquidator, as well as other 
parties, entered into a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases (the "Settlement Agreement") 
in order to resolve the pending litigation. The Settlement Agreement provided in pertinent part: 
a) FAWC would cease prosecution of its Plan of Reorganization and 
Disclosure Statement and seek dismissal of the Bankruptcy Case; 
b) All properties of FA WC's bankruptcy estate, including any and all assets 
of any type in which FAWC had, asserted, or might assert an ownership 
interest would be under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of this Court 
and that this Court would have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over all of 
FA WC's property which would be administered and liquidated as part of 
the Liquidation Proceeding; and 
2 c) Most, if not all, claims would be addressed and administered in the 
Liquidation Proceeding. 
9. On May 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court dismissed ~he Bankruptcy Case and on 
June 4, 2008, the Appeal was dismissed. 
10. On May 22, 2008, the Liquidator filed his Motion for Leave to Add First Assured 
Warranty Corporation, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise, Inc. as 
Respondents and Placing Them Under a Supplemental Order of Liquidation (the "Motion for 
Leave"). No opposition was filed to the Motion for Leave and on July 17, 2008, this Court 
entered a Supplemental Order of Liquidation which effectively added FAWC as Respondents to 
the Liquidation Proceeding. 
11. As part of the Settlement Agreement entered into between FAWC and the 
Liquidator, the parties agreed that all claims that had been filed in the Bankruptcy Case would be 
administered in the Liquidation Proceeding. Specifically, the parties agreed that subject to the 
Liquidation Court's approval of the Settlement Agreement: (i) all FAWC creditors with claims 
arising under vehicle service contracts and who have filed a proof of claim in the Bankruptcy 
Case ("VSC Claims," individually referred to as a "VSC Claim"), regardless of whether such 
VSC Claims have been filed in the PrimeGuard Liquidation, shall be treated as if such VSC 
Claims were timely filed on an appropriate proof of claim form in the PrimeGuard Liquidation; 
and (ii) the Liquidator shall treat all such VSC Claims the same as similarly situated claims 
timely filed with the Liquidator or in the PrimeGuard Liquidation on proper forms. 
12. The Settlement Agreement also provided for the administration of any "Allowed 
Unsecured Trade Creditors," "Secured Claims" and "Tax Claims" as defined in the Settlement 
Agreement. Essentially, the Settlement Agreement provided that with the exception of Tax 
3 Claims, all other claims not administered in the Bankruptcy Case would be addressed and 
administered in this Liquidation Proceeding. 
13. On May 24, 2013, this Court issued an Order Granting Liquidator's Motion for 
Approval of Supplemental Recommendations regarding filed claims, adding eight claimants as 
Class 2 claimants in the Liquidation. These new claimants received their statutory notice on 
same days as all other claimants, May 20 and 21, 2013. 
14. As the Liquidator was preparing his Motion for Approval of Final Distribution, 
the Liquidator noticed that 4 claimants with identical names had identical claim amounts. Upon 
further investigation, the Liquidator determined that four claimants had an incorrect value 
assigned to their claims. 
15. Similarly, while reviewing the master claim list and Liquidator's 
recommendations, the Liquidator discovered that 64 claimants who had paid for their 
PrimeGuard policies using a third-party financing company, MEPCO, had claims against the 
PrimeGuard Estate. These 64 claimants properly filed their proof of claim forms before the 
deadline. However, when the Liquidator was making his original recommendations, he had not 
yet received MEPCO's files and records. Accordingly, these claimants were not listed in the 
PrimeGuard records and their claims were adjusted by the Liquidator to zero. The Liquidator 
has since reviewed the MEPCO documents and records, and has assigned these 64 Class 2 claims 
their appropriate value. 
16. The Liquidator has determined it is in the best interest of the Liquidation to 
amend these 67 Class 2 claims to reflect their rightful claim against the Liquidation Estate. 
17. The Liquidator has further found that because the Liquidator is now confident that 
all claimants are receiving the correct level of compensation from the Liquidation estate, it is in 
4 the best interest of the Liquidation to make a final distribution at this time. To not make a final 
distribution at this time would merely serve to unnecessarily delay the receipt of compensation 
by the claimants and burden the Liquidation with further needless expense. 
18. The PrimeGuard Estate currently has $4,363,415.40 in its accounts. The 
Liquidator, after reviewing each claim and the Liquidator's recommendations to confirm its 
value, plans to disburse $4,354,673.41 to the Class 2 claimants, paying at least 72.05% of each 
claim (claimants from states with statutory deposits will receive a greater percentage). The 
Liquidator will hold $8,741.99 in its reserve accounts to cover the final costs of wrapping up the 
Liquidation Estate. 
19. PrimeGuard does not have enough funds to fully compensate all of the Class 2 
claimants, therefore subsequent classes will not be receiving distributions. 
I declare under penalty of law that the foregoing is true and correct. 
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, January Jk_, 2014. 
PAUL S.K. 
SPECIAL DEPU y LIQUIDATOR 
5 IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP., 
Respondent. ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM 
) (Special Proceeding) 
) 
) 
) DECLARATION OF ANTHONY F. 
) SUETSUGU 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
DECLARATION OF ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 
I, ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU, declare as follows: 
1. I am an attorney with the law firm of Kobayashi, Sugita & Goda, attorneys for 
Petitioner GORDON ITO, in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company and 
am licensed to practice law before all of the state and federal courts in the State of Hawaii. I 
make this declaration based on personal knowledge unless otherwise indicated. 
2. Attached as Exhibit A to the Motion is a true and correct copy of the Order 
Granting Liquidator's Motion for Approval of Notice, Service and Claim Submittal Procedures 
and Claim Response Deadline Filed May 4, 2006. 3. Attached Exhibit B to the Motion is a true and correct copy of the Order Granting 
Liquidator's Motion for Approval of Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims, filed on May 5, 
2010. 
4. Attached Exhibit C to the Motion is a true and correct copy of the Agreement to 
the Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin. 
5. Attached Exhibit D to the Motion is a true and correct copy of the Agreement to 
the Release of Statutory Deposit in Oklahoma. 
6. Attached Exhibit E to the Motion is a true and correct copy of the Agreement to 
the Release of Statutory Deposit in Louisiana. 
7. Attached as Exhibit F to the Motion is a true and correct copy of the Agreement to 
the Release of Statutory Deposit in Virginia. 
8. Attached Exhibit G to the Motion is a true and correct copy of the Agreement to 
the Release of Statutory Deposit in Arizona. 
9. Attached Exhibit H to the Motion is a true and correct copy of the Notice of 
Motion for Approval of Final Distribution filed on March 8, 2011. 
10. Exhibits I and J are filed under seal pursuant to the Order Granting Ex Parte 
Motion to File Creditor List Under Seal, filed on September 6, 2006. 
I declare under penalty of law that the foregoing is true and correct. 
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, January 16, 2014. ~r 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 
2 EXHIBIT A KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI #4222 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA #2950 
LANSON K. KUP AU #5687 
First Hawaiian Center 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813 
Telephone: 539-8700 
Attorneys for Liquidator : .. 
\-\. CHlHG--­
----:fCEi~ 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance ) 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, ) 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE 
COMPANY, INC., A RISK RETENTION 
GROUP, 
Respondent. ) 
) ) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) CNIL NO. S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM 
(Special Proceeding) 
ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S 
MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF NOTICE, 
SERVICE AND CLAIM SUBMITTAL 
PROCEDURES AND CLAIM RESPONSE 
DEADLINE FILED MAY 4, 2006; EXHIBITS 
"A" -"C" 
HEARING 
Date: May 24, 2006 
Time: 9:30 a.m. 
Judge: Victoria S. Marks 
No Trial Date Set 
ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF NOTICE, SERVICE AND 
CLAIM SUBMITTAL PROCEDURES AND CLAIM RESPONSE DEADLINE FILED MAY 4, 2006 
Petitioner J.P. SCHMIDT'S, in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company, Inc., a Risk Retention Group ("Liquidator"), Motion for Approval of Notice, Service 
and Claim Submittal Procedures and Claim Response Deadline filed herein on May 4, 2006, 
having come on for hearing before the Honorable Victoria S. Marks on May 24, 2006 at 9:30 a.m., 
and Lanson K. Kupau, Esq. having appeared on behalf of the Liquidator and there being no 
401316vl_LKK EXHIBIT A opposition to said Motion, and the Court having reviewed the Motion and attached memorandum, 
declaration and exhibits and there being good cause shown; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Liquidator's Motion for Approval of Notice, Service 
and Claim Submittal Procedures and Claim Response Deadline filed herein on May 4, 2006 is 
granted. 
IT IS FURTHER HEREBY ORDERED that: 
1. The Court approves of the issuance of the proposed Notice of Liquidation Order, 
attached hereto as Exhibit "A." 
2. The Court approves of the issuance of the proposed Claim Response Form, attached 
hereto as Exhibit "B." 
3. The Court approves of the setting of the Claim Response Deadline of NOVEMBER 
30, 2006, and specifically orders that any claims received by the Liquidator after the 
stated Deadline, with the exception of those provided for in the Liquidation Act, shall 
be and is forever barred from receiving a distribution from the PrimeGuard Estate. 
4. Notice and service of motions or other pleadings, which only seek specific relief from 
or pertain only to specific individuals or entities, shall be served via U.S. First Class 
Mail, postage prepaid, only upon those specific individuals or entities. 
5. The Court approves of the issuance of the proposed Notice of Filed Pleading, attached 
hereto as Exhibit "C," at the Liquidator's sole discretion, for all other motions or 
pleadings, except ex parte motions and those certain filings in accordance with Haw. 
Rev. Stat., Chapter 431, Article 15, to all persons referenced in Haw. Rev. Stat., § 
431: 15-311 by any of the following means: (1) by posting the Notice of Filed 
Pleading on the PrimeGuard Estate website: www.primeguard.hawaii.gov; (2) by 
transmitting the Notice of Filed Pleading v:ia email; OR (3) by U.S. First Class Mail. 
Following the expiration of the Claims Response Form Deadline, Notice as provided 
in this paragraph shall be limited to only those individuals or entities who have filed a 
timely Claim Response Form with the Liquidator. 
6. The procedures and forms approved herein shall be effective as of May 4, 2006. 
2 .JUN 6 2006 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, -------
. I 
J.P. Schmidt, in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc. vs. 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM; ORDER GRANTING 
LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF NOTICE, SERVICE AND CLAIM 
SUBMITTAL PROCEDURES AND CLAIM RESPONSE DEADLINE FILED MAY 4, 2006; 
EXHIBITS "A" -"C" 
3 EXHIBIT A ' . 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMP ANY IN LIQUIDATION 
C/O J.P. Schmidt, Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company 
P.O. Box 3614, Honolulu, Hawaii 96811 
Toll Free (800) 860-3843 /Website: www.primeguard.hawaii.gov 
NOTICE OF LIQUIDATION ORDER AND PROCEDURES FOR FILING CLAIMS IN 
THE PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY LIQUIDATION 
IMPORTANT NOTICE 
YOUR CLAIM RESPONSE FORM MUST BE RECEIVED BY WITH THE 
LIQUIDATOR NO LATER THAN NOVEMBER 30, 2006 OR YOU MAY BE BARRED 
FROM ANY MONETARY DISTRIBUTION FROM THE ESTATE 
MAY __,2006 
Re: J.P. Schmidt vs. PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc.; S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM 
To All Insurance Commissioners and All Agents, Policyholders and Potential Claimants of 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, A Risk Retention Group, and of any PrimeGuard 
Affiliates, including First Assured Warranty Corporation and lSourceAutoWarranty.com, 
Inc. 
Pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat., § 431:15-311, you are hereby provided with the following 
notice. PrimeGuard Insurance Company, a Risk Retention Group ("PrimeGuard") was licensed 
by the State of Hawaii Insurance Division as a risk retention captive insurance company. 
PrimeGuard provided insurance coverage to various companies, including First Assured 
Warranty Corporation ("First Assured"), lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. ("!Source"), and 
WarranteeWise, Inc. ("WaranteeWise"), for their respective obligations arising from automobile 
service contracts and extended warranties that they sold and issued to consumers and automobile 
dealers for cars, motorcycles and other vehicles. 
On December 19, 2005, the Circuit Court of the First Circuit, State of Hawaii, issued an 
Order of Liquidation of PrimeGuard. The court declared PrimeGuard insolvent as defined in the 
Hawaii Liquidation Act. The court further appointed the Insurance Commissioner of the State of 
Hawaii, J.P. Schmidt, and his successors in office, as Liquidator and ordered him to take 
possession and title of all of PrimeGuard's assets and liquidate PrimeGuard in accordance with 
the Hawaii Liquidation Act under the general supervision of the court. The Liquidator is seeking 
to add First Assured and 1 Source into the Liquidation Proceedings so that claims of all creditors 
of PrimeGuard, First Assured and 1 Source can be addressed in the same proceeding. 
Information concerning the liquidation of PrimeGuard, as well as a copy of the 
Liquidation Order, may be obtained from the Hawaii Insurance Division's website noted above. 
Pursuant to the Liquidation Order, all warranty contracts insured by PrimeGuard are ordered 
cancelled the earlier of: (1) a period of thirty days from the date of the entry of the Liquidation 
399044v2_LKK 
EXHIBIT A Order; (2) the expiration of the warranty contract; or (3) the date when the warranty contract 
holder has replaced the warranty contract with an equivalent warranty contract or otherwise 
terminated by the warranty contract. 
In addition to the foregoing, enclosed with this Notice is a Claim Response Form and 
Instructions on completing the form. Please read the Instructions carefully and complete the 
Claim Response Form. You will also be required to provide the Liquidator with documentation 
to support your claim. Keep a copy of the all documents submitted to the Liquidator for your 
files. Please be aware that all Claim Response Forms along with all supporting documents must 
be received by the Liquidator no later than NOVEMBER 30, 2006. If you fail to file your 
Claim Response Form with all supporting documents with the Liquidator by the stated deadline, 
you may be forever barred from receiving any monetary distribution for your claim from the 
PrimeGuard Estate. 
EVEN IF YOU HAVE PREVIOUSLY CONTACTED THE LIQUIDATOR'S 
OFFICE OR INSURANCE COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE AND BELIEVE THAT YOU 
HAVE ALREADY SUBMITTED A CLAIM, THE LIQUIDATOR MUST RECEIVE 
YOUR ENCLOSED CLAIM RESPONSE FORM WITH ALL SUPPORTING 
DOCUlVIENTS BY THE STATED DEADLINE TO BE ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE A 
DISTRIBUTION OF THE PRIMEGUARD ESTATE. 
Pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat, § 431:15-329(b), if your claim is denied by the Liquidator, 
in whole or in part, you will be issued a Notice of Determination informing you of the denial and 
will be given an opportunity to object to the Liquidator's determination within 60 days from the 
mailing of the Notice of Determination. If you fail to object to the Liquidator's Notice of 
Determination, you may not further object. If an objection is timely filed, and the Liquidator's 
Determination is not altered, the Liquidator may request that the court decide the matter or 
appoint a referee to decide the matter. 
At the moment, PrimeGuard does not possess sufficient assets to pay all of the 
anticipated claims. Any additional monies to pay claims will have to come from available 
insurance policies and/or lawsuits I settlements with other individuals or entities. Because. 
· litigation is time-consuming and uncertain, the Liquidator cannot predict what assets will be 
available to pay claims. Therefore, the Liquidator cannot, at this point, make any assurances as 
to when or how much of a distribution will be made to any claimant. 
Because you are not a named party in the above-referenced liquidation but only a 
potential claimant, various motions, papers, notices and other documents filed in the liquidation 
proceedings are not required to be served on you under Hawaii's Liquidation Act. With over 
40,000 potential claimants, the costs of providing copies of various court documents to each 
claimant will significantly deplete PrimeGuard's remaining assets. Despite this, the Liquidator 
recognizes that certain developments in the liquidation may be of interest to claimants. As a 
result, the Liquidator, at his sole discretion, may provide you with notice of a filed pleading in 
the liquidation in one of the following manners: (1) by posting a Notice of Filed Pleading on the 
PrimeGuard Estate website: www.primeguard.hawaii.gov; (2) by transmitting the Notice of Piled 
Pleading via email; OR (3) by U.S. First Class Mail. The Liquidator's Notice of Filed Pleading 
will provide you with a summary of the filed document and permit you an opportunity to receive 
2 ' ' 
a copy of the document and voice your position, if any. Therefore, it is important for you to 
often check the PrimeGuard website for any updates. 
However, if a particular document filed in the liquidation pertains to you specifically, as 
opposed to a class of claimants generally, you will be provided with notice and service of that 
particular document. 
The Liquidator appreciates your patience as the liquidation process may talce several 
years to conclude. Above all, the Liquidator and his staff will do everything possible to insure 
that all those affected by the liquidation of PrimeGuard will be treated fairly and equally in 
accordance with the Hawaii Liquidation Act. 
3 J.P. Schmidt, Liquidator 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company EXHIBIT B ' ' 
CLAIM RESPONSE FORM 
J.P. Schmidt vs. PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., a Risk Retention Group 
S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM, First Circuit Court, State of Hawaii 
CLAIMANT'S NAME: 
CLAIMANT' S ADDRESS: ~~~~~--~~~~~~~ 
PLEASE READ ENCLOSED INSTRUCTIONS CONCERNING CLAIM 
RESPONSE FORM BEFORE COMPLETING THIS FORM. 
1. If you believe that you have a claim against PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., First 
Assured Warranty Corporation or 1 SourceAuto Warranty.com, Inc., you must print your 
name and sign in the spaces provided below and provide (in the space below or on additional 
sheets of paper, if necessary) a full and complete description of your claim, including the 
amount of the claim and the circumstances under which the claim-arose, and documentary 
evidence in support of your claim. 
I state, under penalty of perjury, that I have a claim against the 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., First Assured Warranty 
Corporation or lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc.; that a full and 
complete description of my claim, including the amount of the 
claim and the circumstances under which the claim arose is set 
forth below; and that true and accurate documentary evidence in 
support of my claim is attached to this Claim Response Form. 
Print Name 
Current Address, if different from above 
Email Address 
Phone Number 
Signature of Claimant Date 
DESCRIPTION OF CLAIM(S): 
EXHIBIT B 
399044v2_LKK 2. If you believe that you do NOT have a claim against PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., 
First Assured Warranty Corporation or lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., please complete this 
section. 
I state, under penalty of perjury, that I have read the Notice of Liquidation 
Order and Procedures for Filing Claims in the PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company Liquidation and this form and that I do NOT have a claim against 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., First Assured Warranty Corporation or 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. 
Print Name 
Signature Date 
IMPORTANT 
THIS COMPLETED CLAIM RESPONSE FORM (AND ANY DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE, 
IF APPLICABLE) MUST BE RECEIVED AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS, BY 
NOVEMBER 30, 2006: 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY IN LIQUIDATION 
C/O J.P. Schmidt, Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company 
P.O. Box 3614 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96811 
IF YOU FAIL TO COMPLETE AND RETURN THIS CLAIM RESPONSE FORM (AND 
ANY SUPPORTING DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE, IF APPLICABLE), SO THAT IT IS 
RECEIVED BY NOVEMBER 30, 2006, ANY CLAIM YOU MAY HA VE IN THIS 
LIQUIDATION PROCEEDING SHALL BE DISALLOWED AND FOREVER BARRED .. 
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT THE LIQUIDATOR CANNOT GIVE ANY ASSURANCES 
RESPECTING WHETHER OR WHEN A DISTRIBUTION WILL BE MADE, OR WHAT 
AMOUNTS WILL BE DISTRIBUTED. BECAUSE THE FUNDS AVAILABLE TO PAY 
CLAIMS ARE LIMITED, THERE IS A POSSIBILITY YOU MAY NOT RECOVER ANY 
PART OF YOUR CLAIM. THE PURPOSE OF THIS FORM IS TO ASCERTAIN AND 
CONFIRM THE CLAIMS AGAINST lSOURCEAUTOWARRANTY.COM, INC., FIRST 
ASSURED WARRANTY CORPORATION AND PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMP ANY, 
INC. IN ORDER TO FACILITATE DISTRIBUTION TO THOSE HOLDING CLAIMS 
AGAINST lSOURCEAUTOW ARRANTY.COM, INC., FIRST ASSURED WARRANTY 
CORPORATION AND PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, INC. IF AND WHEN A 
DISTRIBUTION IS MADE. COMPLETING THE FORM DOES NOT GUARANTEE THAT 
YOUR CLAIM, OR ANY PART THEREOF, WILL BE PAID. 
2 INSTRUCTIONS CONCERNING CLAIM RESPONSE FORM 
J.P. Schmidt vs. PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., a Risk Retention Group 
S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM, First Circuit Court, State of Hawaii 
1. Please complete the Claim Response Form by printing legibly or typewriting. 
2. If any document in support of your claim has been lost or destroyed or cannot be provided, 
you must explain the circumstances on an additional sheet of paper and attach it to the Claim 
Response Form. 
3. If you are not the original claimant whose name appears on the Claim Response Form (for 
example, ifthe original claimant is deceased), you must explain on an additional sheet of 
paper your relationship to the stated claimant and attach that sheet of paper, togeth~r with 
documentary evidence establishing your entitlement, to the Claim Response Form. 
4. If the form does not accurately state your current address, please cross out the address 
provided on the Claim Response Form, and write in your current address. If your address 
changes in the future, it is your responsibility to give written notice to Mr. J.P. Schmidt, 
Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., at the address provided in the Claim 
Response Form. 
5. If you do not complete and return the enclosed Claim Response Form, so that it is 
received by NOVEMBER 30, 2006, any claim you may have against PrimeGuard 
Insurance Company, Inc. shall be disallowed and forever barred. 
3 EXHIBIT C NOTICE OF FILED PLEADING TO ALL AGENTS, INSUREDS, POLICYHOLDERS, 
CREDITORS, CLAI~TS AND ALL OTHER INTERESTED INDIVIDUALS OR 
ENTITIES OF PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, INC. 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Liquidator 
("Liquidator") of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc. has filed his [Title of Motion] in 
the liquidation proceeding entitled J.P. Schmidt vs. PrimeGuard Insurance Company, 
Inc. S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM, Circuit Court of the First Circuit, State of Hawaii. The 
Liquidator's Motion requests [Description of Motion]. 
NOTICE IS FURTHER HEREBY GIVEN that the Liquidator's Motion will 
come on for hearing before the Honorable Victoria S. Marks, in her courtroom located at 
Kaahumanu Hale, 777 Punchbowl Street, Honolulu, Hawaii, on at 
or as soon thereafter as counsel can be heard. ---~ 
PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that this Notice is only a summary of the 
Motion filed therein. A complete copy of the Motion is available for inspection in the 
office of the Clerk of Court at the above address during regular business hours. If you do 
not oppose the Motion, you are not required to take any action. If you wish to oppose or 
comment on the Motion, you must file a written statement with the Court, setting forth 
your position in detail no later than eight (8) business days prior to the hearing and serve 
a copy of your position upon the Liquidator's counsel, Kobayashi, Sugita & Goda, First 
Hawaiian Center, 999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813. 
The hearing may be adjourned without further notice other than by announcement 
at the scheduled date and time of the hearing or by posting on the Court's bulletin board. 
At the hearing, the Court may also consider any other matters which are properly 
presented to it. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii,-------
399044v2_LKK J.P. SCHMIDT, Liquidator 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc. 
Exhibit C EXHIBIT B KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0 
LANSON K. KUPAU 5687-0 
First Hawaiian Center 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889 
Telephone: 539-8700 
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt 
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii ,.,..--·· 
I \ 
' } 
i;.lRSf•·c-!RCIJHiCt!HR ·: 
I STAlE lJ.f"'.iiP,W't~ ii ''f"lf' 'fk 
2DIOMAY -5 .PM 3: 2i 
H. CHING 
CLERK 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Connnissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP, 
Respondent. ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 (RAN) 
) (Special Proceedings) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S 
MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF 
RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FILED 
CLAIMS 
HEARING 
Date: April 27, 2010 
Time: 10:00 a.m. 
Judge: Hon. Rhonda A. Nishimura 
NO TRIAL DATE SET 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR 
APPROVAL OF RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FILED CLAIMS 
Petitioner J.P. Schmidt's, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii in his capacity 
as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWan·anty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. (collectively the "PrimeGuard 
Companies"), MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FILED 
CLAIMS came on for hearing before the Honorable Rhonda A. Nishimoto on April 27, 2010 at 
Document ID: 464737_1_LKK EXHIBIT 8 10:00 a.m. Lanson K. Kupau appeared on behalf of the Liquidator. No opposition was filed. No 
other: appearances were made. 
The Court having reviewed the Motion and attached memorandum, declaration and 
exhibits and having been apprised in the premises; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Liquidator's Motion For Approval Of 
Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims is granted as follows: 
(i) A hearing is set for July 1, 2010 at 9:30 a.m. in the above referenced court, in 
accordance with the Liquidation Act in order to consider all objections identified in Exhibits C-1 
through C-5 of the motion; 
(ii) The claim amount and priority of all Class 2 claims (VSC claims) are established 
and confinned as set fo1ih in Exhibit D of the motion; 
(iii) The priority but not amount of all Other Creditors (including Classes 3 through 9 
except for Class 7) are established and confirmed as set forth in Exhibit E of the motion; 
(iv) The priority (but not amount) of all Class 7 Late Filed Claims are established and 
confirmed as set forth in Exhibit F of the motion; 
(v) The amount of claims for all creditors beyond Class 2, including claimants in 
Classes 3 through 9, are to be determined only after such time as the Liquidator determines that 
sufficient assets will be available to distribute at the respective priority level. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, May __ , 2010. MAY o 5 2010 
RHONDA A. NISHIMURA 
JUDGE OF THE ABOVE ENTI 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii v. PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company, Inc.; S.P. No. 05-1-0443 RAN; ORDER GRANTING Liquidator's Motion For Approval Of 
Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims 
Document ID: 464737_l_LKK EXHIBIT C 0 /"''\ 
: ; /'· .' l..,_j 
Agreement for the Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin 
Involving 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, 
. First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
1 SourceAuto Warranty .com, Inc., and 
. W arrantee Wise, Inc. 
This Agreement for the Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin (11Agreement11
) is 
executed on the dates indicated below on the signature page. This Agreement is between and 
among the following Pmiies: · 
Liquidator: 
J.P'. Schmid~ Insurance Commissioner of tb.e State of Hawaii in his capacity as 
"Liquidator" of ,PrlmeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWan·anty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc.; and 
Commissioner: 
Sean Dilweg, Insurance Commissioner, State of Wisconsin. 
ARTICLE 1 RECITALS 
1.1. Pursuant to an Order of Liquidation dated December 19, 2005 and a Supplemental 
Order of Liquidation dated July 17, 2008, J.P. Schmidt, Insurance Commissioner of the State o~ 
Hawaii, was appointed as Liquidator of Prim.eGuard Insurance Company, First Assured 
Wananty Corporation, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, foe. 
1.2. As of the Contract Date, a Deposit was· in existence in the amount of 
approximately $138,951.03 held by the Commissioner pursuant to Wisconsin Statutes.(Wis. 
Stat.)§ 616.72 as a statutory deposit (11Deposit11) specifically to assure faithful performance of its 
obligations to Wisconsin Contract Holders. 
1.3. .On May 5, 2010, the Liquidation Court entered its Order Approving Liquidator's 
Motion for Approval of Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims, including a determmation of 
the cl~ amounts for the Wisconsin Contract Holders. 
1.4. The purposes of this Agreement are (i) to confirm the Agreement as between the 
'" Liquidator and the Commissioner with respect to the release and payment of the Deposit; and (ii) 
to authorize release of the Deposit to the Liquidator in order to permit the Liquidator to pay the 
Deposit to the Wisconsin Contract .Holders in accordance herewith. 
.. , 
\ 
\'-..._.// AGREEMENTS 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth in this 
Agreemen~ the Parties agree as follows: 
{00808237 / 1} 
EXHIBIT C Agreement for Release of Stalntory Deposit in Wisconsin 
Page 1 of7 -· /• ,/ 
/1 t 
/ (~ .. ,. f ~\ 
\ . ; 
ARTICLE 2 DEFJNITIONS 
Capitalized terms when used in this Agreement and the Recitals shall have the meanings 
set fo1ih below. As used throughout this Agreement, references to defined terms that are 
singular include the plural and that are plural include the singular, as appropriate. 
2.1. "Agreement11 means this Agreement for the Release of Statutory Deposit in 
Wisconsin. 
2.2. "Contract Date11 means the date on which this Agreement has been signed by all 
parties . 
.2.3. "Deposif11 means the statutory deposit in the approximate amount of $138,951.03 
being held by the Commissioner for the benefit of the Wisconsin Contract Holders . 
. 2.4. "Deposit Claims" means the total amount of 8.11 claims of the Wisconsin Contract 
Holders against First Assured Warranty Corporation and/or Pi.'imeGuard Insu.rance Company. 
Th~ Deposit Claims are identified in Exhibit 3 .1. 
2.5. 11Commissioner11 means Sean Dilweg, Commissioner of Insurance for the State of 
Wisconsin. 
2.~. "Effective Date11 means the date on which this Agreement becomes effective. The 
. uEffective Date" will be the first business day after this Agreement has been approved by the 
Liquidation Court and any appeal period has expired without an appeal being filed. 
2.7. "Estate" means the liquidation estate of PlimeGuard Insurance Company, First 
Assured Wananty Corporation, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise~ Inc., 
under the jurisdiction of the Liquidation Court. 
2.8. ''Wisconsin Contract Holders'' mean the Wisconsin residents with claims under 
Vehicle Service Contracts against First Assured Warranty Corporation and/ or PrimeGuard 
Insurance Company. The· Wisconsin Contract Holders are identified in Exhibit 3 .1. 
2.9. "Liquidator" means J.P. Schmidt, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii 
in his capacity as Liql?idator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Wru:ranty 
Corporation, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc., includmghis 
successors in office, if any. 
2.10. "Liquidation Court" means the Circuit Court of the First Circuit, State pf Hawaii, 
S.P. No. 05-1-0443 (RAN) with jurisdiction over the Estate and f4e insolvency proceedings ·of 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporatio~ 
lSou;rceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
ARTICLE 3 RELEASE OF DEPOSIT AND PAYMENT OF CLAIMS 
3.1. Deposit Claims. The Deposit Claims are set forth, identified and calculated in 
Exhibit 3.1, which claims were submitted to the Liquidation Court and approved by the 
Liquidation Court in its May 5, 2010 order. 
{00808237 / 1} 
Agreement for Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin 
:Page2 of7 • I ,, (?-\ 
··~' 
) 3.2. Deposit. The amount of the Deposit is approximately $138,951.03 as of the 
'-----~./ Contract Date. As of the Contract Date, no payments or disbursements have been made from the 
Deposit 
----. / 
("'--_) 3.3. Transfer of Deposit to Liquidator. Within ten (10) business days after the 
Effective Date, the Commissioner will cause the Deposit to be transfen·ed to the Liquidator in 
order for the Liquidator to disburse the funds from the Deposit pursuant to this Agreement. The 
Liquidator shall deliver wire or other transfer instructions to the Commissioner. To the extent 
any additional documentation is necessary in order to transfer the Deposit to the Liquidator, the · 
Commissioner and the Liquidator agree to execute such documents so long as such documents 
are reasonable and appropriate under the circU:mstances. 
3.4. Liquidator Use of Deposit To Pay Deposit Claims. The Liquidator will cause the 
Deposit, plus any interest ea.med thereon, to be paid to the Wisconsin Contract Holders on a pro 
rata basis in accordance with Exhibit 3 .1 as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of the · 
funds from the Commissioner and, if possible, by combining the payment with a payment of 
general assets to avoid multiple mailings. In any event, the Liquidator will <?ause payments from 
the Deposit to be mailed to the holders of the Deposit Claims on or before Febmary 28, 2011. 
3 .5. Allocation of Deposit Balance to General Assets. As indicated in Exhibit 3 .1, the 
amount of the Deposit is sufficient to pay in full all claim~ of the Wisconsin Contract Holders 
and leaving a balance of $50,280.11. After the Deposit has been paid pro·rata to satisfy th~ 
Deposit Claims, the Liquidator shall deposit the amount of the balance vvith the Estate as a 
general asset and subject to distribution to all other creditors of the Estate in accordance with the 
Hawaii Liquidation Act.· 
3.6. ReP.ort to the Commissioner. At or about the time the Deposit is paid to th~ 
Wisconsin Contract Holders, the Liquidator will report to the Commissioner the payment amount 
made to the Wisconsin Contract Holders. 
ARTICLE 4 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
4.1. Notice. Any notice required or pennitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed 
to be given if delivered by: hand or if mailed by first class or certified mail, postage prepaid, or 
by postal or a commercial express delivery· service which issues an individual delivery receipt to 
the address information below. While emails may be sent as copies in addition to the specific 
methods identified as satisfying notice requirements, emails, alone, are not sufficient. 
{ 00808237 / l} 4.1. l. Address information for the Liquidator: 
First Assured Warranty Corporation -In Liquidation 
c/o State of Hawaii 
DCCA Insurance Division 
P.O. Box 3614 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96811 
Attn: Paul Yuen 
Phone: (808) 586-2790 
Fax: (808) 586-2806 
Agreement for Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin 
Page3of7 ""-'I J· I I 
r \ 
\ I '-.._/ 4.1.2. Address infonnation for the Commissioner 
Robert R. Luck 
Attomey . 
Office of the Commissioner ofinsill'a11ce 
125 South Webster Street 
Madison, WI 53703-3474 
Phone: ( 608) 266-008~ 
Email: Robert.Luck@wisconsin.gov 
. . 4.1.;3. Changes. Each Party shall be responsible for notifyi.ng, in writing, the 
other Parties promptly of any change in addressee or address. 
4.2. Liquidation Court Approval. This Agreement is subject to the approval of the 
· LiquidatiOn Court and will not become effective until after the Liquidation Court has approved · 
this Agreement and the appeal period for such order has expired without appeal. The Parties 
agree to take reasonable steps and work cooperatively to request and.secure.Liquidation Court 
approval as soon as reasonable practicable after the Contract Date. 
4.3. Settlement and Compromise. This Agreement is a compromise resolution of 
disputed claims for the purpose of mitigating the costs, uncertainties, and bUl'dens of resolving 
such dispute by.means other than a settlement. This Agreement does not constitute an 
aclmowledgment or admission in any way on the part of the Parties hereto. 
· 4.4. Cooperation in Implementing Settlement. The Parties ~hall cooperate in the . 
preparation· and execution of any petitions, agreements, orders, or other documents necessary to 
accomplish the terms, purposes and intent of this Agreement and consummating the transactions 
herein. 
4.5. . Entire Understanding., Waiver and Modification. This Agreement contains the 
entire understanding among the Parties with i:espect to the matters described herein and 
supersedes all preexisting or simultaneous agreements, oral or written. No breach of any 
provision hereof can be waived unless in writing. Waiver of any one breach shall not be deemed 
to be a waiver of any other breach of the same or any other provision hereof: This Agreement 
may not be changed, modified or amended except by a written agreement executed by the 
Pru.ties. 
4.6. Counterparts and Originals. This Agreement may be executed in any number of 
counterparts and by different Parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so 
executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall 
constitute one and the same document. 
4.7. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon, ~d shall inure to the 
benefit of, the Parties hereto, their successors-in-interest, heirs, assigns, officers, employees, 
agen~ and representatives. · 
{00808237 / l} 
Agreement for Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin 
Page4of7 "I ,, 
4.8. No Third Party Bene~ciaries. This Agreement creates no third party beneficiaries· 
and shall not create any rights or benefits. that may be enforced by any persons not party to this 
Agreement. · 
. 4.9. No Interpretation Against Drafter. Because ea~h Party has had the· opportunity to 
draft, review and ~dit the language in this Agreement, no presumption for or against any Party 
arising out of the drafting of all or any part of this Agreement will be applied in any action or 
other proceedings relating to, arising out of, or invoking this Agreement and each Party :waives 
th~ benefit of any statute or rule of law providing ·otherwise. 
4.10. Inclusion of Recitals, Definitions and Exhibits. The provisions in the Recitals and 
Defmitions section of this Agreement are valid, binding and enforceable. The exhibits are 
incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in the text hereof. 
[The remainder ofiliis page is intentionally left blank.] 
{00808237 / l} 
Agreement for Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin . 
Page 5 of7 '•' 
( I 
\ /' "--r-, 
j 
i ,, /~-~~, 
(T 
\.~__;· 
JN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned. have executed this Agreement for the Release of 
Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin on the dates indicated: 
CTIIB LIQUIDATOR: . . . 
qOr.cf01 J..r ~ . · . 
~surance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii .in his capacity as"Liquidator of 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured.Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.co~ Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
Trrie:-1-+~~l~'~-..!:l:~~~i....=:.4-=~~~~~~fo~r 
Date: _~I l--i-/ ~R-+---/ l_U ____ _ 
THE COMMISSIONER: 
Sean. Dilweg, Instirance Co:mmissio;ner 
Office of the Copnnissioner of Insurance -~-· 
:~,=~~ 
Title: Commissioner of TnsUta!lce 
Dat~: November 5, 2010 
{00808237 / l} 
Agreement for Release ofSmtutory Deposit in Wisconsin 
Page6of7 '' 
0 
~----. ,' -· ''. 
'-~ ,, (t~·. 
'., _ _; 
EXHIBIT 3.1 -Deposit Claims 
Filed Separately and Under Seal 
Pursuant to Order Granting Ex Parte Motion 
to File Creditor List Under Seal filed on September 6, 2006 '. 
0 1 l •• c/ 'I 
0 Amendment to Agreement to the Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin 
Involving 
PriineGuard Insurance Company, 
First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAuto Warranty.com, Inc. and 
Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
This Amendment to the Agreement to the Release of Statutory Deposit in 
Wisconsin (the "Agreement") is executed on the dates indicated below on the signature 
page. This Amendment is between and among the following Parties: 
Liquidator: 
. 
Gordon Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, in his capaCity as 
"Liquidator" of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
ISourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Wa11·antee Wise., fuc.; and 
Director: 
Theodore K. Nickel, Insurance Commissioner, the State of Wisconsin. 
RECITALS 
WHEREAS, the Liquidator and Director entered into the Agreement on 
November 5, 2010 whexein the pa1iies agreed to the release the statutory Deposit (as 
defined in the Agreement) to pay the Wisconsin Contract Holders (as defined in the 
Agreement), pursuant to the terms of said Agreement; 
WHEREAS, the parties now desire to amend the terms of the Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the covenants and 
agreements set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and 
. sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the pa1ties hereby mutually promise, 
covenant and agree as follows: 
1. Definitions. Unless inconsistent with or contrary to the context of the 
Agreement, the defined te1ms used in the Agreement shall have the same meanings in 
this Amendment. 
2. Paragraph 3.4. Paragraph 3..4 of the Agreement shall be amended to state 
as follows, with the amended language in bold: · 
The Liquidator will cause the Deposit, plus any interest earned thereoni to be paid 
to the Wisconsin Contract Holders on a pro rata basis in accordance with Exhibit 
3.1 as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of the :funds from the Director 
and, if possible, by combining the payment with a payment of general assets to 
avoid multiple mailings. In any event., the Liquidator will cause payments from 
Document ID: 474273_l_AFS , .... '' 
0 
~----/" '• . ., u the Deposit to be mailed to the holders of the Deposit Claims on or before July 
31, 2011. 
However, if any of the following events make it impossible for the Liquidator 
to mail payments to the holders of Deposit Claims on or before July 31, 2011, 
the Liquidator will use his best efforts to cause payments to be mailed to the 
holders of Deposit Claims as soon as practicable: 
(a) the Liquidation Court does not approve the Agreement; 
(b) the Liquidation Court approves the Agreement, and someone appeals the 
approval; or 
( c) if the Liquidation Court for any other reason beyond the control of the 
Liquidator, delays in entering an order or final judgment approving the 
Agreement. · 
3. No Further Amendment. Except as amended herein, the Agreement 
l'emains unamended and unaltered and in full force and effect. 
4. Counte1:parts; Facsimile Signature. This Amendment may be executed in 
several counterparts, or by facsimile (telecopy) copies, each of which shall be deemed an 
original, but all Of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, binding on both 
patties hereto, notwithstanding that both of the parties are not signatory to the original or 
the same counterpa1ts. All of such counterpait signature pages shall be read as though 
one, and they shall have the same force and effect as though all of the signers had signed 
a single signature page. If any party signs by means of facsimile (telecopy) copy, such 
facsimile (telecopy) copy shall be deemed to be an original and effective as of the time 
and date of such signing, and the signer agrees to promptly forward to the other party the 
sigrn;id original hereof. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this 
Amendment the day and year fh'st above written. 
The ·Liquidator: 
Gordon Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, in his capacity as 
"Liquidator'' ofPrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Wan·anty Corporation, 
I SourceAuto Wl&1m, fuc, and Warrantee Wise, li:tc. 
By: ~Q5? 
Name: Gordon Ito 
Title: Insurance Com:nissioner 
Document ID: 4?4273_1_.AFS I t ~, •' 
Date: L/ .. ~ / </; -d-0 / / 
The Director: 
Theodore K. Nickel> Insurance Commissioner 
Office of the Commissioner of Insurance for the State of Wisconsin 
By: 7 
Name: Theodme K. Nickel 
Title: Commissioner oflnsurance 
Date: t.(-f f-2o// 
Document ID: 474273_1_AFS Amendment to Agreement to the Release of Statutory Deposit in Wisconsin 
Involving 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, 
First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
1 SourceAuto Warranty.com, Inc. and 
W arrantee Wise, Inc. 
This Amendment to the Agreement to the Release of Statutory Deposit in 
Wisconsin (the "Agreement") is executed on the dates indicated below on the signature 
page. This Amendment is between and among the following Parties: 
Liquidator: 
Gordon Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, in his capacity as 
"Liquidator" of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise, Inc.; and 
Director: 
Theodore K. Nickel, Insurance Commissioner, the State· of Wisconsin. 
RECITALS 
WHEREAS, the Liquidator and Director entered into the Agreement on 
November 5, 2010 wherein the parties agreed to the release the statutory Deposit (as 
defined in the Agreement) to pay the Wisconsin Contract Holders (as defined in the 
Agreement), pursuant to the terms of said Agreement; 
WHEREAS, the parties now desire to amend the terms of the Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the covenants and 
agreements set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and 
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby mutually promise, 
covenant and agree as follows: 
1. Definitions. Unless inconsistent with or contrary to the context of the 
Agreement, the defined terms used in the Agreement shall have the same meanings in 
this Amendment. 
2. Paragraph 3.4. Paragraph 3.4 of the Agreement shall be amended to state 
as follows, with the amended language in bold: 
The Liquidator will cause the Deposit, plus any interest earned thereon, to be paid 
to the Wisconsin Contract Holders on a pro rata basis in accordance with Exhibit 
3 .1 as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of the funds from the Director 
and, if possible, by combining the payment with a payment of general assets to 
avoid multiple mailings. In any event, the Liquidator will cause payments from 
Document ID: 474273 _l_AFS the Deposit to be mailed to the holders of the Deposit Claims on or before July 
31, 2011. 
However, if any of the following events make it impossible for the Liquidator 
to mail payments to the holders of Deposit Claims on or before July 31, 2011, 
the Liquidator will use his best efforts to cause payments to be mailed to the 
holders of Deposit Claims as soon as practicable: 
(a) the Liquidation Court does not approve the Agreement; 
(b) the Liquidation Court approves the Agreement, and someone appeals the 
approval; or 
( c) if the Liquidation Court for any other reason beyond the control of the 
Liquidator, delays in entering an order or final judgment approving the 
Agreement, 
3. No Further Amendment. Except as amended herein, the Agreement 
remains unamended and unaltered and in full force and effect. 
4. Counterpa1ts; Facsimile Signature. This Amendment may be executed in 
several counterparts, or by facsimile (telecopy) copies, each of which shall be deemed an 
original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, binding on both 
parties hereto, notwithstanding that both of the pa1iies are not signatory to the original or 
the same counterpa1ts. All of such counterpa1t signature pages shall be read as though. 
one, and they shall have the same force and effect as though all of the signers had signed 
a single signature page. If any paity signs by means of facsimile (telecopy) copy, such 
facsimile (telecopy) copy shall be deemed to be an ol'iginal and effective as of the time 
and date of such signing, and the signer agrees to promptly forward to the other party the 
sign~d original hereof. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this 
Amendment the day and year first above written. 
The 'Liquidator: 
Gordon Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, in his capacity as 
"LiquidatorH of PrimeGuai·d Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
1sourceAutown?°m, Jnc, and Warrantee Wise, Inc, 
·By:\-CQ~ 
Name: Gordon Ito 
Title: Insurance Conmissioner 
Document ID: 474273_l_AFS Date: L/ --/ g -cJ.O / / 
The Director: 
Theodore K. Nickel, Insurance Commissioner 
Office of the Commissioner of Insurance for the State of Wisconsin 
By· ·,..~ 
Name: Theodore K. Nickel 
Title: Commissioner of Insurance 
Date: l/-lf-2o// 
Document ID: 474273_1_AFS EXHIBIT D Agreement for the Release of Statutory Deposit in Oklahoma 
Involving 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, 
First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and 
Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
This Agreement for the Release of Statutory Deposit in Oklahoma (11 Agreement") is 
executed on the dates indicated below on the signature page. This Agreement is between and 
among the following Pal'ties: 
Liquidator: 
J.P. Schmidt, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii in his capa,city as 
11Liquidator11 of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warl'anty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and~Warrantee Wise, Inc.; and 
Commissioner: 
Kim Holland, Insurance Commissioner, State of Oklahoma. 
ARTlCLE 1 REClTALS 
1.1. Pursuant to an Order of Liquidation dated December 19, 2005 and a Supplemental 
Order of Liquidation dated July 17, 2008, J.P. Schmidt, Insurance Commissioner of the State of 
Hawaii, was appointed as Liquidator of PdmeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured 
Warranty Corporation, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
1.2. As of the Contract Date, a Deposit was· in existence in the amount of 
approximately $51,501.46 held by the Commissioner pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes Section 
3102 of Title 36 (36 O.S. § 3102) as a statutory deposit (11Deposit11) specifically to assure faithful 
performance of its obligations to Oklahoma Contract Holders. 
1.3. On May 5, 2-010, the Liquidation Court entered its Order Approving Liquidator's 
Motion for Approval of Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims, including a detennination of 
·the claim amounts for the Oklahoma Contract Holders. 
1.4. The purposes of this Agreement are (i) to confirm the Agreement as between the 
Liquidator and the Commissioner with respect to the release and payment of the Deposit; and (ii) 
to authorize release of the Deposit to the Liquidator in order to permit the Liquidator to pay the 
Deposit to the Oklahoma Contract Holders in accordance herewith. 
AGREEMENTS 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth in this 
Agreement, the Parties agree as follows: 
{00808236 I I} 
AgrumMt for ReJeas~ nfS!atutory Deposit in Oklahoma 
Pog~ I of? 
EXHIBIT D ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS 
Capitalized tetms when used in this Agreement and the Recitals shall have the meanings 
set forth below. As used throughout this Agreement, references to defined terms that ru:e 
singular include the plural and that are plural include the singular) as appropriate. 
2.1. "Agreement" means this Agreement for the Release of Statutory Deposit in 
Oklahoma. 
2.2. 11Contract Date" means the date on which this Agreement lias been signed by all 
parties. 
2.3. 11Deposit11 means the statutory deposit in the approximate amount of $51,501.46 
being held by the Commissioner for the benefit of the Oklahoma Contract Holders. 
2.4. 11Deposit Claims" means the total amount of all claims of the Oklahoma Contract 
Holders against First Assured Warranty Corporation and/or PrimeGuard Insurance Company. 
The Deposit Claims are identified in Exhibit 3.1. 
2.5. 11Commissioner11 means Kim Holland, Commissioner oflnsurance for the State of 
Oklahoma. 
2.6. 0Effective Date" means the date on which this Agreement becomes effective. The 
"Effective Date" will be the first business day after this Agreement has been approved by the 
Liquidation Court and any appeal period has expired without an appeal being filed. 
2.7. 11Estate'1 means the liquidation estate of PrimeGuard Insurance Company. First 
Assured Warranty Corporation) lSourceAutoWarranty.com) Inc., and Warrantee Wise) Inc .• 
under the jurisdiction of the Liquidation Court. 
2.8. "Oklahoma Contract Holders" mean the Oklahoma residents with claims under 
Vehicle Service Contracts against First Assured Warranty Corporation and/or PrimeGuard 
Insurance Company. The Oklahoma Contract Holders are identified in Exhibit 3.1. 
2.9. "Liquidator" means J.P. Schmid4 Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii 
in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty 
Corporation, 1SourceAutoWarranty.coll4 Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc., including his 
successors in office, if any. 
2.10. "Liquidation Court" means the Circuit Court of the First Circuit, State of Hawaii, 
S.P. No. 05-1-0443 (RAN) with jurisdiction over the Estate and the insolvency proceedings of 
PrlmeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Wan·antee Wise, Inc. 
ARTICLE 3 RELEASE OF DEPOSIT AND PAYMENT OF CLAIMS 
3.1. Deposit Claims. The Deposit Claims are set forth, identified and calculated in 
Exhibit 3 .1, which claims were submitted to the Liquidation Court and approved by the 
Liquidation Court in its May 5, 2010 order. 
{008082361 I} 
Agreemenl for Release ofStatutoiy Dcpos!l in Oklahoma 
Page2 of7 3.2. Deposit. The amount of the Deposit is approximately $51>501.46 as of the 
Contract Date. As of the Contract Date, no payments or disbursements have been made from the 
Deposit. 
3.3. Transfer of Deposit to Liquidator, Within ten {10) business days after the 
Effective Date, the Commissioner will cause the Deposit to be transferred to the Liquidator in 
order for the Liquidator to disburse the funds from the Depoi;it pursuant to this Agreement. The 
Liquidator shall deliver wire or other transfer instructions to the Commissioner. To the extent 
any additional documentation is necessary in order to transfer the Deposit to the Liquidator1 the 
Commissioner and the Liquidator agree to execute such documents so long as such documents 
are reasonable and appropdate under the circumstances. 
3 .4. Liquidator Use of Deposit To Pay Deposit Claims. The Liquidator will cause the 
Deposit, plus any jnterest earned thereon, to be paid to the Oklahoma Contract Holders on a pro 
rata basis in accordance with Exhibit 3.1 as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of the 
funds from the Commissionel' and, if possible. by combining the payment with a payment of 
general assets to avoid multiple·mailings. In any event, the Liquidator will cause payments from 
the Deposit to be mailed to the holders of the Deposit Claims on or before December 1, 2010. 
3.5. Allocation of Deposit Balance to Genera} Assets. As indicated in Exhibit 3.1, the 
amount of the Deposit is sufficient to pay in full all claims of the Oklahoma Contract Holders 
and leaving a balance of$12,227.92. After the Deposjt has been paid pro rata to satisfy the 
Deposit Claims> the Liquidator shall deposit the amount of the balance with the Estate as a 
general asset and subject to distribution to all other creditors of the Estate in accordance with the 
Hawaii Liquidation Act. 
3.6. Report to the Commissioner. Ai or about the time the Deposit is paid to the 
Oklahoma Contract Holders, the Liquidator wiU report to the Commissioner the payment amount 
made to the Oklahoma Contract Holders. 
ARTICLE 4 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
4.l. Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed 
to be given if delivered by hand or if mailed by first class or certified mail, postage prepaid, or 
by postal or a commercial express delivery service which issues an individual delivery receipt to 
the address information below. While emails may be sent as copies in addition to the specific 
methods identified as satisfying notice requirements, emails. alone, are not sufficient. 
(00808236 / I } 4.1.1. Address information :f'or the Liquidator: 
First Assured Warranty Corporation -In Liquidation 
c/o State of Hawaii 
DCCA Insurance Division 
P.O. Box 3614 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96811 
Attn: Paul Yuen 
Phone: (808) 586-2790 
Fax: (808) 586-2806 · 
Agreement for Release of Statutory Deposit in Oklahoma 
Page3 of7 4.1.2. Address infonnation for the Commissioner 
Kelley Callahan 
Oklahoma Division of Insurance 
3625 NW 561h Street, Suite 100 
OkJahomaCity, OK 73112 
Phone: ( 405) 521 v2828 
Email: Kelley.callahan@oid.ok.gov 
4.1.3. Changes. Each Party shall be responsible for notifying> in writing, the 
other Parties promptly of any change in addressee or address. 
4.2. Liquidation Court Approval. This Agreement is subject to the approval of the 
Liquidation Court and wm not become effective until after the Liquidation Court has approved 
this Agreement and the appeal period for such order has expired without appeal. The Parties 
agree to take reasonabJe steps and work cooperatively to request and secure Liquidation Cou1t 
approval as soon as reasonable practicable after the Contract Date. 
4.3. Settlement and Compromise. This Agreement is a compromise resolution of 
disputed claims for the purpose of mitigating the costs, uncertainties, and burdens of resolving 
such dispute by means other than a settlement. This Agreement does not constitute an 
acknowledgment or admission in any way on the part of the Parties hereto. 
4.4. Cooperation in Implementing Settlement. The Parties shall cooperate in the 
pteparation and execution of any petitions, agreemen1s, orders, or other documents necessary to 
accomplish the terms, purposes and intent of this Agreement and consummating the transactions 
herein. 
4.5. Entire Understanding, Waiver and Modification. This Agreement contains the 
entire underst~ding among the Parties with respect to the matters described herein and 
supersedes all preexisting or simultaneous agreements> oral or written. No breach of any 
provision hereof can be waived unless in writing. Waiver of any one breach shall not be deemed 
to be a waiver of any other breach of the same or any other provision hereof. This Agreement 
may not be changed, modified or amended except by a written agreement executed by the 
Parties. 
4.6. Countetparts and Originals. This Agreement may be executed in any number of 
counterparts and by different Parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so 
executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall 
constitute one and the same document. 
4.7. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the 
benefit of, the Parties hereto, their successors-in-interest, hefrs, assigns, officers, employees, 
agents and representatives. 
{00808236/ l) 
Agreement for Reteaso ofStatutory Deposit in Oklahoma 
Page4 of7 4.8. No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement creates no third party beneficiaries 
and shall not create any rights or benefits that may be enforced by any persons not party to this 
Agreement. 
4.9. No Interpretation Against Drafter. Because each Party has had the opportunity to 
draft, review and edjt the language in this Agreement, no presumption for or against any Party 
arising out of the drafting of all or any part of this Agreement will be appHed in any action or 
other proceedings relating to, arising out of, or invoking this Agreement and each Party waives 
the benefit of any statute or rule of law providing otherwise. 
4.10. · Inclusion of Recitals, Definitions and Exhibits. The provisions in the Recitals and 
Definitions section of this Agreement are vaUd, binding and enforceable. The exhibits are 
incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in the text hereof. 
· [The remainder of this page is intentionally left blank.] 
{00808236 / I} AgTeement for Release of Sta1u1ory Dep~t In Oklfthoma 
Paga S of? IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement fol.' the Release of 
Statutory Deposit in Okl1l4oma on the dates indicated: 
THE LIQl!IDATOR: 
J.P. Schmidt, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii in his capacity as Liquidator of 
PdmeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
THE COMMISSIONER: 
Kim Holland 
Oklahoma Commissioner of Insurance 
By: _____________ _ 
Title: ________________ _ 
Date: ________________ _ 
{00808236 / I} 
Agreemenl tor R~lc~e ofSlutulory Dqiosll in Okll!l1oma 
P~g~6 of7 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement for the Release of 
Statutory Deposit in Oklahoma on the dates indicated: 
THE LIQl!lDATOR: 
J.P. Schmidt, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii in his capacity as Liquidator of 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWammty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
By: _____________ _ 
Title: ________________ _ 
Date: ________________ _ 
THE COMMISSIONER: 
Kim Holland 
Oklahoma Commissioner of Insurance 
{0080823H I} 
Agreement for Release of Statutory Deposit in Oklahoma 
PBg~6of7 Amendment to Agreement to the Release of Statutory Deposit in Oklahoma 
Involving 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, 
First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and 
W arrantee Wise, Inc. 
This Amendment to the Agreement to the Release of Statutory Deposit in 
Oklahoma (the "Agreement") is executed on the dates indicated below on the signature 
page. This Amendment is between and among the following Parties: · 
Liquidator: 
Gordon Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, in his capacity as 
"Liquidator" of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise, Inc.; and 
Insurance Commissioner: 
John D. Doak, Insurance Commissioner for the State of Oklahoma. 
RECITALS-
WHEREAS, the Liquidator and Commissioner entered into the Agreement on 
July 13, 2010 wherein the parties agreed to the release the statutory Deposit (as defined in 
the Agreement) to pay the Oklahoma Contract Holders (as defined in the Agreement), 
pursuant to the terms of said Agreement; 
WHEREAS, the parties now desire to amend the terms of the Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the covenants and 
agreements set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and 
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby mutually promise, 
covenant and agree as follows: 
1. Definitions. Unless inconsistent with or contrary to the context of the 
Agreement, the defined terms used in the Agreement shall have the same meanings in 
this Amendment. 
2. Paragraph 3.4. Paragraph 3.4 of the Agreement shall be amended to state 
as follows, with the amended language in bold: 
The Liquidator will cause the Deposit, plus any interest earned thereon, to be paid 
to the Oklahoma Contract Holders on a pro rata basis in accordance with Exhibit 
3.1 as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of the funds from the 
Commissioner and, if possible, by combining the payment with a-payment of-· · 
general assets to avoid multiple mailings. In any event, the Liquidator will cause payments from the Deposit to be mailed to the holders of the Deposit Claims on 
or before July 31, 2011. 
However, if any of the following events make it impossible for the Liquidator 
to mail payments to the holders of Deposit Claims on or before July 31, 2011, 
the Liquidator will use his best efforts to cause payments to be mailed to the 
holders of Deposit Claims as soon as practicable: 
(a) the Liquidation Court does not approve the Agreement; 
(b) the Liquidation Court approves the Agreement, and someone appeals the 
approval; or 
(c) if the Liquidation Court for any other reason beyond the control of the 
Liquidator, delays in entering an order or final judgment approving the 
Agreement. 
3. No Further Amendment. Except as amended herein, the Agreement 
remains unamended and unaltered and in full force and effect. 
4. Counterparts; Facsimile Signature. This Amendment may be executed in 
several counterparts, or by facsimile (telecopy} copies, each of which shall be deemed an 
original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, binding on both 
parties hereto, notwithstanding that both of the parties are not signatory to the original or 
the same counterparts. All of such counterpart signature pages shall be read as though 
one, and they shall have the same force and effect as though all of the signers had signed 
a single signature page. If any party signs by means of facsimile (telecopy) copy, such 
facsimile (telecopy) copy shall be deemed to be an original and effective as of the time 
and date of such signing, and the signer agrees to promptly forward to the other party the 
signed original hereof. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this 
Amendment. 
The Liquidator: 
Gordon Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 1n his capacity as 
"Liquidator" of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
I SourceAuto W~om, fuc. and Warrantee Wise, fuc. 
By: i2: (Jg Q 
Name: Gordon Ito 
Title: Insurance Comnissioner of the State of Hawaii 
Date: August 3,. 2011 
2 Date: __ 9__._\ l_\ \_,__l_f _____ _ 
Insurance Commissioner: 
JohnD. Doak 
Insurance Commissioner for the State of Oklahoma. 
By: ~~f .2~~ 
Name: :Iol \ L.Sevv.~r . ~ 
Oe .. e ~ ~t>v\.\ 'M\ £ ~ l l:N\ e(' 0 ~ +:\, (\OMQSL.. 
Date:----'~=-->-\...;._\ \-'--'l'--'-\....:....l _____ _ Title: EXHIBIT E •,", :-. .. .-: ··:·::::··:: ;. ::.: ... ; .:.. ·"· ... : .. , : ::~· :::;. :" :· ... :::. :}:· 
;,':;: : . :;.:,:::,:;.: .. ,: \''• · .. ::: ::.::::·'"<;:.(-:}'' •· ... ... . .. :: :": ·.·,·: ... '::.:::::'·" ,'..,' ·::.:.;;:j\ .. >-::.':'.'(/;t:::;::- .. ::;.:;·i:f •:-:;::::::. 
,~;, ~c ,.~:.' ·~.#9~iii~ .;~;.[;> , ,; ! ·~ f ';i·.: '.~.: £1'.; ,;, ·~:·1
;.~!i~~:l0· ,, ': ', '; ~ff'·\ d};,Ji,;; ''. ,·' 
· ·· •. ; ... · .... -:: .. : .. Goi;dOii l It.o, ~~. COri:nriiS~aner of-the.~ of Hawaii inbis c,B.pacitj a8 Liquidafui of ',:·: :, ": 
~-·: .. :··. \ : 
. ·· .. : 
~·" .... 
·:·· 
;'.•· ',:·:·:.::!-'' 
.. '•t'' 
:-;;/.·)· ;:':--· _.: .. :._.,:: . .. ::'.>:: 
.·:.;: :/ ::;: .... . ,• .·' ... · ... ::: . .' ·:=~·: ~' ·.: ·.:. ;: ·. : •. :-.•. . .· .· ··: ; ·._'. = ... · ... :, .. ;: ... 
;·;·" ?· • . . ::.; .·:."'::; .. ; .. , ... ·:· Nain:e: " Gc:iiaOri :r·. · :rto .. · ..... :. . :":. ·",,::::·:·\ :•":.;: .,. .. ':' ... ,.,,.;;.,: .. '""": 
'..::''.·: .. : ... ,: ... : .. ::~::·;.:·intte~·.:<<.£1~n~~n~~:ei~~~::·6~(~ .. ~~:.:~i:~:>·:,:;;"·· ... ··,•'·.· ·.:··:·· .. · -.· ...... · . ·.· . ,._ .. ·. .. .; :. :·.. . ... ·.. .':.... ...·•. ,. ' ·-:··." 
·:.··, ... •· • «:, · .. · ... .. -·. · '!\~.·, ..... : ... 2 ...... ·a·. ·.,·•.;··.··_':2.·. 0.1· .1·.·_ .. ..:: .. ·:· ""·: ... , .. i .. :; · . _.::;. . . . : !)~: :_,· ._: -~-~...;......; ...... _,;_,;"-"-_,;_,.;.;......._'_.""---' .. ..;....·. ''_· .... ~--: .. _·.---"'::· . ...;,:."~_ ... _;.:. ·_. _." .. ·· ..... ··.·:-:·:-, <·:, ···.·:.\·::::=:·:."··· 
.·:. 
'>, ·.:·:·· 
:-:·. 
· .... 
igsco:MMiss10~: 
:.·.:.; ; .· .. 
· .. · 
:·'.··. 
. :.·· ... .')~-~l~~rlqf\fL.~ 
·' Title: .... ....:. .. ._.;..QJE{.;:;a· · -~· --:" .. ~.th=.:" F:.-,: ,,........o:......;.·, ... .;...;;...· F.;....;> .. 5t.-.: · ~~<i>,;...,:::i.;;.;.~~, -.....· · ...__.;.;;..;;.· ··..;...;.;;· . 
· · ::P~e~.;_.::,·. ~· · ·_.·: ... -...:..;;·, ~· · .. ___ l __....::~'--·~ ....... -~--.. ta_._ .. :·:~·-: "·-____;,_. 
. "~ 
DOOumi:nt ID: 465934 1 AFS . . . . ' . . --:··,. .: : ·.· ·:-< "·' . ·.·. 
,;····. · ........ ··.::··/·• 
·· .. · .. · .· . ···:.' . 
..; .: :· "·:' 
. .... :··· ··.·.::::··f 
"· .::::-;· ... :::-.:. 
·" .. · ·.· .. 
. ·· .... · ... ·. ·.··. ·:· 
. · ... · ·.~·· . EXHIBIT F -$.• 
Agreement for the Release of Statutory Deposit in Virginia 
Involving 
· PrimeGuard pisurance Company, 
First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSoutceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and 
W arrantee Wise, Inc. 
This Agrt:ement for the Release ·Of Statutory Deposit in Virginia ("Agreement") is 
executed on the dates indicated below on the signature page. This Agreement is between and 
among the following Parties: 
Liquidator: 
Gordon I. Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii ·in his capacity as 
"Liquidator'.' of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc.; and 
VDACS: 
Virginia Department of Agriculture and Const1ID.er Services, acting through its 
Comm.ission~r, Matthew J. Lohr. 
ARTICLE 1 RECITALS 
. . 
1.1. Pilrsuant to an Order of Liquidation dated December 19, 2005 and a Supplemental 
Order of Liquidation dated July 17,-2008, J.P. Schmidt, Insurance Comin.issioner of the State of 
Hawaii, 1 wal3 appointed as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured 
Warranty Corporation, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warran.tee Wise, Inc. 
1.2. As of the Contract Date, a Deposit is in existence in. the amount of approxim·ately 
$111,150.00 held by the. VDACS ptlrsuant to Virginia Code § 59.1'"437 .as a statutory deposit 
(11beposit11) specifically to assute faithful performance of its obligations to :Virginia Contract 
Holders. 
1.3. On May S, 2010, the Liquidation Court entered its Order Approving Liquidator's 
Motion for Approval of Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims, including a determination of 
the claim amounts for the Virginia Contract Holders. 
1.4. The putposes of this Agreement are (i) to con:firtn the Agreement as between the 
Liquidator and the VD ACS with respect to the release and payment of the Deposit; and (ii) to 
authorize release of the Deposit to the Liquidator in order to permit the Liquidator to pay the 
Deposit to the Virginia Contract Holders in accordance herewith. 
I. AGREEMENTS 
1 J.P. Schmidt has since been succeeded by Gordon I. Ito, who curtently serve~ as the Insurance C9mmissidner for 
· the State of Hawaii and was. appointed Liquidator of PrlmeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty · 
Cmpora:ti.on, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, :f?c. and Warrantee Wise, I:nc., by order of the Circuit Court ofth.e First 
Circuit of the State ofHawaii, dated August 17, 2010. 
Document ID: 475009 _l_AFS 
EXHIBIT F ( . 
• ...... •• •• ft ••• :i 
:I NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth in this 
Agreement, the Parties agree as follows: · 
ARTiCLE 2 DEFINITIONS 
Capitalized tenns when used in this Agreement and the Recitals shall have the meanings 
set forth below. As used throughout this Agreement, references to defined terms that are 
singular include the. plural and that are plural include the singular; as appropriate. 
/ 2.1. "Agreement" means this Agreement for the Release of Statutory Deposit in 
Virginia. 
. 2.2. . "Contract ~ate" means the date on which this 'Agreement has been signed by all 
·parties. 
2.3. "Deposit" means the proceeds of a letter of credit :filed with the Commissioner of 
VDACS pursuant to Virginia CoQ.e § 59.1-437 in favor of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the 
benefit of purchasers of extended service contracts in ·the approximate amount of $1ll,150.00 
being held by the VDACS for the benefit of the Virginia. Contract Holders. · · 
2.4. "Deposit Claims" means the total amount of all claims .of the Virginia. Contract 
Holders again'.st First Assured Warranty Corporation and/or PrimeGuatd Insurance Company. 
The Deposit Claims are identified in Exhibit 3 .1. 
2.5. "Effective Date" means the date on which this Agreement becomes effective. The 
"Effective bate11 will be.the first business day.after this Agreement has been approved by the 
Liquidation Court and any appeal period has expired without an appeal being filed. 
2.6. "Estate" means the liquidation estate of Pri:tn.eGuard Insurance Company, First 
·Assured Warranty Corporation, lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warraritee Wise, Inc., 
: . "under the jurisdiction of the Liquidation Court. . 
2.7. ·"Liquidator" mean~ Gordon I. Ito, Insuranqe Commissioner of the State o{Hawaii 
in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insuranqe Company, First Assured Warranty 
Corporation, lSoutceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee ·wise, Inc., including his 
successors in office, if any. 
2.8. "Liquidation.Court" means the Circuit Cottrt of the First Circuit; State of Hawaii, 
S.P. No. 05"'1-0443 (RAN) with jurisdiction over the Estate and the)Ii.scilvency proceedings of 
:PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured . ·warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWairanty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
2.9. 11VDACS11 means the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services,. 
acti:hg through its Commissioner, Matthew J. Lohr. 
2.10. "Virginia Contract Holders" mean the Virginia residents with claims against First 
Assured Warranty Corporation and/or PrimeGuard Insurance Company. The Virginia Contract 
· Holders are identified in Exhibit.3 .1. . . :·-. 
Document ID: 415009 _l_AFS ,. 
! 
i ARTICLE 3 RELEASE OF DEPOSIT AND PAYMENT OF CLAIMS 
3 .1. · Deposit Claims. The Deposit Claims are set forth, identified and calculated in 
Exhibit 3.1, which claims were submitted to the Liquidation Court and approved by the 
Liquidation Court in its May 5, 2010 order. 
3.2. Deposit. The amount of the Deposit 'is approximately $111,150.00 as of the 
Contract Date. As qf the Contract Date, no payments or disbursements have·been made from the 
.Deposit. 
3.3. Transfer of Deposit to Liquidator. Withln ten (10) busin.ess days. after the 
Effective bat~, the VDACS will cause the Deposit to be transferred to the Liquidator in order for 
the' Liquidator to disburse the funds :(Tom the Deposit pursuant to this Agreement. The 
Liquidator shall deliver wrre or other transfer instructions to the VbACS. To the extent any 
additional documentation is necessary in order to transfer the Deposit to the Liquidator, the OCA 
a:nd the Liquidator agree to execute such documents so long as such documents are reasonable 
and appropriate under the circumstances.· 
3.4.' Liquidator Use of Deposit To Pay Deposit Claims. The Liquidator will cause the 
Deposit, plus any interest earned thereon, to be paid to the Virginia Con.tract Holders on a pro 
ra:ta basiS in accordance with Exhibit 3 .1 ·as soon as reasonably practicable after rec~ipt of the 
funds from th~ VDACS and, if possible, by combining the pa~ent with a payment of general 
assets to ~void multiple .mailings. In a.'ny event, the Liquidator will cause payments from the 
Deposit to be mailed to the holders of the Deposit Claims on or before May 1, 2011. 
· 3.5. Virginia. Contract Holders Entitled to Share in General Assets. ·After the Dei)osit 
has been paid pro rata to satisfy partially tlie l;)eposit Claims, the Virginia Contra~t Holders shall 
still be entitled to ·share pro rata in the distribution of general assets of the Estate, so long as their 
pro rata recovery-from the Deposit and the general assets does not exceed the pro rata recovery 
. .of other creditors in the same priority class .of the Estate. 
3.6. Deposit Not a General Asset of the Estate. The Deposit is not a general asset of 
the Estate even after transfer of such Deposit from the VDACS to the Liquidator. The 
Liquidator agrees to maintain such funiJ,s in a separate bank account that is not commingied with 
general assets of the estate. The Liquidator agrees to hold such funds specially for the benefit of' 
the Virginia Contract Holders in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, reasonable admii:llstrative costs of mailing the Deposit payments 
to the Virginia Contract Holders may, in the Liquidator's discretion, and with notice to and the 
advance consent of the Commissioner of VD ACS as to amounts; be paid from the Deposit. By 
signing this Agreement' the Commissioner of VDACS agrees that ·the administrative costs of 
mailing the Deposit payments, up to and not exceeding the amount of $600.00 (Six hundred 
dollars) ma:y be paid out of the Deposit. This consent and authorization for the administrative 
costs of mailing shall be effective as of the Effective Date and shall remain valid for the period 
of one (1) year. 
. . . . . 
3.7. Report to the VDACS. At or about the time the Deposit is paid to the Virginia 
Contract Holders, the' Liquidator will report to the VDACS the: balance of the Deposit amount, 
· ·mcluding any interest earned thereon and any administrative expenses paid there from; and the 
payment amount made to the Virginia Contract Holders. 
Document ID: 475009_l_AFS · . •. AllTICLE 4 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
4.1. Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed 
·to be given if delivered by hand or if mailed by first class or certified mail, postage prepaid, or 
by postal or a commercial express delivery service which issues an individual delivery receipt to 
the address infortnation bel<;>w. Wbile emails may be sent as copies in addition to the specific 
methods identified as satisfying notice requirements, emails, alone, are not sufficient. 
4.1.1. Address information, for the Liquidator: 
First Assured Warranty Corporation -In Liquidation 
c/o State of Hawaii 
DCCA Insurance Division 
P..O. Box 3614 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96811 
Attn: Paul Yuen 
Phone: (808) 586-2790 
Fax: (808) 586-2806 
4.1.2. Address information for the VDACS 
Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Affairs 
c/o J. Michael Wright, Manager 
Reglilatory Progr~s Unit 
Office of Consumer Affairs · ' 
P.O. Box 1163 
Richmond, VA 23218 
Phone: (804) 225-3924 
Fax: (804) 225-2666 
Email: michael.wright@vdacs.virginia.gov . ./ 
. 4.1.3. Change~. Bach Party shall be responsible for notlfying, in writing, the 
other Parties promptly of any change in addressee or address. 
4.2. Liquidation Court Approval. This Agreement is subject to the approval of the 
. Liquidation Court and will not become effective until after the Liquidation Court has approved 
this Agreement and the appeal period for such order has expired without appeal. The Parties 
agree to take reasonable steps and work cooperatively to request and secure Liquidation Cotlrt · 
approva1 as soon as reasonable practicable after the Contract Date. Among other things the 
Liquidation Court approval must include language confirming that the Deposit is not a general 
asset of the Estate and that the Deposit and its proceeds may only be paid to the Virginia 
Contract Holders and the Liquidator for reasonable administrative costs of mailing as provided 
for ·herein. 
4.3. Settlement and Compromis~. This Agreement is a compromise resolution of 
· disputed claims for the purpose of mitigating the costs, uncertainties, ... and burdens of resolving 
· such dispute by means otlier th~ a settlement. This Agreement ·does not constitute an 
. acknowledgment or admission in any way on the part of the Parties hereto. 
Document ID: 475009 _l_AFS 4.4. Cooperation in Implementing Settlement. The Parties shall cooperate in the 
preparation and execution of any petitions, agreements, orders, or other documents necessary to 
accomplish the terms, purposes and intent of this Agreement and consunn:tl.ating the transactions 
herein. 
4.5. Entire Understanding, Waiver and Modification. This' Agreement contains the 
. entire understanding among the Parties with respect to the matters described herein and 
supersedes all preexisting or simultaneous agreements, oral or written. No breach of any 
provision hereof can be waived unless in writing. Waiver of any one breach shall not be deemed 
to be a waiver of any other breach of the same or any othet provision hereof.· This Agreement 
may not be changed, modified or amended except by' a written agreement executed by the 
Parties. 
-4.6. Cotinterparts.and Originals. This Agreement may be executed in any number of 
counterparts and by different .Parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so 
executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall 
constitute one and the same document. · 
4.7. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the 
benefit of, the Parties hereto, their successors-in-interest, heirs, assigns, officers, employees, 
agents ·a:nd reptesentati\'res. 
4.8. No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement creates no third party beneficiaries 
and shall not create any rights or benefits that may be enforced by any persons not party to this 
Agreement. · · · 
4.9. No Interpretation Against Drafter. Because each Party has had the opportunity to· 
draft, review and edit the language in this Agreement, no presb.inption. for or against any Party 
arising out of the drafting of all or any part of this Agreement will be applied in any action or 
other proceedings relating to, arising out of, or invoklng this Agreement and each Parfy waives 
the ben¢fit of any statute or rule oflaw providing otherwise. 
4.10. Inclusion of Recitals, Definitions and Exhibits. The provisions in the Recitals and 
Definitions section of this Agreement are valid, binding and enforceable. The exhibits are 
incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in the text hereof. 
[The_ remainder of this page is intention.ally left blank.] 
Document ID: 475009 _l_AFS 1N W1TNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement for the Release of 
Statutory Deposit in Virginia on the dates indicated: 
THE LIQUIDATOR: 
Gordon I. Ito, Insurance Comrriissioner of the State of Hawa1i in his capacity as Liquidator of 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
ISourceAutoWarranty.com,-Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
Title: Liquidator of·PrimeGuard Insurance Co,, etal 
March 24, 20'11 
VIRGINIA..DEP ARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND CONSUMER SERVICES 
· Title: . · Commissioner 
Date: ?, , 2.1 .. --l f 
Exhibit 3 .1 ~Deposit Claims 
Document ID: 475009_1_AFS EXHIBIT G Amendment to Agreement to the Release of Statutory Deposit in Arizona 
involving 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, 
First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
ISourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and 
Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
This Amendment to the Agreement to the Release of Statutory Deposit in Arizona 
(the "Agreement") is executed on the dates indicated below on the signature page. Thi!! 
Amendment is between and among the following Parties: 
Liquidator:. 
Gordon Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, in his capacity as 
"Liquidator" of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise, Inc.; and 
Director: 
Christina Urias, Director ofinsurance for the State of Arizona. 
RECITALS 
WHEREAS, the Liquidator and Director entered into the Agreement on June 29, 
2010 wherein the parties agreed to the release the statutory Depo.~it (as defined in the 
Agreement) to pay the Arizona Contract Holders (as defined in the Agreement), pursuant 
to the tenns of said Agreement; 
WHEREAS, the parties now desire to amend the terms of the Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the covenants and 
agreements set fortli below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and 
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby mutually promise, 
covenant and agree as follows: 
1. Definitions. Unless inconsistent with or contrary to the context of the 
Agreement, the defined terms used in the Agreement shall have the same meanings in 
this Amendment. 
2. Paragraph 3.4. Paragraph 3.4 of the Agreement shall be amended to state 
as follows, with the amended language in bold: 
The Liquidator will cause the Deposit, plus any interest earned thereon, to be paid 
to the Arizona Contract Holders on a pro rata basis in accordance with Exhibit 3 .1 
as ~oon as reasonably :practicable after receipt of the funds from the Director and, 
if possible, by combining the payment with a payment of general assets to ~void 
multiple mailings. In any event, the Liquidator will cause payments from the 
Document ID: 471714_2_THY 
EXHIBIT G Deposit to be mailed to the holders of the Deposit Claims on or before June 30, 
2011. 
However, if any of the following events make it impossible for the Liquidator 
to mail payments to the holders of Deposit Claims on or before June 30, 2011, 
the Liquidator will use his best efforts to cause payments to be mailed to the 
holders of Deposit Claims as soon as practicable: 
(a) the Liquidation Court approves the Agreement, and someone appeals . 
the approval; or · 
(b) if the Liquidation Court for any other reason beyond the control of the 
Liquidator, delays in entering an order or final judgment approving the 
Agreement. 
3. No Further Amendment. Except as amended herein, the Agreement 
remains unamended and unaltered and in full force and effect. 
4. Counterparts; Facsimile Signature. This Amendment may be executed in 
several counterparts, or by facsimile (telecopy) copies, each of which shall be deemed an 
original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, binding on both 
parties hereto, notwithstanding that both of the parties are not signatory to.the original or 
the same counterparts. All of such counterpart signature pages shall be read as though 
one, and they shall have the same force and effect as though all of the ~igners had signed 
a single signature page. If any party signs by means of facsimile (telecopy) copy, such 
facsimile (telecopy) copy shall be deemed to be an original and effective as of the time 
and date of such signing, and the signer agrees to promptly forward to the other party the 
signed original hereof. 
IN WI1NESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this 
Amendment the day and year first above written. 
The Liquidator: 
Gordon Ito, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, in his capacity as 
"Liquidator" of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise, Inc. 
By: (?? m Q$(. 
Name: Gordon I.· Ito 
Title: Insurance Commissioner 
Date: January 19, 2011 
Document ID: 471714_2_THY ' •· 
The Director: 
Christina Urias 
Director of Insurance for the State of Arizona. 
By: £ ~ 
Name: Dean Ehler 
Title: Assistant Director 
.Date: 1/14/2011 
DocumcntID: 471714_2_THY EXHIBIT H ) 
/ 
KOBAYASHI SUGITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0 
BRUCE A. NAKAMURA 6518-0 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 9404-0 
First Hawaiian Center 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813 
Telephone No.: (808) 539-8700 
Attorneys for the Liquidator (]-.. / 
~~?"" :·.1· ... ~i~f~~-..:;..-!.o:fu~,~~-·· ............. . 
. . ;;~ . : . orrGoutm .· 
;OF}JtAWAll! · 
FILES' 
Wll MAR -8 AM (I: 42 
·,:. ···\ 
. ·:·:f~;~~.~ ' ·: 
... 
... : . 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
GORDON I. ITO, in his capacity as Insurance ) 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, ) 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMP ANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP., 
Respondent. ) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 RAN 
(Special Proceeding) 
ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S 
MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF USE OF 
FIRST CLASS MAIL REGARDING NOTICE 
OF MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
Heming: 
Date: March 2, 2011 
Time: 2: 15 p.m. 
Judge: Honorable Rhonda A. Nishimura 
ORDER GRANTING 
LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF USE OF FIRST CLASS 
MAIL REGARDING NOTICE OF MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DISTRIBUTION 
Petitioner Gordon I. Ito's, in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company,. Inc. ("PrimeGuard), Motion for Approval of Use of First Class Mail regarding Notice 
of Motion for Approval of Final Distribution came on for hearing before the Honorable Rhonda 
Document ID: 475810_1_AFS 
EXHIBIT H A. Nishimoto on January 11, 2011 at 2: 15 p.111. Anthony F. Suetsugu appeared on behalf of the 
Liquidator. No opposition was filed. 
The Comt having reviewed the Motion and attached memorandum, declaration and 
exhibits and having been apprised in the premises; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Liquidator's Motion for Approval of Use of First 
Class Mail regarding Notice of Motion for Approval of Final Distiibution is granted 
IT IS HEREBY FURTHER ORDERED that the Liquidator's Notice of Motion for 
Approval of Final Distribution, attached to the Motion as Exhibit "A," is approved and that said 
Notice may be issued pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat.,§ 431:15-324 via U.S. First Class mail. 
MAR -3 2011 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, March __ , 2011. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GORDON I. ITO, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii v. PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company, Inc.; S.P. No. 05-1-0443 RAN; ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR APPROVAL 
OF USE OF FIRST CLASS MAIL REGARDING NOTICE OF MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
Document ID: 4758IO_I_AFS 2 EXHIBIT I EXHIBIT I -Claimant Listing 
Filed Separately and Under Seal 
Pursuant to Order Granting Ex Parte Motion 
to File Creditor List Under Seal filed on September 6, 2006 EXHIBIT J EXIDBIT J -Claimant Listing 
Filed Separately and Under Seal 
Pursuant to Order Granting Ex Parte Motion 
to File Creditor List Under Seal filed on September 6, 2006 IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP., 
Respondent. ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM 
) (Special Proceeding) 
) 
) NOTICE OF HEARING AND 
) CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) _______________ .) 
NOTICE OF HEARING OF MOTION 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR: (1) 
APPROVAL TO AMEND RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FILED CLAIMS; AND (2) 
APPROVAL OF FINAL DISTRIBUTION, shall come on for hearing before the Honorable 
Rhonda A. Nishimura, Judge of the above-entitled Court, in her courtroom at Kaahumanu Hale, 
Ff_,~ • c :? Cf "j( 777 Punchbowl Street, Honolulu, Hawaii, on -~--_,L ____ , 2014, at _·_<2Am., , 
or as soon thereafter as counsel may be heard. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, January 16, 2014. 
WENDELL H. FUJI 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 
Attorneys for the Liquidator CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing notice of hearing will be 
posted on the following website: www.primeguard.hawaii.gov, on the date of filing. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, January 16, 2014. 
WENDELL H. FUJI 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 
Attorneys for the Liquidator 
2

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dcca/ins/ins_div_actions/primeguard/Wisconsin_Order.pdf) ---
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 	4222-0 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 	2950-0 
BRUCE NAKAMURA 	6518-0 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 9404-0 
First Hawaiian Center 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889 
Telephone: 539-8700 Isir CIRCUIT COURT 
SI-ATE OF HAWAII 
FILED 
2011 JUL 1 9 PM 3: 50 
N. A NAYA  
CLI 
Attorneys for Petitioner GORDON I. ITO 
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
GORDON I. ITO, in his capacity as Insurance ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 RAN 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 	 ) (Special Proceedings) 
) 
Petitioner, 	 ) ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S 
) MOTION FOR ORDER APPROVING 
vs. 	 ) LIQUIDATOR'S AGREEMENT WITH 
) INSURANCE COMMISSIONER OF 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, ) WISCONSIN 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP, 	 ) 
) 
Respondent. 	HEARING  
Date: July 13, 2011 
Time: 9:15 a.m. 
Judge: Honorable Rhonda A. Nishimura 
NO TRIAL DATE SET 
ORDER GRANTING 
LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR ORDER APPROVING 
LIQUIDATOR'S AGREEMENT WITH INSURANCE COMMISSIONER OF WISCONSIN 
Petitioner GORDON I. ITO' s, the Hawaii Insurance Commissioner in his capacity as 
Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
1SourceAutoWarranty.com , Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. (collectively, the "Liquidator"), 
Motion for Order Approving Liquidator's Agreement with Insurance Commissioner for 
701549-1 
I do hereby certify that tHs is a full, true, and 
correct copy of the original on file in this office. 
,‘,A. • 4....."21116D9L-
P1".t. 	 n _ 	 . Wisconsin ("Motion") ") came on for hearing before the Honorable Rhonda A. Nishimura on 
July 13, 2011 at 9:15 a.m. Anthony F. Suetsugu appeared on behalf of the Liquidator. No 
opposition was filed. 
The Court having reviewed the Motion and attached memorandum, declaration and 
exhibits and having been apprised in the premises; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Motion is GRANTED. 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Liquidator and the Wisconsin Commissioner are 
authorized to amend the date in section 3.4 of the Agreement without further approval from this 
Court. 
IT IS ALSO FURTHER ORDERED that future motions for Orders approving 
agreements for the release of statutory deposits in other states including Oklahoma and Louisiana 
shall be designated as non-hearing motions. 
'JUL 3. 8 2011 DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, 	  2011. 
RHONDA A. NISHIMURA 
JUDGE OF THE ABOVE ENtitWP-CoIJRT 
GORDON I. ITO, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii v. PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc.; 
S.P. No. 05 -1-0443 RAN; ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR ORDER APPROVING 
LIQUIDATOR'S AGREEMENT WITH INSURANCE COMMISSIONER OF WISCONSIN 
701549-1

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dcca/ins/ins_div_actions/primeguard/Order_Granting_Virginia_Agreement.pdf) ---
I do hereby cenify 
correct copy of th ull, true, ant 
le in this office, IsrCIRCUITCOUR1 STATE or flAW4li FILED 
2011 JUN 30 PM 3: 14 KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0 
BRUCE NAKAMURA 6518-0 
ANTHONY F. SUETSUGU 9404-0 
First Hawaiian Center 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889 
Telephone: 539-8700 TAMANANA 
Attorneys for Petitioner GORDON I. ITO 
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
GORDON I. ITO, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
VS. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP, 
Respondent.  S.P. No. 05-1-0443 RAN 
(Special Proceedings) 
ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S 
MOTION FOR ORDER APPROVING 
LIQUIDATOR'S AGREEMENT WITH THE 
VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF 
AGRICULTURE AND CONSUMER 
SERVICES COMMISSIONER AND TO 
SUBMIT ALL FUTURE MOTIONS FOR 
APPROVAL OF DEPOSIT RELEASE 
AGREEMENTS AS NON-HEARING 
MOTIONS 
HEARING 
Date: June 21, 2011 
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Judge: Honorable Rhonda A. Nishimura 
NO TRIAL DATE SET 
ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR 
ORDER APPROVING LIQUIDATOR'S AGREEMENT WITH 
THE VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND CONSUMER 
SERVICES COMMISSIONER AND TO SUBMIT ALL FUTURE MOTIONS FOR 
APPROVAL OF DEPOSIT RELEASE AGREEMENTS AS NON-HEARING MOTIONS  
Clerk, Cir 	ri, First Circuit Petitioner GORDON I. ITO' s in his capacity as Hawaii Insurance Commissioner and as 
Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company (collectively, the "Liquidator"), Motion for Order 
Approving Agreement With the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services 
Commissioner and to Submit all Future Motions for Approval of Deposit Release Agreements as 
Non-Hearing Motions ("Motion") came on for hearing before the Honorable Rhonda A. 
Nishimura on June 21, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Anthony F. Suetsugu appeared on behalf of the 
Liquidator. No opposition was filed. 
The Court having reviewed the Motion and attached memorandum, declaration and 
exhibits and having been apprised in the premises; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Motion is GRANTED as follows: 
1) Pursuant to the Agreement, the Deposit is not a general asset of the Estate. The 
Deposit and its proceeds may only be paid to the Virginia Contract Holders and the Liquidator 
for reasonable administrative costs of mailing. 
2) The Liquidator and the Virginia Commissioner are authorized to amend the date in 
section 3.4 of the Agreement without further approval from this Court. 
3) All future motions for Orders approving agreements for the release of statutory 
deposits shall be designated as non-hearing motions. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, 	JUN 2 9 211  , 2011. 
RHON DA A. NiSH11v 
JUDGE OF THE ABOVE ENTOLED COURT 
GORDON I. ITO, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii v. PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc.; 
S.P. No. 05-1-0443 RAN; ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR ORDER APPROVING LIQUIDATORS 
AGREEMENT WITH THE VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND CONSUMER SERVICES 
COMMISSIONER AND TO SUBMIT ALL FUTURE MOTIONS FOR APPROVAL OF DEPOSIT RELEASE 
AGREEMENTS AS NON-HEARING MOTIONS 
2

--- Text from PDF (https://cca.hawaii.gov/ins/files/2014/01/Notice_of_Hearing_050510.pdf) ---
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0 
LANSON K. KUP AU 5687-0 
First Hawaiian Center 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889 
Telephone: 539-8700 
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt 
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii 2010 -5 Pn 3: 29 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP, 
Respondent. ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 (RAN) 
) (Special Proceedings) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) NOTICE OF HEARING ON OBJECTIONS 
FROM CLAIMANTS; CERTIFICATE OF 
SERVICE 
HEARING 
Date: July 1, 2010 
Time: 9:30 a.m. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-) Judge: Honorable Rhonda Nishimura 
NOTICE OF HEARING 
Pursuant to HAW. REV. STAT.§ 431:15-329, J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as 
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii and Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company, in Liquidation, requested a hearing on claimants' objections to his previously 
issued Notices of Determination in the above entitled matter. 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that said objections shall come on for hearing 
before the Honorable Rhonda A. Nishimura, Judge of the above-entitled Court, in her 
Document ID: 464753_l_LKK courtroom at Kaahumanu Hale, 777 Punchbowl Street, Honolulu, Hawaii, on July 1, 2010, 
at 9:30 a.m., or as soon thereafter as counsel maybe heard. 
If you have any opposition to the Liquidator's Notice of Determination as well as 
any evidence to support your objection, you must file said opposition and supporting 
evidence with the above entitled court and serve a copy of same to the Liquidator's counsel 
identified herein not less than 8 days before the above stated hearing date pursuant to Rule 7 
of the Rules of the Circuit Courts. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, May£, 2010. 
Document ID: 464753_l_LKK ~~ ~~~ 
WENDELL H. FUJI 
LANSON K. KUP AU 
Attorneys for Plaintiff J.P. SCHMIDT, in 
his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of 
the State of Hawaii and Liquidator of 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, in 
Liquidation 
2 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
The undersigned hereby certifies that on the date of filing, a copy of the foregoing 
document will be mailed to each claimant or claimant's attorney, who are entitled to notice 
of the hearing as identified in Exhibits C-1 through C-5 attached to the Liquidator's Motion 
for Approval of Recommendations filed on March 17, 2010, via first class mail and posted 
on the following website: www.primeguard.hawaii.gov. 
-- DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, May ~ , 2010. 
Document ID: 464753_l_LKK ~~~ 
WENDELL H. FUJI 
LANSON K. KUP AU 
Attorneys for Plaintiff J.P. SCHMIDT, in 
his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of 
the State of Hawaii and Liquidator of 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, in 
Liquidation 
3

--- Text from PDF (https://cca.hawaii.gov/ins/files/2014/01/Order_Granting_Motion_for_Appvl-050510.pdf) ---
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0 
LANSON K. KUPAU 5687-0 
First Hawaiian Center 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889 
Telephone: 539-8700 
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt 
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii ZOIO -5 
H. CHING .----CLERK 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMP ANY, 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP, 
Respondent. ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 (RAN) 
) (Special Proceedings) 
) 
) 
) 
) ) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S 
MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF 
RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FILED 
CLAIMS 
HEARING 
Date: April 27, 2010 
Time: 10:00 a.m. 
Judge: Hon. Rhonda A. Nishimura 
NO TRIAL DA TE SET 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
ORDER GRANTING LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR 
APPROVAL OF RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FILED CLAIMS 
Petitioner J.P. Schmidt's, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii in his capacity 
as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. (collectively the "PrimeGuard 
Companies"), MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING FILED 
CLAIMS came on for hearing before the Honorable Rhonda A. Nishimoto on April 27, 2010 at 
Document ID: 464737 I LKK 10:00 a.m. Lanson K. Kupau appeared on behalf of the Liquidator. No opposition was filed. No 
other appearances were made. 
The Comi having reviewed the Motion and attached memorandum, declaration and 
exhibits and having been apprised in the premises; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Liquidator's Motion For Approval Of 
Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims is granted as follows: 
(i) A hearing is set for July 1, 2010 at 9:30 a.m. in the above referenced court, in 
accordance with the Liquidation Act in order to consider all objections identified in Exhibits C-1 
through C-5 of the motion; 
(ii) The claim amount and priority of all Class 2 claims (VSC claims) are established 
and confinned as set forth in Exhibit D of the motion; 
(iii) The priority but not amount of all Other Creditors (including Classes 3 through 9 
except for Class 7) are established and confinned as set forth in Exhibit E of the motion; 
(iv) The priority (but not amount) of all Class 7 Late Filed Claims are established and 
confirmed as set forth in Exhibit F of the motion; 
(v) The amount of claims for all creditors beyond Class 2, including claimants in 
Classes 3 through 9, are to be detennined only after such time as the Liquidator determines that 
sufficient assets will be available to distribute at the respective priority level. 
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, May __ , 2010. 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii v. PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company, Inc.; S.P. No. 05-1-0443 RAN; ORDER GRANTING Liquidator's Motion For Approval Of 
Recommendations Regarding Filed Claims 
Document ID: 464737_J_LKK

--- Text from PDF (https://cca.hawaii.gov/ins/files/2014/01/supplemental_liquidation_order.pdf) ---
KOBAYASHI, SU GITA & GODA 
WENDELL H. FUJI 
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 
LANSON K. KUP AU 
First Hawaiian Center 4222-0 
2950-0 
5687-0 
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889 
Telephone: 539-8700 
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt, 
in his capacity as Liquidator of 
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc. r1sr CIRf'H'T "'011R'T7 : \...tlA .... , v ) . 
;STi-\TE OF Ht~WMli -· 
FILED • 
2UOB JUL 17 11=22 
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT 
STATE OF HAWAII 
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance 
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, 
Petitioner, 
vs. ) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMP ANY, ) 
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP., FIRST ) 
ASSURED WARRANTY CORPORATION, ) 
1 SOURCEAUTOW ARRANTY.COM, INC. ) 
AND WARRANTEE WISE, INC. ) 
Respondents. ) ) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM 
(Special Proceeding) 
SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER OF 
LIQUIDATION 
Hearing 
Date: 
Time: 
Judge: July 7, 2008 
11:00 a.m. 
Victoria S. Marks 
SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER OF LIQUIDATION 
Petitioner J.P. Schmidt's, in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company, Inc. ("Liquidator") MOTION FOR LEA VE TO ADD FIRST ASSURED 
WARRANTY CORPORATION, lSOURCEAUTOWARRANTY.COM, INC. AND 
W ARRANTEE WISE, INC. AS RESPONDENTS AND PLACING THEM UNDER A 
SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER OF LIQUIDATION filed herein on May 22, 2008, ("Motion for Leave") came on for hearing before the Honorable Victoria S. Marks, on July 7, 2008, at 11 :00 
a.m. Jason M. Minami, Esq. appeared on behalf of the Petitioner. No opposition was filed and 
no appearance was made on behalf of Respondents. 
Based upon the Liquidator's showing, through the Motion for Leave, including the 
declaration and exhibits attached thereto, 
THE COURT HEREBY SPECIFICALLY FINDS AND ORDERS, JUDGES AND 
DECREES as follows: 
1. An Order of Liquidation was entered by this Court with respect to PrimeGuard Insurance 
Company on December 19, 2005. That Order of Liquidation remains in full force and effect and 
this Supplemental Order of Liquidation serves to supplement and work in conjunction with the 
existing Order of Liquidation. 
2. Under the December 19, 2007 Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases approved by 
this Court in an Order dated March 18, 2008 and approved by the United States Bankruptcy 
Court for the District of Colorado in Case No. 06-13669 ("Bankruptcy Court") on May 15, 2008, 
this Comi has sole and exclusive jurisdiction over First Assured Warranty Corporation ("First 
Assured"), lSourceAuotWarranty.com, Inc. ("lSource") and Warrantee Wise, Inc. ("Warrantee 
Wise") (collectively the "Companies") and the Companies shall be liquidated by the Liquidator 
under the Hawaii Insurers Supervision, Rehabilitation and Liquidation Act, Haw. Rev. Stat. § 
431:15-101 et seq. (the "Act"). 
3. Regardless of the date on which this Order is entered, this Supplemental Liquidation 
Order shall be effectively commencing immediately on May 30, 2008 (the "Dismissal Date"), 
which shall be the same date on which the Bankruptcy Court issues its order dismissing the First 
Assured Bankruptcy, Case No. 06-13669. 
2 4. First Assured, Warrantee Wise and 1 Source shall each be added as respondents in this 
action and the case caption shall be amended to reflect that modification. 
5. The Companies' business is ordered liquidated. The Insurance Commissioner of the 
State of Hawaii ("Commissioner"), and the Commissioner's successors in office, is appointed as 
Liquidator of the Companies. The Liquidator shall foiihwith take possession of the assets of the 
Companies and administer them under the general supervision of this Court. The Liquidator 
shall be vested by operation oflaw with title to all of the property, contracts, and rights of action 
and all of the books and records of the Companies, wherever located, as of the entry of the Order 
of Liquidation. The filing or recording of this Liquidation Order with the clerk of the Circuit 
Court of the First Judicial Circuit and at the Bureau of Conveyances shall impart the same notice 
as evidence of title. 
6. Upon issuance of this Supplemental Order of Liquidation and effective as of the 
Dismissal Date, the rights and liabilities of the Companies and of their creditors, policyholders, 
shareholders, members and all other persons interested in its estate are fixed, except as otherwise 
provided in Haw. Rev. Stat.§§ 431:15-308 and 431:15-327. 
7. In accordance with Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431: 15-307(e), the Liquidator shall provide 
accounting to the court on a quarterly basis. 
8. The Liquidator has all powers and authority as set forth in the Liquidation Act, including 
but not limited to, Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431: 15-310, which provides that the Liquidator shall have 
the power to: 
a. Appoint a special deputy to act for the Liquidator under the Act, and to determine the 
special deputy's reasonable compensation. The special deputy shall have all powers 
of the Liquidator granted by Haw. Rev. Stat. § 451: 15-310. The special deputy shall 
serve at the pleasure of the Liquidator. 
b. Employ employees and agents, legal counsel, actuaries, accountants, appraisers, 
3 consultants, and such other personnel as the Liquidator deems necessary to assist in 
the Liquidation. 
c. Fix the reasonable compensation of employees and agents, legal counsel, actuaries, 
accountants, appraisers and consultants, with the approval of the court. 
d. Pay reasonable compensation to persons appointed, and defray from the funds or 
assets of the Companies all expenses of taking possession of, conserving, conducting, 
liquidating, disposing of, or otherwise dealing with the business and property of the 
insurer. In the event that the property of the Companies does not contain sufficient 
cash or liquid assets to defray the costs incurred, the Commissioner may advance the 
costs so incurred from the assets of PrimeGuard Insurance Company and, if those are 
insufficient, then out of any appropriation for the maintenance of the insurance 
division. Any amounts so advanced for expenses of administration shall be repaid out 
of the first available moneys of the Companies. 
e. Hold hearings, subpoena witnesses to compel their attendance, administer oaths, 
examine any person under oath, and compel any party to subscribe to their testimony 
after it has been correctly reduced to writing, and in connection therewith require the 
production of any books, papers, records or other documents that the Liquidator 
deems relevant to the inquiry. 
f. Collect all debts and moneys due and claims belonging to the Companies, wherever 
located, and for this purpose to: (i) institute timely action in other jurisdictions, to 
forestall garnishment and attachment proceedings against such debts; (ii) do such 
other acts as are necessary or expedient to collect, conserve or protect its assets or 
property, including the power to sell, compound, compromise or assign debts for 
purposes of collection upon such terms and conditions as the Liquidator deems best; 
and (iii) pursue any creditor's remedies available to enforce its claims. 
g. Conduct public and private sales of the property of the Companies. 
h. Use assets of the estate of the Companies to transfer policy obligations to one or more 
solvent companies, if the transfer can be arranged without prejudice to applicable 
priorities under Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431: 15-332. 
1. Acquire, hypothecate, encumber, lease, improve, sell, transfer, abandon, or otherwise 
dispose of or deal with, any property of the Companies at its market value or upon 
such terms and conditions as are fair and reasonable. The Liquidator shall also have 
power to execute, acknowledge, and deliver any and all deeds, assignments, releases 
and other instruments necessary or proper to effectuate any sale of property or other 
transaction in connection with the liquidation. 
J. Borrow money on the security of the Companies' assets, or without security, and to 
execute and deliver all documents necessary to that transaction for the purpose of 
facilitating the liquidation. 
4 k. Enter into such contracts as are necessary to carry out the order to liquidate, and 
affirm or disavow any contracts to which the insurer is a party. 
1. Continue to prosecute and institute in the name of the Companies or in the 
Liquidator's own name any and all suits and other legal proceedings in this state and 
elsewhere, and abandon the prosecution of claims the Liquidator deems unprofitable 
to pursue further. If one or more of the Companies is dissolved under Haw. Rev. Stat. 
§ 431: 15-309, the Liquidator shall have the power to apply to any court in this state or 
elsewhere for leave to substitute the Liquidator therefore as plaintiff. 
m. Prosecute any action that may exist on behalf of the creditors, members, 
policyholders or shareholders of the Companies against any officer of the Companies 
or any other person, to the extent not released in the Settlement Agreement. 
n. Remove any or all records and property of the Companies to the offices of the 
Commissioner or to such other place as may be convenient for the purposes of 
efficient and orderly execution of the Liquidation. 
o. Deposit in one or more banks in this states such sums as are required for meeting 
current administration expense and dividend distributions. 
p. Invest all sums not currently needed, unless the court orders otherwise. 
q. File any necessary documents for recordation in the Bureau of Conveyances or other 
appropriate office or elsewhere where property of the Companies is located. 
r. Assert all defenses available to the Companies as against third persons, including 
statutes oflimitations, statutes of frauds, and the defense of usury. A waiver of any 
defense by the Companies after the petition for liquidation was filed shall not bind the 
Liquidator. 
s. Exercise and enforce all the rights, remedies, and powers of any creditor, shareholder, 
policyholder, or member, including any power to avoid any transfer or lien that may 
be given by the general law and that is not included with Haw. Rev. Stat. §§ 431: 15-
315 through 431 :15-317. 
t. Intervene in any proceeding wherever instituted that might lead to the appointment of 
a receiver or trustee, and act as the receiver or trustee whenever the appointment is 
offered. 
u. Enter into agreements with any receiver or commissioner of any other state relating to 
the rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation or dissolution of the Companies. 
v. Exercise all powers now held or hereafter conferred upon liquidators or receivers by 
5 the laws of this state not inconsistent with the Act. 
w. Do such other acts not specifically enumerated in this Supplemental Order of 
Liquidation and the Act, or otherwise provided for, as may be necessary or 
appropriate for the accomplishment of or in aid of the purpose of liquidation of the 
Companies. 
9. Pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat. §431:15-106, any officer, manager, director, trustee, owner, 
employee, or agent of the Companies, or any other persons with autho1ity over, or in charge of 
any segment of the Companies' affairs, shall cooperate with the Commissioner, Liquidator or 
receiver in this proceeding, related proceedings, and any investigation preliminary to this 
proceeding. The term "person" in this paragraph includes any person who exercises control 
directly or indirectly over activities of the Companies through any holding company or other 
affiliate of the insurer and includes, but is not limited to, all officers, managers, directors, 
trustees, owners, employees or agents of First Assured Warranty Corporation, 
lSourceAutoWarranty.com, and Warrantee Wise, Inc. The duty and obligation to cooperate 
shall include, but shall not be limited to the following: 
a. To reply promptly in writing to any inquiry from the Commissioner, Liquidator or 
receiver requesting such a reply. 
b. To make available and deliver to the Commissioner, Liquidator, or receiver any 
books, accounts, documents, or other records, or information or property of or 
pertaining to the Companies and in its possession, custody and control, including but 
not limited all funds that were, or should have been, held in separate trust accounts 
for the benefit of the Companies. 
c. Specifically, the banks set forth below shall cooperate with the Liquidator and 
receiver in order to facilitate the transfer of any assets being held for the benefit of the 
Companies, to the extent such transfers have not already occurred: 
10. No person shall obstruct or interfere with the Commissioner, Liquidator or receiver in the 
conduct of this delinquency proceeding or any investigation preliminary or incidental hereto. 
11. Pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431: 15-105, the following injunctions and restraining 
orders are entered and the Liquidator may seek further injunctions, restraining orders and orders 
6 as necessary and proper under the Act. Application of these injunctions includes, but is not 
limited to, all persons identified in Paragraph 9 of this Liquidation Order. 
a. The Companies are enjoined and restrained from the transaction of further business. 
The Companies are hereby enjoined from issuing any warranties that identify 
PrimeGuard as an insurer of such warranties. 
b. No property belonging to the Companies may be transferred without the express 
written approval of the Liquidator and/or the receiver. 
c. Interference with the Liquidator or receiver or with this proceeding is prohibited. 
d. Waste of the Companies' assets is prohibited. 
e. Dissipation and transfer of bank accounts is prohibited, except as expressly provided 
for herein or as designated by the Liquidator or receiver. 
f. With the exception of actions brought or expressly approved by the Liquidator, the 
institution or further prosecution of any actions or proceedings against the Companies 
is prohibited. 
g. The obtaining of preferences, judgments, attachments, garnishments, or liens against 
the Companies is prohibited. 
h. The levying of execution against the Companies is prohibited. 
1. The making of any sale or deed for nonpayment of taxes or assessments that would 
lessen the value of the assets of the Companies is prohibited. 
J. The withholding from the Liquidator or receiver of books, accounts, documents, or 
other records relating to the business of the Companies is prohibited. 
k. Any other threatened or contemplated action that might lessen the value of the 
Companies' assets or prejudice the rights of policyholders, creditors, or shareholders, 
or the administration of any proceeding under this article is prohibited. 
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, ~~~~~~~~~ JUL 17 
VICTORIA S. MARKS 
JUDGE OF THE ABO COURT 
JP. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, vs. 
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, INC., et al.; S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM; 
SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER OF LIQUIDATION 
7

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dcca/ins/ins_div_actions/primeguard/order_granting_partial_approval_of_liquidators_pet.pdf) ---
l• CFftl^'G
0C KKOBAYASHI, SUGITA & CODA
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0
CLIFFORD K. RIGA 2950-0
LANSON K. KUPAU
First Hawaiian Center5687-0	
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889
Telephone: 539-8700
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,
Petitioner,
Vs.
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY,
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP,
Respondent.S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
(Special Proceedings)
ORDER GRANTING IN PART
LIQUIDATOR'S PETITION FOR FINAL
ORDER AND JUDGMENT APPROVING
LIQUIDATOR'S SETTLEMENT WITH
SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND
AFFILIATES AND PETITION FOR GOOD
FAITH DETERMINATION OF
SETTLEMENT
HEARING
Date: March 5, 2008
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Judge: Hon. Victoria S. Marks
NO TRIAL DATE SET
ORDER GRANTING IN PART LIQUIDATOR'S PETITION FOR FINAL ORDER AND JUDGMENT
APPROVING LIQUIDATOR'S SETTLEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND
AFFILIATES AND PETITION FOR GOOD FAITH DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT
Petitioner J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of
Hawaii ("Petitioner") PETITION FOR FINAL ORDER AND JUDGMENT APPROVING
LIQUIDATOR'S SETTLEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND AFFILIATESAND PETITION FOR GOOD FAITH DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT, filed herein on
January 14, 2008, came on for hearing before the Honorable Victoria S. Marks on March 5, 2008
Lit 8:30 a.m. Lanson K. Kupau, Esq. and Joel A. Glover Esq. appeared on behalf of the
Petitioner, John Y. Yamano, Esq. appeared on behalf of First Assured Warranty Corporation and
ISourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Ray Galvan appeared pro se. No opposition was filed.
On March 6, 2008, a Stipulation for Limited Extension Related to Good Faith
Determination was filed that established March 19, 2008 as the deadline for BDO Seidman, LLP
("BDO"), Anton Collins Mitchell ("ACM"), and Aon Insurance Managers (USA) ("Aon") to file
a response and/or objection, if any, to the Liquidator's Petition for Good Determination of
Settlement (the "Stipulation").
The Court, having considered the Liquidator's Petition for Final Order and Judgment
Approving Liquidator's Settlement with Shareholders' Family and Affiliates and Petition for
Good Faith Determination of Settlement, the Memorandum in Support of Petition, the
Declaration of Special Deputy Liquidator Paul S.K. Yuen, Exhibit "A" - the Settlement
Agreement, the Notice of Hearing and Certificate of Service, the Stipulation, and being
otherwise fully advised in the premises, hereby FINDS AND ORDERS as follows:
1. The Liquidator's Petition for Final Order and Judgment Approving Liquidator's
Settlement with Shareholders' Family and Affiliates and Petition for Good Faith Determination
of Settlement (the "Petition") is granted in its entirety except as otherwise referenced herein.
2.	
The Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases ("Agreement"), attached as
Exhibit "A" to the Petition, is approved.
3.	
The Liquidator is authorized to implement the Agreement and to undertake all
actions contemplated by the Agreement, including but not limited to, the liquidation of First
Assured Warranty Corporation, ISourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. in
the PrimeGtuard Liquidation proceedings.
4. As applied to all persons and/or entities other than BDO, ACM and Aon, the
settlement detailed in the Agreement was entered into in good faith in accordance with Haw.
Rev. Stat. § 633-15.5 and all statutory conditions required thereunder have been satisfied.
25.	
The Court also finds that, pursuant to Haw. R. Civ. Pro., Rule 54(b), there is more
than one claim for relief still pending in this Special Proceeding and thus, there is no just reason
for delay in entering a final judgment as to the court's granting of the instant Motion.
6. 	Therefore, it further ordered and expressly directed, pursuant to Haw. R. Civ.
Pro., Rule 54(b) and 58, that this Order be entered as a final judgment.
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, _^"^	
2008.
JUDGE OF THE ABOVE-ENTITLED COURT
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND CONTENT:
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii v. Primeguard Insurance
Company, Inc., A Risk Retention Group, S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM; ORDER GRANTING IN PART
LIQUIDATOR'S PETITION FOR FINAL ORDER AND JUDGMENT APPROVING LIQUIDATOR'S
SETTLEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND AFFILIATES AND PETITION FOR GOOD FAITH
DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT
3

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dcca/ins/ins_div_actions/primeguard/order_granting_good_faith_determination_of_settlem.pdf) ---
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0
LANSON K. KUPAU
First Hawaiian Center5687-0e'LP 1: 08	
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889
Telephone: 539-8700
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,
Petitioner,
vs.
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY,
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP,
Respondent.S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
(Special Proceedings)
ORDER GRANTING PETITION FOR GOOD
FAITH DETERMINATION OF
SETTLEMENT AS TO ALL PARTIES
HEARING
Date: March 5, 2008
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Judge: Hon. Victoria S. Marks
NO TRIAL DATE SET
ORDER GRANTING PETITION FOR GOOD FAITH
DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT AS TO ALL PARTIES
Petitioner J.P. SCHMIDT' s,in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of
Hawaii ("Petitioner") PETITION FOR FINAL ORDER AND JUDGMENT APPROVING
LIQUIDATOR'S SETTLEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND AFFILIATES
AND PETITION FOR GOOD FAITH DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT, filed herein on
{00544400/I}January 14, 2008, came on for hearing before the Honorable Victoria S. Marks on March 5, 2008
at 8:30 a.m. Lanson K. Kupau, Esq. and Joel A. Glover Esq. appeared on behalf of the
Petitioner, John Y. Yamano, Esq. appeared on behalf of First Assured Warranty Corporation and
1SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Ray Galvan appeared pro se. No opposition was filed.
On March 6, 2008, a Stipulation for Limited Extension Related to Good Faith
Determination was filed that established March 19, 2008 as the deadline for BDO Seidman, LLP
("BDO"), Anton Collins Mitchell ("ACM"), and Aon Insurance Managers (USA) ("Aon") to file
a response and/or objection, if any, to the Liquidator's Petition for Good Determination of
Settlement.
In an Order dated March 18, 2008, this Court entered an Order approving the Settlement
Agreement and Mutual Releases ("Agreement") and also concluding that, as applied to all
persons and/or entities other than BDO, ACM and Aon, the settlement detailed in the Agreement
was entered into in good faith in accordance with Haw. Rev. Stat. § 663-15.5 and all statutory
conditions required thereunder had been satisfied.
No objection has been filed by BDO, ACM and Aon.
The Court, having considered the Liquidator's Petition for Final Order and Judgment
Approving Liquidator's Settlement with Shareholders' Family and Affiliates and Petition for
Good Faith Determination of Settlement, the Memorandum in Support of Petition, the
Declaration of Special Deputy Liquidator Paul S.K. Yuen, Exhibit "A" - the Settlement
Agreement, the Notice of Hearing and Certificate of Service, and being otherwise fully advised
in the premises, hereby FINDS AND ORDERS as follows:
1.	
As applied to BDO, ACM and Aon, the settlement detailed in the Agreement was
entered into in good faith in accordance with Haw. Rev. Stat. § 633-15.5 and all statutory
conditions required thereunder have been satisfied.
Page 2 of 3	
(00544400 / 1 }2.	
Pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat. § 633-15.5, this Court's Orders "bar any other joint
tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor,
except those based on a written indemnity agreement."
3.	
The Court also finds that, pursuant to Haw. R. Civ. Pro., Rule 54(b), there is more
than one claim for relief still pending in this Special Proceeding and thus, there is no just reason
for delay in entering a final judgment as to the court's granting of the instant Motion.
4.	
Therefore, it further ordered and expressly directed, pursuant to Haw. R. Civ.
Pro., Rule 54(b) and 58, that this Order be entered as a final judgment.
1iAR 5 `1 2008	
2008. DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii,
VICTORIA S. MARKS
JUDGE OF THE ABOVE-ENTITLED COURT
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND CONTENT:	
{00544400 / 1)
Page 3 of 3(l,

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dcca/ins/ins_div_actions/primeguard/final_judgment.pdf) ---
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0
LANSON K. KUPAU
First Hawaiian Center5687-0
	999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889
Telephone: 539-8700
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,
Petitioner,	
)
vs.	
)
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, )
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP,	
)
Respondent.	
)S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
(Special Proceedings)
FINAL JUDGMENT
[Re: Order Granting In Part Liquidator's
Petition For Final Order And Judgment
Approving Liquidator's Settlement With
Shareholders' Family And Affiliates And
Petition For Good Faith Determination Of
Settlement, filed March 18, 2008]
NO TRIAL DATE SET
FINAL JUDGMENT
Pursuant to the court's Order Granting In Part Liquidator's Petition For Final Order And
Judgment Approving Liquidator's Settlement With Shareholders' Family And Affiliates And
Petition For Good Faith Determination Of Settlement, filed March 18, 2008, and Rules 54(b) and
58 of the Hawaii Rules of Civil Procedure; and the Court having expressly determined that there
is no just reason for delay in the entry of a final judgment on said Order and the Court having
expressly directed the entry of a final judgment thereon;
THEREFORE, IT IS FINALLY ADJUDGED AND DECREED that the Order Granting
In Part Liquidator's Petition For Final Order And Judgment Approving Licuidatgg 's.Settlem .nt,With Shareholders' Family And Affiliates And Petition For Good Faith Determination Of
Settlement, filed herein on March 18, 2008 is a final judgment.
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii,	
1	
, 2008.11
J.P. Schmidt, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, v. Primeguard
Insurance Company, Inc., A Risk Retention Group, S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM; FINAL
JUDGMENT [Re: Order Granting In Part Liquidator's Petition For Final Order And Judgment
Approving Liquidator's Settlement With Shareholders' Family And Affiliates And Petition For
Good Faith Determination Of Settlement, filed March 18, 2008]
2

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dcca/ins/ins_div_actions/primeguard/final_judgment_all_parties.pdf) ---
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0
CLIFFORD K. RIGA 2950-0
LANSON K. KUPAU
First Hawaiian Center5687-009
	999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889
Telephone: 539-8700
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt
Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,
Petitioner,
vs.
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY,
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP,
Respondent.S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
(Special Proceedings)
FINAL JUDGMENT
[Re: Order Granting Petition For Good Faith
Determination Of Settlement as to all Parties,
filed April 1, 2008]
NO TRIAL DATE SET
FINAL JUDGMENT
Pursuant to the court's Order Granting Petition For Good Faith Determination Of
Settlement as to all Parties, filed April 1, 2008, and Rules 54(b) and 58 of the Hawaii Rules of
Civil Procedure; and the Court having expressly determined that there is no just reason for delay
in the entry of a final judgment on said Order and the Court having expressly directed the entry
of a final judgment thereon;
THEREFORE, IT IS FINALLY ADJUDGED AND DECREED that the Order Granting
Petition For Good Faith Determination Of Settlement as to all Parties, filed April 1, 2008 is a
r chi	
r 1o m7 _ ,	
f
final judgment.
433144 / LKK2008
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii,	
, 2008.
JUDGE OF THE ABOVE-ENTITLED COURT
J.P. Schmidt, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii, v. Primeguard
Insurance Company, Inc., A Risk Retention Group, S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM; FINAL	
JUDGMENT [Re: Order Granting Petition For Good Faith Determination Of Settlement as to all
Parties, filed April 1, 2008]
2

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dcca/ins/ins_div_actions/primeguard/motion_to_add_fawc_et_al_to_liquidation.pdf) ---
2,9
1-1. CHINE
CLERKKOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
WENDELL H. FUJI	
4222-0
CLIFFORD K. RIGA	
2950-0
LANSON K. KUPAU	
5687-0
First Hawaiian Center
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889
Telephone: 539-8700
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt,
in his capacity as Liquidator of
PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc.
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance	
)S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,	
) (Special Proceeding)
Petitioner,	
)LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
ADD FIRST ASSURED WARRANTY
vs.	
) CORPORATION,
ISOURCEAUTOWARRANTY.COM, INC.
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, ) AND WARRANTEE WISE, INC. AS
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP.,	
) RESPONDENTS; MEMORANDUM IN
SUPPORT OF MOTION; DECLARATION OF
Respondent.	
)LANSON K. KUPAU EXHIBITS "A" - "C";
NOTICE OF HEARING AND CERTIFICATE
OF SERVICE; PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL
ORDER OF LIQUIDATION
HEARING
Date:	
Z-i
Time: O; cook"
Judge: Victoria S. Marks
LIQUIDATOR'S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO ADD FIRST ASSURED
WARRANTY CORPORATION, I SOURCEAUTOWARRANTY.COM, INC.
AND WARRANTEE WISE, INC. AS RESPONDENTS AND PLACING THEM
UNDER A SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER OF LIQUIDATION
Petitioner J.P. Schmidt, in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company,
Inc. ("PrimeGuard"), by and through his attorneys, Kobayashi, Sugita & Goda, respectfully movesthis Honorable Court for an order granting him leave to add First Assured Warranty Corporation
("First Assured"), 1 SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. ("I Source") and Warrantee Wise, Inc.
("Warrantee Wise") ("First Assured, 1 Source and Warrantee Wise are collectively referred to as the
"Companies") as respondents in the underlying liquidation proceeding and placing them under a
Supplemental Order of Liquidation.
On December 19, 2005, this Honorable Court placed Primeguard into liquidation pursuant
to Chapter 431, Article 15 of the Hawaii Revised Statutes, entitled the Insurers Supervision,
Rehabilitation and Liquidation Act ("Liquidation Act").
Primeguard, and the Companies were under common ownership and control. Previously,
the Liquidator had filed motions seeking to add First Assured and 1 Source as respondents herein. In
response, on June 16, 2006, First Assured filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code ("First Assured Bankruptcy") in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
District of Colorado, Case No. 06-13669-MER ("Bankruptcy Court").
After extensive litigation in the Bankruptcy Court, dated December 19, 2007, PrimeGuard
entered into a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases with the Companies and others providing
for the Companies to be liquidated in this Court. This Court approved the Settlement Agreement in
an Order dated March 18, 2008. The Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the Settlement
Agreement dated May 15, 2008.
The Settlement Agreement is scheduled to close on May 28, 2008 and it is anticipated that
the Dismissal Notice for the First Assured Bankruptcy would be filed on or about May 28, 2008.
Upon receipt of the Dismissal Notice, the Bankruptcy Court will issue an order dismissing the First
Assured Bankruptcy which date shall be the Dismissal Date. Under the Settlement Agreement,
upon the Dismissal Date, the Liquidator is vested with all right, title interest to all of the property,
2contracts, and rights of action and all of the books and records of the Companies and this Court has
sole and exclusive jurisdiction to liquidate the Companies.
Upon receipt of the Bankruptcy Court's order dismissing the First Assured Bankruptcy, the
Liquidator will notify this Court and include an updated proposed Order that identifies the specific
date for the defined term "Dismissal Date."	
This Motion is made pursuant to Rules 7(b), 15(a) and 20(a) of the Hawaii Rules of Civil
Procedure and is supported by the attached Memorandum in Support of Motion, declaration,
exhibits, records and files herein.
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, May 21 , 2008.
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
WENDELL H. FUJI
LANSON K. KUPAU
Attorneys for Plaintiff J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity
as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance CompanyIN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance	
)S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,	
) (Special Proceeding)
Petitioner,	
)
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF MOTION
VS.	
) FOR LEAVE
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, )
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP.,	
)
Respondent.	
)
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR LEAVE
This memorandum is submitted in support of the Petitioner J.P. Schmidt's, in his capacity
as Liquidator ("Liquidator") of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Motion for Leave to Add First
Assured Warranty Corporation, 1 SourceAutoWarranty.Com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise, Inc. as
Respondents and Placing Them Under a Supplemental Order of Liquidation ("Motion for Leave").
The addition of First Assured Warranty Corporation ("First Assured"),
1 SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. ("1 Source") and Warrantee Wise, Inc. ("Warrantee Wise")
(collectively First Assured, 1 Source and Warrantee Wise are referred to as the "Companies") and
their liquidation under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of this Court under the Hawaii Insurers
Supervision Rehabilitation and Liquidation Act, 431:15-301 et seq. ("Liquidation Act") has been
agreed upon by the Liquidator and the Companies in the December 19, 2007 Settlement Agreement
and Mutual Releases ("Settlement Agreement"), approved by this Court and approved by the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Colorado, Case No. 06-13669-MER, with jurisdiction
over First Assured's voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (the `Bankruptcy
Court").THE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT EXPRESSLY REQUIRES THAT THE
COMPANIES BE LIQUIDATED IN THE PRIMEGUARD LIQUIDATION
PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE LIQUIDATION ACT.
Under the Settlement Agreement (Kupau Declaration, Exhibit A), the parties expressly
agreed that the First Assured bankruptcy be dismissed and that the Companies be liquidated in the
PrimeGuard Liquidation Proceeding under the Liquidation Act with such liquidation effective as of
the Dismissal Date. Sections 5.1, 5.2 and 5.5 of the Settlement Agreement (Kupau Declaration,
Exhibit A) provide as follows:	
5.1	
Upon receipt of the Dismissal Notice, the
Bankruptcy Court shall issue an order dismissing the First Assured
Bankruptcy (the "Dismissal Date"). As part of the dismissal of the
First Assured Bankruptcy, the Appeals and Adversary Proceedings
will also be dismissed.	
5.2	
Except as provided herein, upon the Dismissal Date
all properties of the estate in the First Assured Bankruptcy (the
"First Assured Estate"), including any and all assets of any type in
which First Assured has, asserts, or may assert an ownership
interest (to the extent not released herein), including but not
limited to all assets identified in any and all schedules filed by First
Assured as the Debtor in the First Assured Bankruptcy, shall be
transferred to the Liquidator at which time the Liquidator shall take
sole possession and ownership of the assets of First Assured and
administer them under the general supervision, and sole and
exclusive jurisdiction, of the Liquidation Court. The Liquidator
will be vested with the title to all of the property, contracts, and
rights of action and all of the books and records of First Assured,
wherever located, as of the Dismissal Date, in accordance with
Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-307 and the Hawaii Insurers Supervision
Rehabilitation and Liquidation Act, 431:15-301 et seq.
("Liquidation Act"). Consistent with this provision, the Parties
agree that (i) the Bankruptcy Court will have continuing	
jurisdiction over this Agreement and the First Assured Estate until
the Dismissal Date; and (ii) there will be no interruption or gap in
ownership and/or jurisdiction and that, immediately upon the
Dismissal Date, the Liquidation Court shall have sole and
exclusive jurisdiction over First Assured and the First Assured
Estate which shall be liquidated by the Liquidator under the
Liquidation Act under such terms and conditions as specified by
the Liquidation Court.
2	
5.5	
1 Source and Warrantee Wise will be liquidated in
the Liquidation Court along with First Assured. Upon the
Dismissal Date any and all assets of any type in which 1 Source and
Warrantee Wise have, assert, or may assert an ownership interest
(to the extent not released herein) shall be transferred to the
Liquidator at which time the Liquidator shall take sole possession
and ownership of the assets of 1 Source and Warrantee Wise and
administer them under the general supervision, and sole and
exclusive jurisdiction, of the Liquidation Court. The Liquidator
will be vested with the title to all of the property, contracts, and
rights of action and all of the books and records of 1 Source and
Warrantee Wise, wherever located, as of the Dismissal Date, in
accordance with Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-307 and the Liquidation
Act. Consistent with this provision, the Parties agree that there
will be no interruption or gap in ownership and/or jurisdiction and
that, immediately upon the Dismissal Date, the Liquidation Court
shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over 1 Source and
Warrantee Wise, which shall be liquidated by the Liquidator under
the Liquidation Act under such terms and conditions as specified
by the Liquidation Court.
II. THIS COURT AND THE BANKRUPTCY COURT HAVE ALREADY
APPROVED THE LIQUIDATION OF THE COMPANIES IN THE
PRIMEGUARD LIQUIDATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE LIQUIDATION
ACT.
This Court and the Bankruptcy Court have already approved the Settlement Agreement
which provides for the relief sought in the Motion for Leave.
Specifically, on March 18, 2008, this Court entered its Order Granting in Part Liquidator's
Petition for Final Order and Judgment Approving Liquidator's Settlement with Shareholders'
Family and Affiliates and Petition for Good Faith Determination of Settlement. (Kupau
Declaration, Exhibit B.) In that Order, this Court ruled, among other things, that:
2.	
The Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases
("Agreement"), attached as Exhibit "A" to the Petition, is approved.
3.	
The Liquidator is authorized to implement the
Agreement and to undertake all actions contemplated by the
Agreement, including but not limited to, the liquidation of FirstAssured Warranty Corporation, 1 SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc.,
and Warrantee Wise, Inc. in the PrimeGuard Liquidation
proceedings.
No person opposed the Liquidator's motion seeking such Order and the Order was never
appealed.
Moreover, on May 15, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court entered its Order Granting Motion for
Order Approving (I) Compromise of Controversy with the Insurance Commissioner for the State of
Hawaii; and (II) Conditional Dismissal of the Bankruptcy Case. (Kupau Declaration, Exhibit C.)
No person opposed the motion seeking such Order and no appeal of such order has been filed.
III. THE LIQUIDATION OF THE COMPANIES SHOULD BE EFFECTIVE AS OF
THE DISMISSAL DATE.
Sections 5.2 and 5.5 of the Settlement Agreement (Kupau Declaration, Exhibit A) provide
that the liquidation of the Companies shall be effective immediately upon the "Dismissal Date" so
that "there will be no interruption or gap in ownership and/or jurisdiction." The Dismissal Date is
defined as the date on which the Bankruptcy Court issues its order dismissing the First Assured
Bankruptcy, which order shall not be issued until after the parties file the "Dismissal Notice" with
the Bankruptcy Court which shall provide that all of the conditions and events for the Effective Date
addressed in Section 2 of the Settlement Agreement have occurred. It is anticipated that the
Dismissal Notice will be filed on or about May 28, 2008 and that the Dismissal Date will occur as
soon thereafter as possible. In order to ensure that there is no gap in ownership and jurisdiction, the
Proposed Order has been drafted so that it is effective as of the "Dismissal Date."
Upon receipt of the Bankruptcy Court's order dismissing the First Assured Bankruptcy, the
Liquidator will notify this Court and include an updated proposed Order that identifies the specific
date for the defined term "Dismissal Date."
4IV. CONCLUSION.
Based on the foregoing reasons as set forth above, the Liquidator respectfully requests
that this Honorable Court enter a Supplemental Order of Liquidation adding the Companies as
Respondents and placing them into liquidation. The provisions sought by the Liquidator are
authorized by the Liquidation Act and are set forth in the Proposed Order.
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, May Z , 2008.
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
CLIFFORD KAUG0
WENDELL H. FUJI
LANSON K. KUPAU
Attorneys for Plaintiff J.P. SCHMIDT,
in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard
Insurance Company, Inc.
5IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance	
)S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,	
) (Special Proceeding)
Petitioner,	
)
DECLARATION OF LANSON K. KUPAU
vs.	
)
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, )
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP.,	
)
Respondent.	
)
DECLARATION OF LANSON K. KUPAU
I, LANSON K. KUPAU, pursuant to Circuit Court Rule 7(g), declares as follows:
1. I am a partner with the law firm of Kobayashi, Sugita & Goda and one of the
attorneys for J.P. Schmidt, Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii. I am licensed to
practice law in all courts of the State of Hawaii and am competent to testify to the matters stated
herein, and make this declaration based upon facts of which I have personal knowledge.
2.	
Attached hereto as Exhibit "A" is a true and correct copy of the Settlement
Agreement and Mutual Releases dated December 19, 2007.
3.	
Attached hereto as Exhibit "B" is a true and correct copy of this Court's March
18, 2008 Order Granting in Part Liquidator's Petition for Final Order and Judgment Approving
Liquidator's Settlement with Shareholders' Family and Affiliates and Petition for Good Faith
Detennination of Settlement. To the best of my knowledge and belief, no person appeared to
oppose the motion seeking this Order and no person appealed the Order.
4.	
Attached hereto as Exhibit "C" is a true and correct copy of the May 15, 2008
Order Granting Motion for Order Approving (I) Compromise of Controversy with the InsuranceCommissioner for the State of Hawaii; and (II) Conditional Dismissal of the Bankruptcy Case
entered by the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Colorado in Case No. 06-13669
MER. To the best of my knowledge and belief no person appeared to oppose the motion seeking
such order and no person appealed such order.
I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, May	
l , 2008.
2EXHIITASETTLE , T AGREEMEN`T' AND MUTUAL RELEASES
This Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases ("Agresmeuf) is dated December 19,
2407, by and among the following parties (cailoWvely, the "Parties"): J.P. Schmidt, in his
capacities as Hawaii Insurance Commissioner annd as Liquidator of Pximp-Gh and Insurance
Company (collectively, the "Liquidator" ); Marcy ZYlorrison, Commissioner Of:[nsu M',B of the
State of Colorado, in her capacity as Ancillary Receiver ofPrhDGuard Insurance Company
("Ancillary Receiver'); Warrantee Wise, Ina. ("Warrantee Wise"); First Assured Warranty
Corporation ("First Assured'}, ISourceAutoWarranty.corn, Inc. {"1Source; and Ralph Holden,
Nancy Peina, F; Mitchell 11owell, Ronny Howell, Lisa. Holden, Amy Sandifer and 3oshua
Howell (collectively, the "Holden Family").
1. Recitals and•Definittans.
1.1	
PrimsG-uard hnsmance Company ("PrimeGuard") is a Hawaii domestic insurance
company licensed as a Ask retention group.
1.2 Warrantee Wise is a Colorado corporation and is a 99% owner ofPrimeGuard,
Warrantee Wise was engaged in the business of soling vehicle service contracts ("VSCs't) that
were insured by PrhneGuard.
1.3	
First Assured is a Colorado corporation with its principal place of business in
Colorado and is an affiliate of PrumGcard. First Assured was engaged in the business of selling
VSCs that were insured by PrimeGuard.
1.4	
1 Source is a Colorado corporation with its principal place of business in Colorado
and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of First Assured. 1 Source was ,engaged in the business of
selling V SC's that were insured by PrimeGuard.
1.5 Various members of the Holden Family have been involved as shareholders,
officers, directors, lenders, consultants and in the financing, control and/or operation of First
Assured., PrimeGuard, Warrantee Wise and/or 18ource.
1.5. On November 10, 2005, the Havra Insurance Commissioner ffi6d an ex parts
petition for seizure order in the Circuit Court of the First Circuit for the State of Hawaii
("Liquidation Coin'} and on November 14, 2005, the Liquidation. Court entered a seizure order,
which was amended on November 21, 2005 (the "Seime")t	
1.7	
On or aboutNovember 15, 2005, the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of
Colorado (the "Mrillary Receiver") commenced an ancillary proceeding to the PrimoGuard
Liquidation in the District Court, City and County of Denver, Colorado, captioned. Marcy
.I orrloon v. PrfineGuard Innwanae Company, .Inc., Case No. 05-CV9376 As "Anc'Ilary
proceeding").	
1.8	
On December 19, 2005, the Liquidation Court placed PrimeGuard undet an Order
of Liquidation ("PrimeGuard Liquidation").
{00501806/I)
EXHIBIT A1.9	
On June 16, 2006, First Assured fled a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code (``First Assured Banltsuptcy" in the United States Bardmptcy Court for the
District of Colorado, Case No. 06-13669 MER CBaakruptcy Court), First Assured is a debtor-
in-possession in the First Assured Bankruptcy.
1.10 In the First Assured Bankruptcy, First Assured has filed certain adversary
proceedings (collectively, the "Adversary Proceedings"), bearing the following adversary case
numbers: 06.1735-MER, 06-1736-WMR, 06-1737 MER. and 07-1351-MER. The defined phrase
„First Assured Bankruptcy" includes the "Adversary Proceedings."
1.11 In the First Assured Banlruptcy, First Assured made demand against Nanney Perna
and Ralph Hoiden for the return of transfers totaling, approximately $850,000 which: First
Assured alleged were avoidable as possible preferential, fraudulent or improper digbibutions.
Nancy Perna and Ralph Aolden both vigorously dispute such claims and have asserted numerous
defenses to such claims, including subsequent new value and solvency.
1.12 The Liquidators proceedings against First Assured are the subject of the
automatic stay pursuant to I1 U.S.C. § 362(x).
1.13 On or about June 22, 2006, the Liquidator filed its Motion for Relief from Stay
and Amended Motion to Dismiss, and subsequently filed its Motion to Excuse Turnover of
Property by a Custodian and Motion to Prohibit Use of Cash Collateral, which motions were
ruled on in Orders from the Bankruptcy Court dated March 6, 2007 and April 27, 2007, wh1oh
Orders are the subject of appeals pending in the United States District Court for the District of
Colorado ("Appeals").
1.14 In the First Assured"Bankruptcy, First Assured is in possession of certain cash	
totaling $394,120,87'as of July 31, 2007 ("Cash Collateral"), in which the Liquidator claims an
interest.
1.15 The Liquidator is currently in possession of approately $3.5 million, in which,
First Assured claims an interest.,
1.16 On or about July 3, 2007, the Par6egsought and obtained stays of the First
Assured Bm*xuptey, the Appeals and Adversary Proceedings in order to permit the Parties to
pursue settlement negotiations. On July 25, 2007, the Parties agreed that the negotiations were
being held in Hawaii at the request of PrimoGuard and as an accommodation by First Assured
and the Holden. Family, and that the attendance (in person or by telephorde conference call) at
such negotiations or the mere presence of persons attending such negotiations in the State of
14awaii shall in no event have any legal consequences including, without limitation, a deemed
waiver of or consent to jurisdiction, a contact sufflcientto establish jurisdiction, an admission of
liability, or an admission of any fact, whether express or implied, by any party attending the
negotiations, either in person or tbrough a representative. Tn addition, the Liquidator and his
{ooso^ ao6 t ^ ^
Settlement Agreerteen4
December IP, 2007
Page 2 01 19agents and representatives, agreed not to serve, attempt to serve or cause to be served any
process for any claim or action on the following individuals and entities wbile in Hawaii for
attendance at the settlement negotiatioris: (i) First Assured and its officers and director (ii)
1 SonceAuto Warrarz ty .com, (ii) Douglas Jessop, as counsel for First Assured, (iii) Josh. Howell,
personally or as shareholder of First Assured (iv) Sosb Howell, as representative or agent ofihe
shareholders of First Assured and Civ) Soso Howell as a representative or agent of Mph Holden.
The Parties have since engaged in settlement negotiations, including an in. person meeting in
Hawaii on My 26, 2007, which negotiations have culminated k this Agreement.
1.17 In order to minimize the cost: expanse and difficulty of proceeding with litigation
regarding the PrimeCluard Liquidation, the Seizure, the First Assured HanImiptcy, the Adversary
Proceedings and the Appeals, the Parties are willing to settle all issues an the terms and
conditions set forth below.
1.18 It is understood that the Parties` agreement to the terms hereof shall in no manner
be deemed to be a fact or an admission, express or implied, of liability or the nrerits •o£a petition
by any Party to any other person or entity, by anyparty hereto with respect to any matter, nor
shall the Parties' agreement to the terms hereof be deemed to constitute consent to jurisdiction in
the State of Hawaii, State of Colorado, or arty other forum or state.
Agreements
NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual agremnents, promises,
covenants, and releases herein set forth, and for other good and valuable consideration, the
sufl W 51 1cy of which is hereby conclusively acknowledged, it is hereby agreed by and among the
Parties as follows:
2,	
The Effective Date. The "Effective Date" shall be defined as the first business day upon
which all of the following conditions have been satisfied:
all Parties have signed this Agreement;
the Holden Payment shall have been made;
the Liquidation Court has entered its order(s)
(i) approving this Agreement and granting the petition for	
determination of Good Faith Settlement as described in Section 3.4
of this Agreement (the "Hawaii Approval Order(s)');
(ii) Thirty days (as computed in accordance with Hawaii Rules of Civil	
Procedure) have passed from entry of the Hawaii Approval
order(s); and
pasol806 ! 1)
settlement Agreement
Decembp,r 19, 2007
Pap 3 of 18I
i(iii) . The Hawaii Approval Order(s) shall not have been reversed or
modified on appeal and, if any such appeal is pending, the Hawaii
Approval Order(s) shall not have been stayed.
(d)	
the Banlrruptcy Court has entered its order:
approving this Agreement and authorizing tike dismissal of the
First Assured Bankruptcy after the Corm receives notice of the
E£iectlve Date (the " Bankruptcy Approval Order");
Ten days (as computed in accordance with Fed. R. Bankr. P. 9006)
shall have passed -from the entry of the Bankruptcy Approval
Order; and
(iii) The Banl ptcy Approval Order shall not have been reversed or
modified on appeal and, if any such appeal is pending, the
Bankruptcy Approval Order shall not have been stayed.
3.	
Actions Before the Effective Date,
3.1	
On or before the date that is the 3 CP day from the date that is the last date of
execution of this Agreement, the Holden Family will cause $150,000 (the "holden Paymenf'), as
referenced in § 2(b) of this Agreement, to be deposited into Fast Assured's eounsek's COLTAF
account (non-interest bearing).
3.2 Upon execution of this Agreement, First As=-,d shall immediately cease
prosecution of its Plan of Reorganization and Disclosure Statement dated October 16, 2006
3.3 Upon execution of this Agreement and if possible by December 28, 2007 and no
later than January 11, 2008, First Assured shall file and prosecute in good faith a motion (the
"Banlruptcy Motion's in the Bankruptcy Court disclosing the terms of this Agreement, and
seelcing authorization to dismiss the First Assured Badkruptcy conditioned upon the Bankruptcy
Court's.receipt of notice of the Effective Date (the "Dismissal Nofice'^. Pending the Bankruptay
Cool is ruling on the BaJalar ptey Motion, First Assured shaU take ho action inconsistent with the
terms or purposes of this Agreement. First Assured and theUquidator shall cooperate with the
preparation and distribution of the notice of the Bankruptcy Lotion, including the shared mailing
of such notice along with notice of the Hawaii Motion(s) (as defined below).
3.4 Upon execution of this Agreement and if possible by December 28, 2007 and no
later than Jmuary 11, 2008, the Liquidator shall file and prosecute in good faith a motion(s) in
the Liquidation Court (the Hawaii Motion(s)) disclosing the terms of this Agreement, seeking the
Liquidation Courts approval of the Agreement and seelcing an order for the determination of{i)
(U)
{oosaI ao6 t t}
Settlement Agreement
December 19, 2007
Page 4 of 18
E
sGood Faith Settlement, which shall include PximeGuards' release and dismissal of the Holden
Family, First Assured, 1 Source and Warrantee Wise, as set forth herein, as •co-obligors in,
accordance with -law. Rev. Stat. § 663-165. Pending the Liquidation Cog's roiling on the	
Hawaii Lotion(s), the Liquidator shall take no action inconsistent with the terms or purposes V.
Us Agreement. The Parties agree to cooperate in good faith in the preparation and filling of the
Hawaii Motion(s) and securing of such order(s), including the shared mailing of notices by First
Assured and the Liquidator.
3.5	
Contemporaneously with execution of this Agreement; First Assured, with the
Liquidator's input and approval, shall enter into an agreement with the Ancillary Receiver (the
"Ancillary Deposit Agreement"), -A copy of the Ancillary Deposit Agreement is attached hereto
as Exhibit 3.5. Pursuant to.tbe terms of the Ancillary Deposit Agreement,.First Assured and the
Ancillary-Receiver, -with the'Liquidator°s input and approval, will create are "Ancillary Deposit"
-which shall be funded by the Holden Payment. The AnciIlafy Deposit will- total One Hundred
Fifty Thousapd dollars ($150,000). Of that amount, One Hundred Forty norxsand dollars
($140,000) shall. be used to pay "Allowed Unsecured Txade Creditors" (as defined below') claims
on a pro rata basis as further specified in Section6 below. The remaining Teri Thousand Dollars
($10,000) shall be used to pay any expenses associated with the Ancillary Deposit Agreement or
the Ancillary Proceedings. Any remaining amounts of the Ancillary Deposit, after paying
expenses associated with the Ancillary Deposit Agreement ox the Ancillary Proceedings shall be
transferred by the Ancillary Receiver to the Liquidator. If the amount of surplus is not sufficient
to pay the costs incurred by the Ancillary Receiver associated with establishing, maintaining and
closing the Deposit Account, the Liquidator agrees to reimbwse the A.nciliary Receiver for such	
costs actually incurred, subj ect to-approval by the Liquidation Court. The Ancillary Deposit will	
be maintained by the Ancillary Receiver subject to the jurisdiction of the court with jurisdiction
over the Ancillary Proceedings and will be administered and liquidated in that proceeding in
accordance with Us Agreement and the Ancillary Deposit Agreement.
4. Deliverables on the Effective Date. On the Effective Date, or on the date indicated
below, and in connection with effecting and consummating the Effective Date, the following
events shall occur:	
4.1	
First Assured's counsel shall transfer the I.lolden Payment to the Ancillary	
Receiver. Upon the Dismissal Date. (as defined below in Section. 5. 1), the Holden Payment wilt
be the sole and exclusive property of the Ancillary Receiver maintained under the jurisdiction of
the Ancillary Proceeding in accordance with Colo. Rev. Stat. § 10-3-552 and the Colorado
Insurers' Rehabilitation and Liquidation Act, Colo> Rev. Stat § 10-3-501 at seg. and such fizzrds
will be distributed by the Ancillary Receiver under the terms of the Ancillary Deposit
Agreement.	
4.2	
Subject to Section 7 below, and on the date indicated, First Assured shall issue
payments from the Cash Collateral for the limited purpose of paying the following baz laWtcy
(00501sm /1)
Settlement Agreement
Demmbsr 19, 2007 f
Page 5 of 19I
iadministrative expenses, which are hereby deemed reasonab3e and appropriate, and the allowed
claims asserted by the IRS and other taxing authorities (the "Tax Claims"):
(i) On the Effective Date, Attorneys fees and costs which have
accrued as of November 30, 2007, in the approximate amount of
$280,000;
On or after the date of execution of this Agreemen, Notice agent
and U.S. Trustee fees and costs, currently estimated in the amount
of $85,000;
- -- -- (ii'}---Ors tlae-F fecti^e_Date,First Assured sa3aries which bave accrued
. as of November 30, 2007, in the amount of $130;000; and
(iv) (3n or after the date of execution of this Agmemerk Tans Cfaims
currently estimated in the amount of $10,000.
4.3	
Attorneys for the Parties shall execute and file the. Dismissal Notice with the
Banlauptcy Court which shall provide that all of the conditions and evmts set forth in Section 2
of this Agreernerit bave occurred,
5.•	
Baualrruptcy Court and Liquidation Court Procee fi in.gs.
5.1	
Upon receipt of the Dismissal Notice, the Ban rruptcy Court shall issue an order
dismissing the First Assuured Baunlaxuptcy (tbe `Dismissal Date?D. As part of the dismissal of the
First Assured Banicmptcy, the Appeals and Adversary Proceedings wlll also be dismissed.
5.2	
Except as provided herein, upon the Dismissal Date all. propexfiies of the estate in
the First Assured Bankruptcy (the "First Assured Estate), including any and all assets of any
type in which First Assured has, asserts, or may assert an ownership interest (to ft extent not
released herein), including but not limited to all assets ideptified in my and a31 schedules filed by
First Assured as the Debtor in the First Assured B anla uptcy, shall be transferred to ft
Liquidator at which time the Liquidator shall take sole possession and ownership of the assets of
First Assured and adrniruster therm under the general supervision, ancl-sole'and exclusive
jurisdiction, of the Ligtuidatidn"Court. The Liquidator will be vested with the title to all of the
property, contracts, and rights of action and all of the books and records of First Assured,
wherever located, as of the Dismissal Date, in accordance. with Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431.15-307 and
the IIawab Insurers Supervision R.ehabilitation and Liquidation Act, 431:1'5-301 at .req.
("Liquidation A.at"). Consistent with this provision, the Parties agree that (i) the BarilaWtay
Court will have coritinuing jurisdiction over this Agreement and the First Assured Estate until the
Dismissal Date; and (iii there will be no interruption or gap in ownership and/or jurisdiction and
that, immediately upon the Dismissal Date, the Liquidation Court shell have sole and exclusive
juurisdiotion over First Assured and the First Assumed Estate which shall be liquidated by the
(OQS018081 1)
settlement Agreement
Deoerber 19, 2407
Page 6 of IsLiquidator under the Liquidation Act under such terms azad conditions as specified by the
Liquidation Court.
53	
Subject to the'Liquidation Court`s approval of this Agreement; (i) all. First
Assured creditors with claims arising under vehicle service contracts and who have filed a proof
of claim in the First Assured Bankruptcy (" VSC Claim"), regardless of whether such clams have	
been filed in the PrimoGuard Liquidation, shall be treated as if such claims were timely fled on	
an appropriate proof of claim form in the PrimeGuard Liquidation; and (ii) the Liquidator shall
treat all such VSC Claims the same as similarly situated claims timely "filed with the Liquidator
or in the PrimeGuard Liquidation on proper forms.
5.4	
Subject to Section. 9.6 of this Agreemena First Assured and the Holden Family
will cooperate in good faith -with the Liquidator in seeldng such rulings as are consistent with this
Agreement and the administration and liquidation of First Assured in the Liquidation. Court.
5.5	
1 Source and Warrantee Wise will be liquidated in the Liquidation Court along
moth First Assured. Upon the Dismissal Date any and all assets of any type in which lSource
and Warrantee Wise have, assert, or may assert au ownership interest (to the extent not released
herein) shall be transferred to the Liquidator at which time the Liquidator shall talm sole	
possession and ownership of the assets of 1 Source and Warrantee Wise and"administer therm	
under the general sgpervision, and sole and exclusive jurisdiction, of the Liquidation Court. The,
Liquidator will be vested with the title to all of the property, contracts, and rights of action and
all of the books and records of 1 Source aad W arrantee Vase, wherever located, as of the
Dismissal Date, in accordance with Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-307 and the Liquidation Act,
Consistent with this provision, the P antes agree that there will be no interruption or gap in
ownership and/or jurisdiction and that, immediately upon the Dismissal Date, the Liquidation	
Court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over 1 Source and Warrantee Wise, which shall
be liquidated by the Liquidator under the Liquidation Act under such terms and conditions as
specified by the Liquidation Court.
5.6	
Subject to Section 9.6 of this Agreement, First Assured, I Source and Warrantee
Wise and the Holden Family will cooperate in good faith with the Liquidator in effecting the
transfer of any and all right, title aid interest to properties of 1 Source, Warrantee Wise and/or the
First Assured Estate, except as to those properties addressed herein, including assets of any type
or nature, including but not limited to causes of action, in which 1 Source, Warrantee Wise anchor
First Assured asserts a claim of ownership, including but not limited, to all assets identified by
First Assured in any and all property schedules filed with the Barahmiptcy Court and the proceeds
thereof,
53 Subject to Section 9.6 of this Agreement, First Assured, 1 Source, Warrantee Wise
and the Holden Family agree to cooperate in good faith regarding the liquidation of 1 Source and
Warrantee Wise in the Liquidation Court. First•Assured, ISource, Warrantee Wise and the
100501B0blI}
Settlement Agrearmant
Deeeibber 19,2-007
Page 7 of 19sHolden Fan-&7 agree not to commence bankruptcy proceedings regarding I Source and/or
Warrantee, Wise:
5.8	
Subject to Section 9 .6 of this Agre ement, the Liquidator will cooperate ingood.
faith with First Assured inseeking such rulings as are consistent with this Agreement and
effecting the payment of the banlcruptcy administrative expenses listed in Section 4,2 and Section
7.
6.	
Ancillary Proceedings and Trade Creditor Claims
6.1	
Pursuant to the Ancillary Deposit Agreement, the Ancillary Receiver shall
distribute one. Hundred and Forty Thousand Dollars ($140,000) of the Ancillary Deposit on a
pro-rata basis to the Allowed Unsecured Trade Creditors (as defined below) no later than 360
days after the Effective Date.
6.2	
"Allowed Unsecured Trade Creditors" shall be defined to mean those creditors
who filed a proof of claim in the First Assured Barsldaptuy Case asserting an unsecured claim
and whose claim is not a VSC Claim or a Tax Claim and whose claim is fisted on Exln'bit 1 to
the Ancillary Deposit Agreement, The Allowed Unsecured Trade Creditors shall receive the
pro-rata amount listed in the column labeled "Pro -rata Distri "bution" on Exldbit 1 to the Ancillary
Deposit Agreement,
63	
Certain creditors have tiled a proof of claim in the First Assured Bankruptcy that
is properly classif ied as a V'S C Claian, Such claims shall be addressed pursuant to Section 5.3
above and shall not receive any distribution from the Ancillary Deposit, Similarly, oertain trade
creditors have filed a proof of claim in the First Assured Eanla uptcy that is properly classified as
a secured claim, {,each, a "Secured Claim"}. All Secured Claims shalt be addressed in the
liquidation of First. Assured in the Liquidation Court as specified in Section 5 hereof.
7.	
Cash Collateral and Administrative Expenses. `
7.1	
Because the Cash Collateral is insufficient to pay all of the reasonable and
appropriate administrative expenses listed in Section 4.2, the existing Cash Collateral shall be
allocated by First Assured to pay such claims as follows:
(a) first to pay the Tai: Claims;
(b) second to pay the notice agent and U.S. Trustee fees and costs;
(c) third to pay fees and salaries of Patrick Gieifer; and
(d) fourth to pay, on a pro rata basis, attorneys fees and costs of 3essop & Co,
P.C. and fees and salaries of Robert Dungan.
1005010513} ,
Settlement Agreement
December 19, ?007
Page 8 of 181
I7.2	
To the extent that any of the, claim amounts set fort hinSection 4,2 are reduced or
otherwise satisfied, First Assured shall have the discretion to distribute jbe remainder from the
Cash Collateral to the other administrative expense claims identified herein, To the extcmt First
.Assured bas a surplus after the administrative expense claims identified in.§ 4.2 are paid, such
surplus shall be paid to the Liquida toron the Dismissal Date.
7.3	
If the Cash Collateral has been exhausted by payment of the administrative
expense claims idmtified in § 4.2, the sbortfali (i.e, the remaining unpaid reasonable and
appropriate administrative expense claims identified herein), including, but not limited. to, First
Assured's attorney' sfees and costs and salaries and costs accrued after November 30, 2007, if
any, shall be paid up to a maximum amount of $100,000, from the following two sources: first,
until six m onths after the Effective Date, the Liquidator will attempt to liquidate assets omrerdly
in the possession of the First Assured Estate and use the proceeds from such liquidation efforts to
pay any shortfall; second, inthe event those proceeds are insufficient to paysuch shortfall,. the
Liquidator shallpay such remaining balance within thirty (30) days of the ore-year anniversary
of the Effective Bate.
8.	
Mata2l Releases.
8.1	
Liquidator and AncilIM Receiver Release of Holden Faruily.
Effective upon the Ef'feot;ive Date, the Liquidator and Ancillary Receiver, for themselves
and their respective successors and assigns, each individually hereby releases, acquits, and
forever discharges the Holden Family, individually and collectively, their ) personal
representatives, heirs, assigns, and attorneys (solely in their capacity as attorneys for the Holden
Family and except as set forth below) of and from any and all injuries, actions, assessments,
claims, controversies, counterclah3as, cross-claims, third party claims, fourth party claims, (or
any other claims under Rule 14 of the Hawaii Rules of Civil Procedure, Colorado Rules of Civil
Procedure, or the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or rule similar thereto of any other
jurisdiction, and including without limitation claims for indemnity, contribution, subrogation,
and/or reimbursement), causes of action, suits, liabilities, demands, damages, losses, decrees,
awards, liens, disputes, costs, lost profits, loss of services, expenses, fees (including attomays'
and other professionals' fees), judgments and compensation:,Ykatsoever, in-law or in equity,
known or unknown, suspected -or unsuspected, asserted or unasserted, patent or latent, which
have been yr could have been brought, arising out of, incidental to, or in any way connected with
PrimeGuard, First Assured, Warrantee Wise, ISowm, or the comme'notment and/or
administration of the Pr ImeGuard Liquidation, the Ancillary Proceeding, the First Assured
Banlcruptcy, and the Seizure.
The release contemplated in this Section 8.I does not apply to Robert Dungan; however,
the releases set forth in Sections 8.3, 8.4 and 8.5 apply to Robert Dungan.
j0050180511)
Settlenm t. AgreemvDt
December 39, 2007
Page 9 of Is8.2	
Holden Family Release of Liquidator and Ancillary Receiver.
Effective upon the Effective Date, the Holden Family, individually and collectively, their
personal xepresentatives, heirs and assigns, hereby release, acquit, and forever. discharge the	
Liquidator, Ancillary Receiver, their respective suocessors, assigns, and attorneys (solely in their
capacity as attorneys for the Liquidator or Ancillary Receiver) of and from any and all injuries,
actions, assessments, claims, controversies, counterclaims, cross-claims, third party claims,
fourth party clam, (or auy other claims under Rule 14 of the Hawaii Rules of Civil Procedure,
Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure, or the Federal Rules of Cavil Procedure, or rule similar
thereto of any other jurisdiction, anal including without limitation claims for indemnity,	
contribution, subrogation, and/or reimbursernent), causes of action, suits, liabilities, demands,:
damages, losses, decrees, awards, liens, disputes, costs, lost profits, loss of services, expenses,
tees {including attorneys' and other professionals''ees), judgments and compensation
whatsoever, in law. or in equity, known or unlcmwn, suspected or unsuspected, asserted or
unasserted, patent or latent, which have been or could have been brought, arising out of,
incidental to, or in any way eonnectod with PrimeGuard, First Assured, Warrantee `Wise,
I Source, or the commencement and/or administration of the PrimeGuard Liquidation, the
Ancillary Proceeding, the First Assured Banlcruptcy, and the Seizure,
8.3	
First .Assured. ISource and Warrantee Wise Release ofS-Iolden Family and
Officers Directors and Professionals.
Effective upon the Effective Date, First Assured, I Source and Warrantee Vise,
collectively and individually, for itself, its officers, directors, partners, agents, affiliates.,
employees, successors and assigns, each hereby releases, acquits, and forever discharges the
Holden Family, and also the officers, directors and accountants, auditors and attorneys
(collectively, the "Professionals") of First Assured, 1Source and Warrantee Wise, respectively,
individually and collectively, their successors, personal representatives, heirs, assigns, and
attorneys of and from any and all injuries, actions, assessments, claims, controversies,
counterclaims, cross-claims, third-party claims, fourth party claims, (or any other claims under
Rule 14 of the :Hawaii Rules of Civil Procedure, Colorado Rules of Civil. Procedure, or the
Federal R-Oes of Civil Procedure, or rule similar thereto of any other jurisdiction, and including
without limitation claims for indemnity, contribution, subrogation, and/or reimbursement),
causes of action; suits, liabilities, demands, damages, losses, decrees, awards, liens, disputes,	
costs, lost profits, loss of services, expenses, fees (including attorneys' and other professionals'
fees), judgments and compensation whatsoever, in law or in etluity, Icnown or t nImown,
suspected or unsuspected, assertod or unasserted, patent or latent, which have been or could have
been brought, arising out of, incidental to, or in any way connected with Primp'Guard, First
Assured, Warrantee Wise, lSource, or the commencement and/or administration of the
PrimeGuard Liquidation, the Ancillary Proceeding, the First Assured Bankruptcy, and the
Seizure.
{OD5RI806li1
Settlement Agreement
December 19, 2007
Page 10 of Is4First Assured, ISource and Warrantee Wise each represents andvMrrants that it has
considered potential claims and causes of action against its own offimrs, directors and
Professionals and concluded that this settlement will minimize the cost, expense and dif culty of
proceeding with litigation against those individuals and or entities.	
-.-
First Assured represents and warrants that no material transactions that are not of record
occurred during the First Assured Bankruptcy. A material breach of this representation anal
warranty invalidates the release set forth in this Section 8.3 with respect to the officers, directors
and Professionals of First Assured for any conduct, actions or inactions related to the First
Assured Bankruptcy and occurring after May 15, 2006.
8.4 Holden Family Release of First Assured, I Source and Warrantee Wise.
Effective upon the Effective Date, the Holden Family, iumviriually and collectively, their
personal representatives, heirs and assign, hereby release, acquit, and forever discharge First
Assured, 1Source and Warrantee Wise, collectively and individually, its officers, directors,
partners, agents, affiliates, employees, successors, assigns, and attorneys (solely in their capacity
as attorneys for First Assured, 19 ource and/or Warrantee Wise) of and from -any acid all injuries,
actions, assessments, claims, controversies, counterclaims, cross-claims, third party claims,
fourth party claims, (or any other claims under Rule 14 of the Hawaii Rules of Civil. Procedure,
Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure, or the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or role similar	
thereto of any other jurisdiction, and including without lim itation claims for indemnity,
contribution, subrogation, and/or reimbursement), causes of action, suits, liabilities, demands,
damages, losses, decrees, awards, liens, disputes, costs, lost profits, loss of services, e4anses,
fees(including attorneys` and other professionals' fees), judgments and compemadon.
whatsoever, in law or in equity, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, asserted or
unasserted, patent or latent, which have been or could have been brought, arising out of,
incidental to, or in any way connected with Prlme;Guard, First Assured, Warrantee Wise,
1Source, or the commencement and/or administration of the PrimeCruard Liquidation, the
Ancillary Proceeding, the First Assured Bankruptcy, and the Seizure.
8.5	
Liquidator and. Ancillary Receiver Release ofFirs t, Assured, 1 Source and
Warrantee Wise Related to-Cormrtemins the 13anltrutatay.
Effective upan the Effective Date,'lhe Liquidator wad the Ancillary Receiver, for
themselves and their respective successors and assigns, each individually hereby releases,
acquits, and forever discharges First Assured,19ource and Warrantee W"rse, collectively and
individually, its officers, directors, partners, affiliates, employees, agents, successors, personal
representatives, assigns, and attorneys (solely in their capacity as attorneys for First Assured,
1Source anchor Warrantee Wise) of and from any and all injuries, actions, assessments. claims,
controversies, counterclaims, Bross -claims, third-party clal=, fourth-party claims, (or any other	
claims under Rule 14 of the Hawaii Rules of Civil Procedure, Colorado Rules of Civil
Procedure, or the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or rule similar thereto of any other
(00501806/1)
Settlement Agreement
December IR, 2007
Rage 11 of l $jurisdiction, and including.without limitation claims for indemnity, confribu ion, subrogation,
and/or raimburseu{ant), causes of action, suits, liabilities, demands, damages, losses, decrees,
awards, liens, disputes, costs, lost profits, loss of services, expenses, fees (including attorneys'
and other professionals` fees), judgments and compensation whatsoever, in law or in equity,
known or unk-novm, suspected or unsuspected, asserted or unasserted, patent or latent, based on
acts, conduct or omissions occurring on or after May 15, 2006 which have been or could have
been brought, arising out of, incidental to, or in any way connected with the eommencament
and/or administration of the First Assured Sanlauptcy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and
except for the administrative claims set forth its Section 4.2, the Liquidator reserves all rights to
object to and/or appase any claims asserted by First Assured, its officers and directors, their
successors, personal representatives, heirs and assigns against First Assured and/or Prim-,Guard
said the Liquidator,
8,6	
First Assured. 1Source, aDd Warrantee Wise Release of Liquidator and Ancillary
Receiver Related to the Seizure and Liquidation.
Effective upon the Effective Date, First Assured, /Source, and Warrantee Wise,
collectively and individually, each for itself, its officers, directors, partners, agents, affiliates,
employees, successors and assigns, hereby releases, acquits, and forever disoharges the
Liquidator and the Ancillary Receiver, their respective successors, assigns and attorneys (solely
in their capacity as attorneys for the Liquidator) of and from any and all injuries, actions,
assessments, claims, controversies, counterclaims, cross-claims, third party claims, fourth.-party
claims, (or any other claims under Rule 14 of the Hawaii. Rules of Civil Procedure, Colorado
Rules of Civil Procedzre, or the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or rule similar thareto of any
other jurisdiction, and including without limitation claims for indemnity, contribution,
subrogation, and/or reimbursement), causes of action, suits, liabilities, demands, damages, losses,
decrees, awards, liens, disputes, costs, lost profits, loss of services, expenses, fees (including
attorneys' and other professionals' fees), judgments and compensation whatsoever, in law or in
equity, Imown or unlmown, suspected or unsuspected, asserted or unasserted, patent or latent,
which have been or could have been brought, arising out of incidental to, or iu any way
con netted with the commencement and/or administration of the Seizure, the PrimeGua-rd
Liquidation and the Ancillary Proceeding.
The release in this Section 8.6 includes (but is not limited to) the release of any and all
claims to funds seized as part of the Seizure, which are also referenced in Section 1.15 of this
Agreement and are the subject of Adversary Proceeding 07-1351 -NMM
{00501 806 1 1 }
Settlezmnt Agreement
December 19, 2007
Page 12 of 188.7	
Persons Not Being Released by First Assured and the LigWdator and Ancillary
Receiver.
The Liquidator does not release and expressly reserves all rights, claims, actions and	
_
remedies that could be brought, asserted or maintaimd in the name ofPrimaGuard (except those
expressly released herein) including but not limited to pursuing claims and causes of action in
the name of Prime Guard against PrirraeGuard's officers, directors and Professionals. Further the
Liquidator reserves all rights to assert counterclaims and affirmative defenses against First
Assured, / Source and Warrantee Wise office"rs" directors and Professional, if those persons
assert claims against the Liquidator.
So there is no nnisunderstandiag, members of the Holden Family are being released
individually and in all -of their respective capacities, including but not limited to their capacity as
shareholders, officers and directors of any entity referenced herein,.
B.&	
Liquidator and Ancillary Receiver Aclrnowled^ent of Holden Family Release
by First Assured, 1Souroe and War wtae Wise.
The Liquidator and Ancillary Receiver each acknowledges and recognizes-that First
Assured, 1 Source and Warrantee Wise have executed releases for the Holden Family'and the
officers, directors and Professionals of First Assured, I Source and. Warrantee Wise as set forth '
herein. After the Effective pate, each will rely on the representation and warranty in Section 8.3
and recognize and continue to honor the releases for the Holden Family anal the officers,
directors and Professionals of First Assured, ISource and Warrantee Wise and wM not seep to
avoid those releases by direct or derivative claims.
8.9 Uniform Contribution Among Tortfeasors Act., Limitations on Persons
Discharged Hereunder.
This Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the Hawaii Uniform Contribution
Among Tortfeasors Act, Hawaii Revised Statutes § £63-11 et seq. This Agreement and the
Releases shall not release or discharge any, person other than the released parries, but shall reduce	
the aggregate of PrimeGuard's Claims and/or claims of First Assured, ISot7rce and Warrantee
Wise agaixtst all persons deemed to be the released parties' joint tord6asors (hareina:fter "Joint
Tortfeasors"), An individual claiin against a Joint Tortfeasor shall be reduced by the-5k-teat of
the pro rata share of liability of the Released Parties of Prl=G3zzard`s and/or First Assured's
and/or I Source's and/or Warrantee Wise's damages recaverable against all the Joint Tort%amrs
or by the amount of the consideration paid by the released parties, whichever is greater. The
calculation. of the dollar amount of the consideration to be allocated to the release of any
individual claim shall be based on the percentage value of that claim in relation to the aggregate
value of the claims of MmeGuard, First Assured, 1 Source and/or Warrantee Wise against the
Released Parties and the Joint Tortfeasor.
j00501806 / 1}
settle'Mmt Agreement
December 19, 2007
Page 13 of 189. Miscellaneous.
9.1	
Suspension of Interim Deadlines and Discovery. Upon execution oft his
Agreement, and until the earlier of (i) none 1, 2408, or such later date agreed upon by the Parties
reasonably under the circumstances or (ii) all. Parties agree.in writing that the Effective Date
conditions of this Agreement will not be satisfied or waived (the "Termination Date"), the Parties
shall cease further depositions and discovery under the First Assured Banlauptcy and the
Adversary Proceedings. Further, upon the execution and until such Terrnination Date the Parties
agree to suspend and waive any filing deadlines, existing between or among the parties to this
Agreement, for objections, motions, ballots, reports, statements, exhibits, lists, or the like in the
First Assured Barrlcruptcy or any of the Adversary Proceedings. The Parties shall request such
approval of this suspension and waiver as appropriate (but not as to non parties to this
Agreement).-
9,2 Return of Holden Payment.: In the event the Termination Date occurs as
described in Section 9.1 above, First Assured's counsel shall deliver the Holden Payment to the
Holden. Family.
9.3 Holden Payment and Hold Harmless Agreement. The parties agree to defend acrd	
hold harmless lessop & Company, P.C,, in its capacity as First Assured's counsel in connection
with the deposit of the Holden Payment so long as such payment is held consistent with the
terms of this Agreement. In the event of a dispute ooneerning the Holden Payment before the
Holden Payment is transferred under the Ancillary Deposit Agreement on the Dismissal Date,
First Assured's counsel may interplead the Holden. Payment to the Bankrvptoy Court.
9.4 Settlement of Disputed Claim. The Parties acknowledge that this Agreement is a
compromise resolution of disputed claims for the purpose of mitigating the costs, uncertainties,
and burdens of farther litigation and that this Agreement does not constitute an aclrnowledgment
or admission of liability in any way on the part of the Parties hereto, and that the Parties
expressly deny any liability or wrongdoing in connection with First Assured, PrimeGuard, the
Seizure, PrimeGuard Liquidation and First Assured Bankmptcy.
9.5	
Party Warrauties as to Reliance, Counsel. Authority, Approvals, Transfers.., Each
Party Viarrants and represents that, (a) each Party executed this Agreement of its own free will
and that no promise, representation, or inducement has been made or ofFored, except as set forth
herein, and that this Agreement is not executed in-reliance upon any statements c i r xopresentation
of any other Party or its representatives eoncerring any matter, including the nature and extent of
the injury, damages or legal liability therefore; (b) it has had the opportunity to review wft
counsel of its choice this Agreement to obtain independent legal advice with respect to the
advisability of executing this Agreement and to Wvesdgate the facts relating to this Agreement;
(c) it has full power, authority and legal right, on its own behalf and on behalf of its successors	
and assigns heretofore and hereafter, to exeouta, deliver and perform all actions required under
this Agreement; (d) any and all board, shareholder, contractual, or other requirements which may
taosgfBOS t ly
Settlement Agreement
December 19, 2007
Page 14 of 18be applicable to authorize the execution of this Agmerent have been met; and there have been
no transfers or assignments of any of the claims covered by the releases herein.	
9.6	
Choice of Law and Forum. This Agreement shall be'construed in accordance .
,Mth the laws of the State of T3awaii, the State of Colorado, and the Banlx6ptcy Code, where
applicable. The forum to resolve any controversy, claim or dispute arising out of or relating to
this Agreement, its enforcement or the breach thereof, shall be in the State of Hawaii or the State
of Colorado as appropriate, except that the Bankruptcy Court may serve as such a foram prior to
the dismissal of the First Assured Banlauptcy. The Holden Family objects to and does not
consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Hawaii over the Holden Family, including but not
limited to the jurisdiction of the Liquidation Court.	
9,7	
CaDDaTation. in Im-ol.ernenting Settlement the Parties and their respactlve
counsel shell cooperate in the preparahan-and execution of any petitions, agreements, orders, or
other documents necessary to accomplish the terms, purposes and intent of this Agreement and
consummating the transactions herein.
9.8 Entire Understanding, Waiver and Modificadon. This Agreement contains the
entire understanding among the Parties with respect to the matters described herein and
supersedes all preexisting or simultaneous agreements, oral or written. No breach of any
provision hereof can be waived unless in writing. Waiver of any one breach shall not be deemed
to be a waiver of any other breach of the same or any other provisions hereof, This Agreement
may not be changed, modified or amended uymept by a written agreement executed by the
Parties,
9.9 Counterparts and Orl&als. This Agreement maybe executed in any number of
counterparts and by different Parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so
executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original-and all of Which, taken together shall
constitute one-and the same document
9.10 Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon., and shall inure to the
benefit at the Parties hereto, their successors-in interest, heirs, assigns, officers, employees,
attorneys, agents, devisees, legatees, personal representatives, trustees, directors, members and
shareholders. .
9.11 No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement creates no third party beneficiaries
and shall not create any rights or benefits that may be enforced by any persons not party to this
Agreement.
1,12 No Tnte retation A ainst Drafter, Because each Party has had the opportunity to
draft, review and edit the language in this Agreement, no presumption for or against any Party
arising out of the drafting of all or any part of the Agreement will be applied in any action or
{oasa^sa^t F}
Settlement Agreement
December 19, 2007
Page 15 of 1sother proceading relating to, arising out of, or involdng this Agreement and each Party waives
the benafit of any statate or rule of law providing otherwise.
9.13 Inclusion of Recitals and Definitions, The provisions in the Recitals and
Definitions section of this Agreement are valid, binding and enforceable.
9.14 Costs and Pees. Each Party shall bear their own costs and fees,
[The remainder of this page is intentionally left blank.]
{flnso^ sos i ^ }
Settlement Agreement
December 19, D-007
Page 16 of ISIN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement on the dates
indicated,
3.P, Schmidt, in his capacities as Hawaii Insurance CoManissionex and as Liquidator of
PrimeGuard Insurance Company (collectively, 'L gaidator')	
• _ .
By:
Title` C;	
n' LSV v^k	
,	
-'Title
Date:	
2 7. {	
Date:
Marcy Morrison, Insurance Commissioner for the State of Colorado, in her capacity as Ancillary
Receiver of PrianeGuard Insurance Company ("Ancillary Receiver")
By;
Title:
Date,
First Assured Warranty Corporation, debtor in possession {°`First Assure(r"}
By:
Title:
Date:
Warrantee Wise, Inc. ("Warrantee Wise")
By:	
Title:
Date:
lSouiceAutoWauanty,Com, Inc. ("lSource'D
By:
Title:
Date:
{aosa^aa^ r tj
Settlement Agreement
1)emmber 19, 2007
Page 17 of 18IN WI NE&S "V^MRROF, thB undersigned have executed this Agreement on the dates
indicated.
I.P, Schmidt, im his capacities as Hawaii Insurance Commissioner and as Liquidator of
PrirmeGGard Insurance Company (collectively, "Liquidator"
'T'itle:
Date:	
.
Marcy Morrison, Insurance Comznissioner for the State of Colorado, inher capacity as Ancillary
Receiver of Prim aGvard hmurance -Company ("Ancillary Receiyer`D
By:	
1M iS
Title: t_"	
^^)
Date:____.__i
First Assured Warraztty Corporation, debtor in possessioi. ("First Assuredl }
By:
Title:
late:
Warrantee Wise, Inc. ("Warrantee Wise")
By:
Title:
Date:
ISousoeAutoWamanty.Coxn, Inc. ("I Source")
By:
Title.
Date:
(OD50180612)
Setdement Agreammt
December 19, 2047
Page 17 of 18(iIN Wa ESS WBERE 7F, the mdersigned Save ekeouted this Agreem enton the dates
iudxaatsd..	
• .	
.
S.F. Salmd^ in his capacities as Hawan Iusw nceCommissioner and as Liquidator of
FrimeCmu rcl hmiiance Company (coliecfively,"liquldatDe)
By.,
Title;
Date.
Maray Morrimn, Insarance'Canunissioner for ft-Staft of C6 orado, inher capacity as AuciTf au
Receiver of Rrl=Guard hkwmce Company V An6inaq Receiver`5
$y:
`Tide;	
•
Data
First Assured Warranty Corporation, debtor in possession C'First Assured D
Warrantee Wise, Ina. ('Warrantee Vzsa"}
$y:	
Tifle:	
Date:	
'
ISourceAutowaManty.Com, Inc. c°isoumen)
Dy:
Title:
Date:
PI)SOTEDS /2}
seulementAgreement
Dawmbar I9, 2007
Pap 17 of 18Tfie ^loldenaFn^:
uphaluldm °.Dat: 0..-
Nawy Puma
TatobA gGwpu
Rctm¢„^' bWe'^
rsy Saar
3osl;rmHQvft*aDab,-;
{DMISU6/2}
3acilem^A^raamextt
3^ezamber 28, ZDA7
Pate 78 ar l8
Zi1Di^j	
S E3 T 2 ^ HDI^lt	
E^J$B S17R I'd3 pt:$ LOitzlfl (ZTRalph HoldaK 151C7o3	
p,2
11
NRUOY Perna
Natehell iu
ox^xry• ^ te'^.
lAsa Holden.
Amy Sandifer
sosbua HowellData:
Date;
Date; .
Date:.
Date -
Date.
Date:
(OD5038061z)
	SettlemBut Agreumme
i7ac^ir&er 19,.2007
Page l B of 18SE'-13-Z02)4 B9.:3gF4 r^IM. ^:3036750401	
F.3r3
The Hold enPmmily,,t
Ralph H oMen
Mitchell l~ *=11,
Ronny NOW0ll
UOU Holden
A ny Sa)3d'
3Qshua iiDvvell	
Date,	
Date:
Date-	
Date:
Date-
Datz-
10001auat2}
Settlement Agrom=t
Decei;bar 19, ZOD7
Pnge It of 1 sDe-c 21 .2.007 3,, SSPM	
PLASERJ E7 FRX P.2
The Ha^dwtr Feznity:	
^
diary Par=	
33ate;
Ntahell Rowan Data.,
Ronny 1 OVriel -	
Da-;
Data,
Dates:
Date: bghUa Hcrv071
	s5la meut Agceesmma .
D=I- ber I9, 2W7
Fags It of I$fOOSU:so612}i12/24/20137 10:14	
720'	
1813	
ICL.ICK AUTa Ek ^,5	
- P9SE 02/02
The. Holden Family:
'PAph Holden
Nancy Pana
Mitchell HoweliDate:
Drtde:
Date:
Ronny'Howell	
Date:
Date:
Date.-
Date:Lisa Hold=
JOBSOISDUZ)
StOomsnkAgmemettt
Demmbax 19.2007
Page 18 of i8ANCILLARY DEPOSIT AGREE MENT
This Ancillary Deposit Agreement (this "Deposit Agreement") is entered into this
19th day of December, 2007, between and among First Assured Warranty Corporation
("First Assured") and Marcy Morrison, Commissioner of Insurance of the•S6.te of .
Colorado, in her 'Capacity as Ancillary. Receiver ofPrimeGuard Insurarim. -Company
("Ancillary Receiver").
1. RECITALS AND DEI{'=ONS
1.1. PrimeGuard '	
arrce Company ('TrimeGuard") is a Hawaii, domestic
insurance company licensed as a risk retention group.
1.2. First Assured is a Colorado corporation with its prc^cipal place of business
in Colorado and is are affiliate of PzimeGuard.. First Assured was engaged
in the business of sellingVehicle Service Contracts C'VgCs'% -and its
VSCs were insured by PrimeGuard.
1.3. On.Noverribm 10, 2005, J.P. Sebmidt, in his Capacities as Hawaii
Insurance Commissioner and as Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance
Company (the "Liquidator") Mod an ex pate petition for seizure order in
the Circuit Court of the First Circuit for the State of Hawaii ("Liquidation.
Court") and on November 14, 2005, the Liquidation Court entered a
seizure order, which was amended on November 21, 2005 (the "Seizure'.
1.4. On or about November 15, 2005, the Commissionei ofIrLsarance of the
State of Colorado commenced an ancillary proceeding to the PrimeGuard
Liquidation in the District Court, City and County of Denver, Colorado
(the "Ancillary Court"), captioned as Macy Morrison Y. Prl moGuard
Insurance CompaTx ,Ind., Case No. 05-CV-9376 (tbe "Ancillary
Proceeding")
1.5. On December 19, 2005, the Liquidation Court placed PrimeGuard under
an Order of Liquidation with a finding of insolvency (the "PriineGuard
Liquidation").
1.6. On June 16, 2006, First Assured tiled a Nroluotary petition under Chapter
11 of the Bankruptcy Code ("First Assured Bwakmptcy") in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Colorado, Case No. 06-13669-
MER ("BanLauptcy Court"). First Assured is a debtor•-in-possession in the
First Assured Bankcfiptey.
1.7. Dated December 7, 2007, First Assured, the Liquidator and certain other
parties, including Warrantee Wise, Inc. { Warrantee Wise"),
ISourceAutoWarranty.Com, Inc. C'lSource') and Ralph Holden, Nancy
Perna, Mitchell Howell, Ronny Howell, Lisa Holden; Any Sandifer, and
^0049i1873 / Y }
Ancillary Deposit Agreement
December 19, 2007
Page 1 -of 5Joshua Howell (collectively, the "Holden Family"), entered into a
Settlement Agreement (the "Settlement Agreement'). The terms of this
Deposit Agreement are specifically contemplated under the terms of the
Settlement Agreement and the Settlement Agreement is hereby
incorporated as if (ally set forth herein. To the extent of any inconsistency
between the terms of the Settlement Agreement and the terms of this
Deposit Agreement, the terms of the Settlement Agreement shall control.
1.8. Under the Settlement Agreement, the parties settled and resolved, all
pending litigation between them, including without limitation the Seizure,
the PrimeGu'd Liquidation and the Ancillary Proceeding.
1.9. Section 3.5 of the Settleme it Agreement pt-ovkdes that First Assured shall
deposit the sum of $150,000 in an accotant de ignated by the Ancillary
Receiver (the "Ancillary Deposit'). Section. 3.5 of the.Settleinent
Agreement Mher provides that the Ancillary Receiver shall,distribute
One Hundred Forty Thousand dollars ($140,000) of the Ancillary Deposit	
to "Trade Creditors" (as such term is defined in the Settlement
Agreement) and the remaining Ten Thousand Dollars •($10,000) shall be
used to pay any expenses associated with the Deposit Agreement or the
Ancillary Proceedings. Section 3.5 also provides that the Ancillary
Receiver may rely upon the information contained in. Exhibit 1 to this
Ancillary Deposit Agreement, and that the Ancillary Receiver will be held
harmless by the parties if the information listed on Exhibit 1 in incorrect.
1.10. The purpose of this Deposit Agreement is to set forth the terms and
conditions for (i) the distribution of the Ancillary Deposit and (ii) the
conclusion of the Ancillary Proceeding.
2, AGRERYMNTS
NOW TI-1EREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual agreements and
promises herein set forth and for other good and valuable consideration., the sufficiency
of which i shereby conclusively aclmowledged, it is hereby agreed by and amore j the' .
Parties as follows:
2.1. Establishment of Deposit Account
The Ancillary Receiver will cause an account designated and established by the
Ancillary Receiver in a bank located in Colorado (the "Deposit Account"), The Deposit
Account will operate so that deposits may be made by First Assured or any other person
authorized by the Ancillary Receiver bout withdrawals may be made only by the Ancillary
Receiver. The account shall be an asset under the control and direction of the Ancillary
Receiver maintained tinder the jurisdiction of the Ancillary Court in accordance with.
Colo. Rev. Stat. § 10-3-552.
{00444973 / 1)	
Ancillary Deposit Agreement
December 19, 2007
Page 2 of 52.2. Distribution to Trade Creditors
2.2.1. No later :than. 360 days af ter the Effective Date of the Settlement_..
Agreement (including First A.ssurefs Deposit of $150,000 in the	
Ancillary Deposit as set forth in Section 1.9' above), the Ancillary
Receiver shall distribute One Hundred Forty Thousaud.Dollars
($140,000) from the Deposit Account to the Trade Creditors (as
such terni is defined the Settlement Agreement) M " the amounts
and at the addresses listed on Exhibit 1 attached hereto. Such	
payments shall be sent by check using cardfied mail., return"
receipt requested.	
2.2.2. Prior to making the distributions set-forth in Section 2.2.1, the.,
Ancillary Receiver will seek approval from the Ancillary Court
and will have received a final, non.-appealable order from the
Ancillary Court approving such distributions.
2.3. Surplus and Interest Earned on Funds in Deposit Account
2.3.1. The Ancillary Receiver shall distribute Ten Thousand dollars of	
the Ancillary Deposit along with any interest earned on the
Ancillary Deposit to pay' any and all costs incurred by the
,Ancillary Receiver, or associated with establishing, maintaining
and closing "the Deposit Account. The xerr^ fining surplus after
such costs have been paid, if any, shall be paid to tine Liquidator,
after seeking and obtaining approval from the Ancillary Court.
2.3.2. If the amount of suzplus and interest is not sufficizat to pay the
costs incurred by the Ancillary Receiver associated v iih
establishing, maintaining and closing the Deposit Account, the
Liquidator agrees to reimburse the Ancillary Receiver for such
costs actually incurred, subject-to approval by the Liquidation
Court.
2.4. Ancillary Court Notice and. Approval "
2.4.1. Notice. The Ancillary Receiver shall file a copy of this Deposit
Agreement in the Ancillary Court and shall notify the Ancillary
Court: after teceiving the funds identified herein.
2.4.2. Approval.. Before making any payments Af the funds or	
otherwise disbursing such fand.s, the Ancillary Receiver shall
seek and receive approval from the Ancillary Count.
{OO490973 ! 13
Ancillary Deposit. -Agreement
December 19, 2,007
Page 3 Df S2.5. Scope of Ancillary Proceeding and Dismissal
2.5.1. ` Notwithstanding any provision set forth in Colo. Rev. Stat. § 10-
3-501, at seq., the scope of the Ancillary Proceeding and the
.authority of the Ancillary Receiver.shall be limited to the matters '.
addressed in this Deposit Agreement and the Ancillary Receiver
shall otherwise be sabjeatto the terms of the Settlement
Agreement.
2.5.2. Upon completion of the distribution of the Ancillary Deposit and
closing the Deposit Account the Ancillary Receiver shall file a
motion to dismiss the Ancillary Proceeding.
2.6. Choice of Law and Forum
This Deposit Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of Colorado. With the exception of approval from the Liquidation Court for any
mpencliture by the Liquidator, and except that the Ba	
ptcy Court may serve as such a
forum prior to the dismissal of the First Assured Baul raptay, the forum to resolve any
controversy, claim or dispute arism i g out of or relating to this Deposit Agreement, its
enforcement or the breach thereot shall be in the Ancillary Court.
2.7. Entire Understanding, Waiver and Modification
This Deposit Agreement and the referenced Settlement Agreement contain the
entire understanding between the parties hereto with respect to the matters described
herein and supersedes all preeiisting or simultaneous agreements, oral or written,
recognizing that this Deposit Agreement is being entered into to facilitate the Settlement
Agreement and should be construed in conjunction therewith. No breach of any
provision hereof can be waived unless in writing. Waiver of any one breach shall not be
deemed to be a waiver of any other breach of the same, or any other provision hereof:
This Deposit Agreement may not be chanced, modified or amended except by a written
agreement executed by the parties.
2.8. count=arts and Originals
This Deposit Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which when so
executed and delivered shall be. deemed to be an original and all of which taken together
shall constitute one and the same document
2.9. Binding Effect
This Deposit Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of
the parties hereto, their successors-in-interest, heirs, officers, employees, attorneys,
agents, devisees, legatees, personal representatives, trustees, directors, members and
shareholders.
t00490973 11)
Ancillary Deposit Agreement
Decee ber 19, 2407
Page 4 ^of 52.10. No Third Part' Beneficiaries
This Deposit Agreement creates.no thixd party beneef ciaries•.and shalf nof'rreate
any rights or benefits that may be enforced by any persons not party to tlris Deposit
Agreement.
2.11. No Interpretation against Drafter
Because each party had the opportunity to draft, review and edit the language in
this Deposit Agreement, no pxesu mpt oa for or against any party. arising out of the
drafting of all or any part of the Deposit Agreement will be applied in any action or other
proceeding relating to,. arising out of, or involdng this I3eposit Agreement and each party
waives the benefit of-any statate or rule of law providing otherwise.
2.12. Inclusion ofR.eaitals and Definitions
The provisions in the Recitals and Definitions section of this Deposit Agreement
are valid, binding and enforceable..
IN VnTNESS WkIFRE01, the undersigned have executed this Deposit
Agreement on the dates indicated.
Marcy Morrison, Insaranco.Commissioner for the State of Colorado, in her capacify as
Ancillary Receiver ofPrimaGvard Insurance Company (" Ancillary Receiver")
Title:	
CS
Date' a	
12tQ10 -7 -.- -
First Assured Waxranty Corporation ("First Assured=')
By:
Title:
Date:
{oaa^as^a ^ t3
Ancillary Deposit Agreemt
December 19, 2007
Page'5 -of 52,10. Ng T-Nrd p Bsnef€cia ies	
This Aoposit A,greemmz ipeates no tad ply heef€ciariea and knot oraate
any do or benefits that mocy bo enfareed by any paeans not patty to this Deposit
Agtees^ez^t,	
.
2,^	
To hrtarprmjaiion qmihst Drafter	
3epanm each pmy has tee uppnrtanity to dray ze*w and edit the IMgA$e in
tlYis ^epo$^ Agr^emez;t, x€n pre^umt^%oY^^ofi or agaiti^ ^Y P^3'' axd^u^g, rout ox'tho
drafting of all or avy park of ft, Deposit 4g oemot will be applied in my a4 m or other
proceeding muting to, atialr€g out oiz or invok-hig this Depo6t.Agreerient ar7d WU party
wslvw the henofit e, my steat€ttt; or rule of Ism providing othszwlm.
2,12, h^al^siQZf of'l^aitels andlse ,^i^i^_o^as
The providow k the Reoifals and Defli i ons vootion of $U DeposltAgrmemmt
&T6 vim, binding and otforoeable.
IN TNBSS VaMRBOF, the undmxsignedhie she ated this Deposit
Agreement on the dates iudieated..	
M ro^ Morrism, h-i ' wa aoe Co=isslonor for the State of 061ozada, In her capaa ty as
Anoillary Rvouivo ofprime0=d Inn-sur9Sm Company ^ An4lmj R-eceivae')
Sy;
hate:
Dust Assuzed'tNarmay Corpazs#lou (Tir Y.Assu aTI)
P
By',
Title.	
P007311)
.Anozllary Dopy sit Agroe=at
Dec=bar 19, 200 7
Page 5 of 5
Z06	
Vd`S31KIOQ' SSV 2 t{VeNnia	
BVaggPCJ7J U XVA Lt:)U 8009M40i
I
IExhibit 1
FIRST ASSURED WARRANTY CORPORATION
Allowed Unsecured Trade Creditors
v8t<: - -	
•s,:	
r,_-	
t. w y;m^.r"	
':;.t .	
_ ., yi,.;^,>y;s-f^•^ty?T1.M.^Y=^(: '^iC+ SI MSJki x. v1r t 7..f:	
{t	
Y ,	
1_,	
f1}K`S,	
Sr. YA •,	
,t,':..«:_'t<	
.,- ,L.r./:_ ri	
..t;	
Y+Y:ti T•. .
127 Anton Collins Mitchell, 303 E. 17th Ave, Ste. 600 Denver CO 80203 $10,165.00 $1,480.10
LLP
171 Cheli & Lyshak P.L.C. 26154 Woodward Ave Royal Oak MI 48068 -1267 $632.50 $92.10
250 Barnes, David 1205 Hadle SL St, Louis MO 63106	
• $50,265,00 $7,318.94
276 National Dealers 650 N. Jefferson St. Florissant MO 63031 $83,348.00 $12,136.05
Warranty, Inc./
Kohnen, Carl F.
327 American Express P.O. Box 3001 Malvern PA 19355-0701 $344,634.36 $50,181.17
Travel Related Srvcs
Cc Inc. Corp. Card
cfo Becket &Lee LLP
337 Ropers, Majeski, Kohn 80 North First St: San Jose CA 95113' $8,390.95 $1,221.78
& Bentle y
376 Key Merchant 7,300 Chapman Highway Knoxville TN 37920 $423,20 1,88 $61,621.15
Services, LLCI
Trou tman, Andrew -
Graff, Es q.
465 Maddlan Rack &Pinion 1021'1 Pacific Mesa Blvd. San Diego CA 92121 $5,602.00 $816.69
dba Meridian Auto 0404
Parts
470 Miles & Stockbridge, 1751 Pinnacle Or- McLean VA 22102 $31,611,28 $4,602.82
P_C. I Ste. 500
Kenney,	
rian F.Es .
478 Continental 6000 S. Broadway Littleton CO 80'124 $206.25 $30.03
Vo(kswa on inc. '
522 Garage Calabrese lnc. 1602 62nd St. Brooklyn NY 11204 $3,435.04 $500.17.
Tnp,L $961,492.26 $140,0 0q.0 0
W:Xwdox1CLIENTS12472310103\00511982 XLS 1111/200812:52 PM Page I of 1EXHIBITKOBAYASHI, SUGITA & CODA
WENDELL H. FUJI 4222-0
CLIFFORD K. HIGA 2950-0
LANSON K. KUPAU
First Hawaiian Center5687-0
	999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889
Telephone: 539-8700R1$Pr419
H. cFtrNG
0^- K
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. Schmidt
Insurance Commissioner- of the State of Hawaii
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance	
) S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,	
) (Special Proceedings)
Petitioner,	
} ORDER GRANTING IN PART
LIQUIDATOR'S PETITION FOR FINAL
vs.	
) ORDER AND JUDGMENT APPROVING
LIQUIDATOR'S SETTLEMENT WITH
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, ) SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP,	
) AFFILIATES AND PETITION FOR GOOD
FAITH DETERMINATION OF
Respondent.	
) SETTLEMENT
HEARING
Date: March 5, 2008
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Judge: Hon. Victoria S. Marks
NO TRIAL DATE SET
ORDER GRANTING IN PART LIQUIDATOR'S PETITION FOR FINAL ORDER AND JUDGMENT
APPROVING LIQUIDATOR'S SETTLEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND
AFFILIATES AND PETITION FOR GOOD FAITH DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT
Petitioner- J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of
Hawaii ("Petitioner") PETITION FOR FINAL ORDER AND JUDGMENT APPROVING
LIQUIDATOR'S SETTLEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND AFFILIATES
EXHIBIT B)
)AND PETITION FOR GOOD FAITH DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT, filed herein on
January 14, 2008, came on for hearing before the Honorable Victoria S. Marks on March 5, 2008
at 8:30 a.m. Lanson K. Kupau, Esq. and Joel A. Glover- Esq. appeared on behalf of the
Petitioner, John Y. Yamano, Esq. appeared on behalf of First Assured Warranty Corporation and
ISourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Ray Galvan appeared pro se. No opposition was filed.
On March 6, 2008, a Stipulation for Limited Extension Related to Good Faith
Determination was filed that established March 19, 2008 as the deadline for BDO Seidman, LLP
("BDO"), Anton Collins Mitchell ("ACM"), and Aon Insurance Managers (USA) ("Aon") to file
a response and/or objection, if any, to the Liquidator's Petition for Good Determination of
Settlement (the "Stipulation").
The Court, having considered the Liquidator's Petition for Final Order- and Judgment
Approving Liquidator's Settlement with Shareholders' Family and Affiliates and Petition for
Good Faith Determination of Settlement, the Memorandum in Support of Petition, the
Declaration of Special Deputy Liquidator Paul S.K. Yuen, Exhibit "A" - the Settlement
Agreement, the Notice of Hearing and Certificate of Service, the Stipulation, and being
otherwise fully advised in the premises, hereby FINDS AND ORDERS as follows:
I . The Liquidator's Petition for Final Order and Judgment Approving Liquidator's
Settlement with Shareholders' Family and Affiliates and Petition for Good Faith Determination
of Settlement (the "Petition") is granted in its entirety except as otherwise referenced herein.
2. The Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases ("Agreement"), attached as
Exhibit "A" to the Petition, is approved.
3. The Liquidator is authorized to implement the Agreement and to undertake all
actions conternplated by the Agreement, including but not limited to, the liquidation of First
Assured Warranty Corporation, 1SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc., and Warrantee Wise, Inc. in
the PrimeGuard Liquidation proceedings.
4. As applied to all persons and/or entities other than BDO, ACM and Aon, the
settlement detailed in the Agreement was entered into in good faith in accordance with Haw.
Rev. Stat. § 633-15.5 and all statutory conditions required thereunder have been satisfied.
25. The Court also finds that, pursuant to Haw. R. Civ. Pro., Rule 54(b), there is more
than one claim for relief still pending in this Special Proceeding and thus, there is no just reason
for delay in entering a final judgment as to the court's granting of the instant Motion.
6. Therefore, it further ordered and expressly directed, pursuant to Haw. R. Civ.
Pro., Rule 54(b) and 58, that this Order be entered as a final judgment.
DATED: Honolulu, Hawaii, &R 1	
2008.
JUDGE OF THE ABOVE2ENTITLED COURT
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND CONTENT:
14
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii v. Primeguard Insurance
Company, Inc., A Risk Retention Group, S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM; ORDER GRANTING IN PART
LIQUIDATOR'S PETITION FOR FINAL ORDER AND JUDGMENT APPROVING LIQUIDATOR'S
SETTLEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS' FAMILY AND AFFILIATES AND PETITION FOR GOOD FAITH
DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT
3EXHIBIT CUNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO
In xe:	
)
FIRST ASSURED WARRANTY CORPORATION, } Case No. 06-13669 MEIN.
a Colorado corporation,	
}
}Chapter I I
EIN: 84-1366869	
)
}
Debtor.	
)
ORDER GRANTING	
MOTION FOR GIRDER APPROVING: (I) COMPROMISE OF CONTROVERSY WITH
THE INSURANCE COMMISSIONER FOR. THE STATE OF HAWAII; AND (II)
CONDITIONAL DISMISSAL OF THE BANKRUPTCY CASE
THIS MATTER comes before the Court on the Motion for Order Approving: (I)
Compromise of Controversy with the Insurance Commissioner for the State of Hawaii; and (II)
Conditional Dismissal of the Bankruptcy Case (the "Motion") filed by First Assured Warranty
Corporation (the "Debtor") on January 11, 2008. The Court has reviewed the Motion, is advised
in the premises, no objections have been filed and sustained, and there being good cause
therefore, it is hereby:
ORDERED that:	
(1) Debtor is authorized to enter into that certain Settlement Agreement and Mutual
Releases (the "Agreement") dated December 19, 2007, a copy of which is
attached to the Motion;
(2) . Debtor is authorized to take all action contemplated by the Agreement; and
(3) Upon the Court's receipt of a notice stating that all of the conditions required to
establish the Effective Date (as defined in the Agreement) have been satisfied, the
above-captioned bankruptcy case shall be dismissed.
DA'Z'ED this 1 ^` dayof	
2008
BY THE COURT:
Honorable Michael E. Ro.
United States Bankruptcy fudge
EXHIBIT CIN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance	
)S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,	
) (Special Proceeding)
Petitioner,	
)NOTICE OF HEARING AND CERTIFICATE
OF SERVICE
vs.	
)
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, )
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP.,	
)
Respondent.	
)
TO: JOHN Y. YAMANO, ESQ.
McCorriston Miller Mukai MacKinnon
Five Waterfront Plaza
500 Ala Moana Blvd., 4th Floor
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that Petitioner J.P. Schmidt's, in his capacity as
Liquidator of PrimeGuard Insurance Company, Inc., MOTION FOR LEAVE TO ADD FIRST
ASSURED WARRANTY CORPORATION, ISOURCEAUTOWARRANTY.COM, INC. AND
WARRANTEE WISE, INC. AS RESPONDENTS AND PLACING THEM UNDER A
SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER OF LIQUIDATION shall come on for hearing before the
Honorable Victoria S. Marks, Judge of the above -entitled Court, in her courtroom at 777
Punchbowl Street, Honolulu, Hawaii, onLAJ^j	
at Ha.m./ , or as soon
thereafter as counsel may be heard.
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, May 21 , 2008.
CLIFFORD K. MGA
WENDELL H. FUJI
LANSON K. KUPAU
Attorneys for Plaintiff J.P. SCHMIDT,
in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard
Insurance Company, Inc.CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on this date, a copy of the foregoing document was duly served by
means of hand delivery on the following persons at their respective address:
JOHN Y. YAMANO, ESQ.
McCorriston Miller Mukai MacKinnon
Five Waterfront Plaza
500 Ala Moana Blvd., 4th Floor
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
I hereby further certify that a Notice of Filed Pleading describing a summary of the
Liquidator's Motion, information on how to obtain a copy of the entire Motion, the hearing date,
time, place and when an opposition /position will be due, has been served upon all persons
identified in Haw. Rev. Stat., § 431:15-311 via U.S. Mail and on PrimeGuard's website:
www.primeguard.hawaii.gov .
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, May	
2008.
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
Attorneys for Plaintiff J.P. SCHMIDT,
in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard
Insurance Company, Inc.
2IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance	
S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,	
(Special Proceeding)
Petitioner,	
)
[PROPOSED] SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER OF
vs.	
) LIQUIDATION
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, )
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP., FIRST )
ASSURED WARRANTY CORPORATION, )
1 SOURCEAUTOWARRANTY.COM, INC. )
AND WARRANTEE WISE, INC.	
)
Respondents.	
)
[PROPOSED] SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER OF LIQUIDATION
This matter came for consideration before the Honorable Victoria S. Marks, on this date,
on Petitioner J.P. Schmidt's, in his capacity as Insurance Commissioner of the State of Hawaii
("Commissioner"), Motion for Leave to Add First Assured Warranty Corporation,
1 SourceAutoWarranty.com, Inc. and Warrantee Wise, Inc. as Respondents and Placing Them
Under a Supplemental Order of Liquidation ("Motion for Leave").
Based upon the Commissioner's showing, through the Motion for Leave, including the
attached declaration and exhibits,
THE COURT HEREBY SPECIFICALLY FINDS AND ORDERS, JUDGES AND
DECREES as follows:
1. An Order of Liquidation was entered by this Court with respect to PrimeGuard Insurance
Company on December 19, 2005. That Order of Liquidation remains in full force and effect and
this Supplemental Order of Liquidation serves to supplement and work in conjunction with theexisting Order of Liquidation.
2.Under the December 19, 2007 Settlement Agreement and Mutual Releases approved by
this Court in an Order dated March 18, 2008 and approved by the United States Bankruptcy
Court for the District of Colorado in Case No. 06-13669 ("Bankruptcy Court") on May 15, 2008,
this Court has sole and exclusive jurisdiction over First Assured Warranty Corporation ("First
Assured"), 1 SourceAuotWarranty.com, Inc. ("1 Source") and Warrantee Wise, Inc. ("Warrantee
Wise") (collectively the "Companies") and the Companies shall be liquidated by the Liquidator
under the Hawaii Insurers Supervision, Rehabilitation and Liquidation Act, Haw. Rev. Stat. §
431:15-101 et seq. (the "Act").
3.Regardless of the date on which this Order is entered, this Supplemental Liquidation
Order shall be effectively commencing immediately on the "Dismissal Date" which shall be the
same date on which the Bankruptcy Court issues its order dismissing the First Assured
Bankruptcy, Case No. 06-13669.
4.First Assured, Warrantee Wise and 1 Source shall each be added as respondents in this
action and the case caption shall be amended to reflect that modification.
5.The Companies' business is ordered liquidated. The Commissioner, and the
Commissioner's successors in office, is appointed as Liquidator of the Companies. The
Liquidator shall forthwith take possession of the assets of the Companies and administer them
under the general supervision of this Court. The Liquidator shall be vested by operation of law
with title to all of the property, contracts, and rights of action and all of the books and records of
the Companies, wherever located, as of the entry of the Order of Liquidation. The filing or
recording of this Liquidation Order with the clerk of the Circuit Court of the First Judicial Circuit
and at the Bureau of Conveyances shall impart the same notice as evidence of title.
26.Upon issuance of this Supplemental Order of Liquidation and effective as of the
Dismissal Date, the rights and liabilities of the Companies and of their creditors, policyholders,
shareholders, members and all other persons interested in its estate are fixed, except as otherwise
provided in Haw. Rev. Stat. §§ 431:15-308 and 431:15-327.
7.In accordance with Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-307(e), the Liquidator shall provide
accounting to the court on a quarterly basis.
8.The Liquidator has all powers and authority as set forth in the Liquidation Act, including
but not limited to, Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-310, which provides that the Liquidator shall have
the power to:
a.Appoint a special deputy to act for the Liquidator under the Act, and to determine the
special deputy's reasonable compensation. The special deputy shall have all powers	
of the Liquidator granted by Haw. Rev. Stat. § 451:15-310. The special deputy shall
serve at the pleasure of the Liquidator.
b.Employ employees and agents, legal counsel, actuaries, accountants, appraisers,
consultants, and such other personnel as the Liquidator deems necessary to assist in
the Liquidation.
c.Fix the reasonable compensation of employees and agents, legal counsel, actuaries,
accountants, appraisers and consultants, with the approval of the court.
d.Pay reasonable compensation to persons appointed, and defray from the funds or
assets of the Companies all expenses of taking possession of, conserving, conducting,
liquidating, disposing of, or otherwise dealing with the business and property of the
insurer. In the event that the property of the Companies does not contain sufficient
cash or liquid assets to defray the costs incurred, the Commissioner may advance the
costs so incurred from the assets of PrimeGuard Insurance Company and, if those are
insufficient, then out of any appropriation for the maintenance of the insurance
division. Any amounts so advanced for expenses of administration shall be repaid out
of the first available moneys of the Companies.
e.Hold hearings, subpoena witnesses to compel their attendance, administer oaths,
examine any person under oath, and compel any party to subscribe to their testimony
after it has been correctly reduced to writing, and in connection therewith require the
production of any books, papers, records or other documents that the Liquidator
deems relevant to the inquiry.
3f. Collect all debts and moneys due and claims belonging to the Companies, wherever
located, and for this purpose to: (i) institute timely action in other jurisdictions, to
forestall garnishment and attachment proceedings against such debts; (ii) do such
other acts as are necessary or expedient to collect, conserve or protect its assets or
property, including the power to sell, compound, compromise or assign debts for
purposes of collection upon such terms and conditions as the Liquidator deems best;
and (iii) pursue any creditor's remedies available to enforce its claims.
9.Conduct public and private sales of the property of the Companies.
h.Use assets of the estate of the Companies to transfer policy obligations to one or more
solvent companies, if the transfer can be arranged without prejudice to applicable
priorities under Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-332.
i.Acquire, hypothecate, encumber, lease, improve, sell, transfer, abandon, or otherwise
dispose of or deal with, any property of the Companies at its market value or upon
such terms and conditions as are fair and reasonable. The Liquidator shall also have
power to execute, acknowledge, and deliver any and all deeds, assignments, releases
and other instruments necessary or proper to effectuate any sale of property or other
transaction in connection with the liquidation.
j•Borrow money on the security of the Companies' assets, or without security, and to
execute and deliver all documents necessary to that transaction for the purpose of
facilitating the liquidation.
k. Enter into such contracts as are necessary to carry out the order to liquidate, and
affirm or disavow any contracts to which the insurer is a party.
1. Continue to prosecute and institute in the name of the Companies or in the
Liquidator's own name any and all suits and other legal proceedings in this state and
elsewhere, and abandon the prosecution of claims the Liquidator deems unprofitable
to pursue further. If one or more of the Companies is dissolved under Haw. Rev. Stat.
§ 431:15-309, the Liquidator shall have the power to apply to any court in this state or
elsewhere for leave to substitute the Liquidator therefore as plaintiff.
in. Prosecute any action that may exist on behalf of the creditors, members,
policyholders or shareholders of the Companies against any officer of the Companies
or any other person, to the extent not released in the Settlement Agreement.
n.Remove any or all records and property of the Companies to the offices of the
Commissioner or to such other place as may be convenient for the purposes of
efficient and orderly execution of the Liquidation.
o.Deposit in one or more banks in this states such sums as are required for meeting
current administration expense and dividend distributions.
4Invest all sums not currently needed, unless the court orders otherwise.
File any necessary documents for recordation in the Bureau of Conveyances or other
appropriate office or elsewhere where property of the Companies is located.
r.Assert all defenses available to the Companies as against third persons, including
statutes of limitations, statutes of frauds, and the defense of usury. A waiver of any
defense by the Companies after the petition for liquidation was filed shall not bind the
Liquidator.
s.Exercise and enforce all the rights, remedies, and powers of any creditor, shareholder,
policyholder, or member, including any power to avoid any transfer or lien that may
be given by the general law and that is not included with Haw. Rev. Stat. §§ 431:15-
315 through 431:15-317.
t.Intervene in any proceeding wherever instituted that might lead to the appointment of
a receiver or trustee, and act as the receiver or trustee whenever the appointment is
offered.
u.Enter into agreements with any receiver or commissioner of any other state relating to
the rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation or dissolution of the Companies.
v.Exercise all powers now held or hereafter conferred upon liquidators or receivers by
the laws of this state not inconsistent with the Act.
w.Do such other acts not specifically enumerated in this Supplemental Order of
Liquidation and the Act, or otherwise provided for, as may be necessary or
appropriate for the accomplishment of or in aid of the purpose of liquidation of the
Companies.
9. Pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat. §431:15-106, any officer, manager, director, trustee, owner,
employee, or agent of the Companies, or any other persons with authority over, or in charge of
any segment of the Companies' affairs, shall cooperate with the Commissioner, Liquidator or
receiver in this proceeding, related proceedings, and any investigation preliminary to this	
proceeding. The term "person" in this paragraph includes any person who exercises control
directly or indirectly over activities of the Companies through any holding company or other
affiliate of the insurer and includes, but is not limited to, all officers, managers, directors,
trustees, owners, employees or agents of First Assured Warranty Corporation,P.
q•
51SourceAutoWarranty.com, and Warrantee Wise, Inc. The duty and obligation to cooperate
shall include, but shall not be limited to the following:
a.To reply promptly in writing to any inquiry from the Commissioner, Liquidator or
receiver requesting such a reply.
b.To make available and deliver to the Commissioner, Liquidator, or receiver any
books, accounts, documents, or other records, or information or property of or
pertaining to the Companies and in its possession, custody and control, including but
not limited all funds that were, or should have been, held in separate trust accounts
for the benefit of the Companies.
c.Specifically, the banks set forth below shall cooperate with the Liquidator and
receiver in order to facilitate the transfer of any assets being held for the benefit of the
Companies, to the extent such transfers have not already occurred:
10.No person shall obstruct or interfere with the Commissioner, Liquidator or receiver in the
conduct of this delinquency proceeding or any investigation preliminary or incidental hereto.
11.Pursuant to Haw. Rev. Stat. § 431:15-105, the following injunctions and restraining
orders are entered and the Liquidator may seek further injunctions, restraining orders and orders
as necessary and proper under the Act. Application of these injunctions includes, but is not
limited to, all persons identified in Paragraph 9 of this Liquidation Order.
a.The Companies are enjoined and restrained from the transaction of further business.
The Companies are hereby enjoined from issuing any warranties that identify
PrimeGuard as an insurer of such warranties.
b.No property belonging to the Companies may be transferred without the express
written approval of the Liquidator and/or the receiver.
c.Interference with the Liquidator or receiver or with this proceeding is prohibited.
d.Waste of the Companies' assets is prohibited.
e.Dissipation and transfer of bank accounts is prohibited, except as expressly provided
for herein or as designated by the Liquidator or receiver.
f.With the exception of actions brought or expressly approved by the Liquidator, the
institution or further prosecution of any actions or proceedings against the Companies
is prohibited.
6g.The obtaining of preferences, judgments, attachments, garnishments, or liens against
the Companies is prohibited.
h.The levying of execution against the Companies is prohibited.
i.The making of any sale or deed for nonpayment of taxes or assessments that would
lessen the value of the assets of the Companies is prohibited.
j•The withholding from the Liquidator or receiver of books, accounts, documents, or
other records relating to the business of the Companies is prohibited.
k. Any other threatened or contemplated action that might lessen the value of the
Companies' assets or prejudice the rights of policyholders, creditors, or shareholders,
or the administration of any proceeding under this article is prohibited.
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii,
JUDGE OF THE ABOVE-ENTITLED COURT
7

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dcca/ins/ins_div_actions/primeguard/notice_of_entry_of_dismissal.pdf) ---
1(;Cllr ir'
K11 40
J. KUBO
CL KKOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
WENDELL H. FUJI	
4222-0
CLIFFORD K. HIGA	
2950-0
LANSON K. KUPAU	
5687-0
First Hawaiian Center
999 Bishop Street, Suite 2600
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813-3889
Telephone: 539-8700
Attorneys for Petitioner J.P. SCHMIDT,
in his capacity as Liquidator of
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, INC.
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance	
)S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,	
)(Special Proceeding)
Petitioner,	
) NOTICE OF ENTRY OF ORDER OF
DISMISSAL IN BANKRUPTCY MATTER;
VS.	
) EXHIBIT "A"; CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, )
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP.,	
)
Respondent.	
)
NOTICE OF ENTRY OF ORDER OF DISMISSAL IN BANKRUPTCY MATTER
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN of the entry of the Order of Dismissal in In re: FIRST
ASSURED WARRANTY CORP., U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Colorado, Case No.
06-13669 MER (Chapter 11) filed therein on May 30, 2008, attached hereto as Exhibit "A."Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, June 4, 2008.
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
WENDELL H. FUJI
LANSON K. KUPAUCLIFF
Attorneys for Plaintiff J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity
as Liquidator of PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE
COMPANY
2UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO
In re:
FIRST ASSURED WARRANTY CORP.,
a Colorado corporation,
Debtor
ORDER OF DISMISSAL
THIS MATTER comes before the Court pursuant to the Court's May 15, 2008 Order
Granting Motion for Order Approving (I) Compromise of Controversy with the Insurance
Commissioner for the State of Hawaii; and (II) Conditional Dismissal of the Bankruptcy Case
("Order"). Pursuant to the Order, on May 28, 2008, the parties filed the Dismissal Notice and
Notice of Effective Date - May 28, 2008. The Court, having reviewed all applicable filings,
being advised in the premises, no objections having been filed, and there being good cause
therefore, hereby:
ORDERS that the above-captioned bankruptcy case is dismissed.
Dated this 2G?"-day oyt	
, 2008
BY THE COURT:
Honorable Michael E. Romero
United States Bankruptcy Ji cdgi5'	
Case No. 06-13669 MER
Chapter 11
EXHIBITAIN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE FIRST CIRCUIT
STATE OF HAWAII
J.P. SCHMIDT, in his capacity as Insurance	
)S.P. No. 05-1-0443 VSM
Commissioner of the State of Hawaii,	
) (Special Proceeding)
Petitioner,	
)CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
vs.	
)
PRIMEGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, )
INC., A RISK RETENTION GROUP.,	
)
Respondent.	
)
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on this date, a copy of the foregoing document was duly served by
means of hand delivery on the following persons at their respective address:
JOHN Y. YAMANO, ESQ.
McCorriston Miller Mukai MacKinnon
Five Waterfront Plaza
500 Ala Moana Blvd., 4th Floor
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Dated: Honolulu, Hawaii, June 4, 2008.
KOBAYASHI, SUGITA & GODA
ANSON
Attorneys for Plaintiff J.P. SCHMIDT,
in his capacity as Liquidator of PrimeGuard
Insurance Company, Inc.
