Source URL: https://puc.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Public Utilities Commission Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii Public Utilities Commission Search this site Search Home News & Events Public Notices, Announcements & News Releases eServices Calendar Information Industries Energy Telecommunications Motor Carriers Water Carriers Water/Wastewater Reports FAQ About Introduction Vision, Mission, Values, and Goals and Objectives Commissioners Commission History Statutes, Administrative Rules, and General Orders Contact CDMS eServices eServices (Home) Calendar Consumer Assistance Regulated Entities Submit a Filing Search Case & Filings Reports CDMS eService Help How can we help you? Aloha E Komo Mai. The Public Utilities Commission (PUC) regulates all chartered, franchised, certificated, and registered public utility companies operating in the State; reviews and approves rates, tariffs, charges and fees; determines the allowable rate of earnings in establishing rates; issues guidelines concerning the general management of franchised or certificated utility businesses; and acts on requests for the acquisition, sale, disposition or other exchange of utility properties, including mergers and consolidations. Consumers Engage with the PUC, submit a public comment, file a complaint, ask questions and get answers, and more. Regulated Entities Submit a filing and view regulated entities, cases, filings, and more. Filing Submit filings online, by mail, and in-person. Search Cases & Filings Find PUC cases/dockets, tariffs, certificates, filings and other documents. What’s New / Announcements Public Notices Notice to Interested Persons November 1, 2024 – Motor Carrier Applications November 1, 2024 – NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN TO interested persons that the applications listed have been filed with the HAWAII PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION. Notice to Interested Persons October 25, 2024 – Motor Carrier Applications October 25, 2024 – NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN TO interested persons that the applications listed have been filed with the HAWAII PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION. Notice to Interested Persons October 4, 2024 – Motor Carrier Applications October 4, 2024 – NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN TO interested persons that the applications listed have been filed with the HAWAII PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION. Featured CDMS eServices Help Wildfire, Natural Hazard Mitigation, Resilience, and Recovery Equity Docket DER Docket RFP Docket Engage with the PUC Daily Activity Report Follow the Daily Activity Report (DAR) to see the all filings from the previous day. Click the Subscribe button to sign up to have the daily report email directly to you. Dockets Updates Subscribe to PUC Dockets and Cases to receive email notifications when new documents are filed. Search for Cases , click the down arrow in the Actions column, then click the Subscribe button. Watch live streams and recordings of Commission hearings, conferences, workshops, and other events. YouTube.com/@hpuc Hawaii Energy Find the latest information concerning the new and expanded Hawaii Energy Efficiency Programs. Read More Hawaii Energy One Call Center The One Call Center system will provide advanced warning to excavators of the location of underground lines before they begin digging. Read More One Call Center Relay Hawaii Relay Hawaii is a no-cost service that provides full telephone accessibility to people who are Deaf, Hard of Hearing, DeafBlind or those with a speech disability. Read More Relay Hawaii About Us Contact Us Jobs Site Map Policies Disclaimer Notice Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy 808-586-2020 contact email Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
