Source URL: https://realproperty.honolulu.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
RPAD - Homepage You need to enable JavaScript in order to use the AI chatbot tool powered by ChatBot Department of Budget and Fiscal Services Real Property Assessment Division Translate HOME Tax Relief and Forms Tax Relief and Forms Exemptions Dedications Affordable Housing Miscellaneous Forms State Reports Appeals Appeal Information File an Appeal FAQ Help & Resources FAQ Examples of Property Records & Codes Informational Videos Informational Guide Property Tax Bills, Payments, & Tax Credit Program City Laws and Rules related to Real Property Assessment What's New Act 187 Contact Us Previous Next Department of Budget and Fiscal Services Real Property Assessment Division KA ʻOIHANA MĀLAMA MOʻOHELU A KĀLĀ Ke Keʻena Hōʻoia ʻAuhau ʻĀina Kūʻiʻo Importance of Reviewing Your Notice of Assessment & Property Record December 15, 2024 Delivery of Notices of Assessment DOWNLOAD PDF NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT DOWNLOAD PDF PROPERTY RECORD FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQ) Informational videos Residential Valuation Process & Notice of Assessment and Board of Review Appeal Process WATCH VIDEOS Residential A Classification Information DOWNLOAD PDF What's New Tax rates for tax year 2024-2025 were adopted on June 5, 2024 via Resolution 24-61 . Taxes owed are based on the tax rates and assessed values. The tax rate multiplied by the assessed value, divided by 1,000 equals the amount of taxes due. CCH Administrative Rules Chapter 4-5-15 entitled Low and Moderate-income Rental Housing Exemption is repealed effective October 21, 2024. CCH Administrative Rules Chapter 4-5-20 entitled Schedule of Fees for Real Property Tax Records is adopted effective October 21, 2024. HOW TO CALCULATE REAL PROPERTY TAX LATEST INFORMATION Home Exemption Program Notice of Assessment & Board of Review Appeal Process Residential Valuation Process Video A brief informational video of our Residential Market Modeling Process. Other Helpful Resources Property Records Search Home Exemption Change C/O Address Change Mailing Address Important Dates For Your Assessment 15 Dec Assessment notices mailed 15 Jan Deadline for filing appeals 20 Jan Second-half year bills mailed 1 Feb Certified assessment roll sent to City Council 20 Feb Second-half year payments due 30 Jun End of tax year 1 Jul Beginning of tax year 20 Jul First-half year bills mailed 20 Aug First-half year payments due 1 Sep Deadline for filing dedication petitions 30 Sep Deadline for filing exemption claims and tax credit applications 1 Oct Date of Valuation 1 Nov Deadline for reporting changes affecting exemptions Frequently Asked I inadvertently threw out my new property tax assessment which was just mailed to me. Could I have another one mailed to me? You can obtain the real property assessment information on our website, or a copy of the notice of assessment may be acquired from our office with payment of search and copy fees and a self-addressed stamped envelope mailed to our Honolulu or Kapolei offices. Checks should be made payable to the "City and County of Honolulu". Honolulu Office 842 Bethel Street, Basement Honolulu, HI 96813 PH: (808) 768-3799 Kapolei Office 1000 Uluohia Street, #206 Kapolei, HI 96707 PH: (808) 768-3799 Can I file my appeal via fax or email? No, an appeal cannot be lodged via facsimile or email. Appeals may be filed in person, by mail, or online using this website during the annual Appeal Period from December 15th to January 15th. What is the difference between Mass Appraisal and Individual Appraisal? Mass Appraisal Mass appraisal is defined as the systematic appraisal of groups of properties as of a given date using standardized procedures and statistical testing. Sales data are analyzed and adjustments are made by the appraisers based on what buyers paid in the market. These adjustments are applied to the large populations of properties to estimate the value using a Computer Assisted Mass Appraisal (CAMA) system. RPAD follows the ROH to apply mass appraisal to value all properties for ad valorem taxation purposes to obtain uniform and equalized assessments throughout the county. RPAD appraisers have been continuously and actively trained by International Association of Assessing Officers (IAAO) instructors and its resources. Individual Appraisal Individual appraisals are done by a fee appraiser on a single property, for purchasing, refinancing, or estate planning upon lender’s or homeowner’s request. The appraiser typically selects three or more sales to estimate the value. These sales are analyzed and adjustments are made based on what buyers paid. The adjustments are manually applied to estimate the value of the property requested by the client. Fee appraisers typically follow different guidelines to perform their assignments and scope of work. Mass Appraisal vs. Individual Appraisal Mass Appraisal Individual Appraisal City and County of Honolulu Client/Intended Users Lender, Homeowners Valuation for Ad Valorem Taxation Purposes Purpose Purchase, Refinancing, Estate, etc. October 1st preceding the tax year Effective Date of Valuation Inspection date, Date of death All taxable properties in the C&C of Honolulu Subject of the Assignment Client's requested subject property How do you go about removing the homeowner's exemption when the home is put up for rental or sale? You can write or email us when you actually rent or sell the property. The owner of any property which has been allowed an exemption has a duty to report to the assessor within 30 days after such owner or property ceases to qualify for such an exemption, but no later than November 1st. I appealed my property assessment and the Board of Review has reduced the assessment. Do I get my appeal deposit back? In the event of an appeal by a taxpayer to the boards of review is compromised, or sustained as to any amount of the valuation in dispute, the costs deposited shall be returned to the appellant. Otherwise the entire amount of costs deposited shall be retained by the city. More FAQ Important Dates For Your Assessment 15 Dec Assessment notices mailed 15 Jan Deadline for filing appeals 20 Jan Second-half year bills mailed 1 Feb Certified assessment roll sent to City Council 20 Feb Second-half year payments due 30 Jun End of tax year 1 Jul Beginning of tax year 20 Jul First-half year bills mailed 20 Aug First-half year payments due 1 Sep Deadline for filing dedication petitions 30 Sep Deadline for filing exemption claims and tax credit applications 1 Oct Date of Valuation 1 Nov Deadline for reporting changes affecting exemptions Frequently Asked I inadvertently threw out my new property tax assessment which was just mailed to me. Could I have another one mailed to me? You can obtain the real property assessment information on our website, or a copy of the notice of assessment may be acquired from our office with payment of search and copy fees and a self-addressed stamped envelope mailed to our Honolulu or Kapolei offices. Checks should be made payable to the "City and County of Honolulu". Honolulu Office 842 Bethel Street, Basement Honolulu, HI 96813 PH: (808) 768-3799 Kapolei Office 1000 Uluohia Street, #206 Kapolei, HI 96707 PH: (808) 768-3799 Can I file my appeal via fax or email? No, an appeal cannot be lodged via facsimile or email. Appeals may be filed in person, by mail, or online using this website during the annual Appeal Period from December 15th to January 15th. What is the difference between Mass Appraisal and Individual Appraisal? Mass Appraisal Mass appraisal is defined as the systematic appraisal of groups of properties as of a given date using standardized procedures and statistical testing. Sales data are analyzed and adjustments are made by the appraisers based on what buyers paid in the market. These adjustments are applied to the large populations of properties to estimate the value using a Computer Assisted Mass Appraisal (CAMA) system. RPAD follows the ROH to apply mass appraisal to value all properties for ad valorem taxation purposes to obtain uniform and equalized assessments throughout the county. RPAD appraisers have been continuously and actively trained by International Association of Assessing Officers (IAAO) instructors and its resources. Individual Appraisal Individual appraisals are done by a fee appraiser on a single property, for purchasing, refinancing, or estate planning upon lender’s or homeowner’s request. The appraiser typically selects three or more sales to estimate the value. These sales are analyzed and adjustments are made based on what buyers paid. The adjustments are manually applied to estimate the value of the property requested by the client. Fee appraisers typically follow different guidelines to perform their assignments and scope of work. Mass Appraisal vs. Individual Appraisal Mass Appraisal Individual Appraisal City and County of Honolulu Client/Intended Users Lender, Homeowners Valuation for Ad Valorem Taxation Purposes Purpose Purchase, Refinancing, Estate, etc. October 1st preceding the tax year Effective Date of Valuation Inspection date, Date of death All taxable properties in the C&C of Honolulu Subject of the Assignment Client's requested subject property How do you go about removing the homeowner's exemption when the home is put up for rental or sale? You can write or email us when you actually rent or sell the property. The owner of any property which has been allowed an exemption has a duty to report to the assessor within 30 days after such owner or property ceases to qualify for such an exemption, but no later than November 1st. I appealed my property assessment and the Board of Review has reduced the assessment. Do I get my appeal deposit back? In the event of an appeal by a taxpayer to the boards of review is compromised, or sustained as to any amount of the valuation in dispute, the costs deposited shall be returned to the appellant. Otherwise the entire amount of costs deposited shall be retained by the city. More FAQ Other Helpful Resources Property Records Search Home Exemption Change C/O Address Change Mailing Address Home Exemption Program Notice of Assessment & Board of Review Appeal Process Residential Valuation Process Video A brief informational video of our Residential Market Modeling Process. Other Helpful Resources Property Records Search Home Exemption Change C/O Address Change Mailing Address Important Dates For Your Assessment 15 Dec Assessment notices mailed 15 Jan Deadline for filing appeals 20 Jan Second-half year bills mailed 1 Feb Certified assessment roll sent to City Council 20 Feb Second-half year payments due 30 Jun End of tax year 1 Jul Beginning of tax year 20 Jul First-half year bills mailed 20 Aug First-half year payments due 1 Sep Deadline for filing dedication petitions 30 Sep Deadline for filing exemption claims and tax credit applications 1 Oct Date of Valuation 1 Nov Deadline for reporting changes affecting exemptions Home Exemption Program Notice of Assessment & Board of Review Appeal Process Residential Valuation Process Video A brief informational video of our Residential Market Modeling Process. Frequently Asked I inadvertently threw out my new property tax assessment which was just mailed to me. Could I have another one mailed to me? You can obtain the real property assessment information on our website, or a copy of the notice of assessment may be acquired from our office with payment of search and copy fees and a self-addressed stamped envelope mailed to our Honolulu or Kapolei offices. Checks should be made payable to the "City and County of Honolulu". Honolulu Office 842 Bethel Street, Basement Honolulu, HI 96813 PH: (808) 768-3799 Kapolei Office 1000 Uluohia Street, #206 Kapolei, HI 96707 PH: (808) 768-3799 Can I file my appeal via fax or email? No, an appeal cannot be lodged via facsimile or email. Appeals may be filed in person, by mail, or online using this website during the annual Appeal Period from December 15th to January 15th. What is the difference between Mass Appraisal and Individual Appraisal? Mass Appraisal Mass appraisal is defined as the systematic appraisal of groups of properties as of a given date using standardized procedures and statistical testing. Sales data are analyzed and adjustments are made by the appraisers based on what buyers paid in the market. These adjustments are applied to the large populations of properties to estimate the value using a Computer Assisted Mass Appraisal (CAMA) system. RPAD follows the ROH to apply mass appraisal to value all properties for ad valorem taxation purposes to obtain uniform and equalized assessments throughout the county. RPAD appraisers have been continuously and actively trained by International Association of Assessing Officers (IAAO) instructors and its resources. Individual Appraisal Individual appraisals are done by a fee appraiser on a single property, for purchasing, refinancing, or estate planning upon lender’s or homeowner’s request. The appraiser typically selects three or more sales to estimate the value. These sales are analyzed and adjustments are made based on what buyers paid. The adjustments are manually applied to estimate the value of the property requested by the client. Fee appraisers typically follow different guidelines to perform their assignments and scope of work. Mass Appraisal vs. Individual Appraisal Mass Appraisal Individual Appraisal City and County of Honolulu Client/Intended Users Lender, Homeowners Valuation for Ad Valorem Taxation Purposes Purpose Purchase, Refinancing, Estate, etc. October 1st preceding the tax year Effective Date of Valuation Inspection date, Date of death All taxable properties in the C&C of Honolulu Subject of the Assignment Client's requested subject property How do you go about removing the homeowner's exemption when the home is put up for rental or sale? You can write or email us when you actually rent or sell the property. The owner of any property which has been allowed an exemption has a duty to report to the assessor within 30 days after such owner or property ceases to qualify for such an exemption, but no later than November 1st. I appealed my property assessment and the Board of Review has reduced the assessment. Do I get my appeal deposit back? In the event of an appeal by a taxpayer to the boards of review is compromised, or sustained as to any amount of the valuation in dispute, the costs deposited shall be returned to the appellant. Otherwise the entire amount of costs deposited shall be retained by the city. More FAQ Our Mission The Real Property Assessment Division administers provisions of Chapter 8, Revised Ordinances of Honolulu , relating to the assessment of real property for tax purposes. It ensures real property assessment values are fair and equitable, based on market value, and in accordance with applicable standards and laws. Services & Information About Us Privacy Statement Contact Us Policy Accessibility Site Map Diversity Statement Additional City + State Websites Honolulu Departments & Agencies Honolulu City Council Hawaii County RPAD Kauai County RPAD Maui County RPAD Bureau Grantor/Grantee Search State Land Survey DAGS Map Search Bureau of Conveyances - State of Hawaii Honolulu Board of REALTORS Find Us HONOLULU OFFICE 842 Bethel St., Basement Honolulu, HI 96813 PH: (808) 768-3799 KAPOLEI OFFICE 1000 Uluohia St., #206 Kapolei, HI 96707 PH: (808) 768-3799 © 2024 City and County of Honolulu. Department of Budget and Fiscal Services. Real Property Assessment Division. × Your browser is not supported. To view this website, please upgrade to the latest version of one of these browsers: Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Internet Explorer Apple Safari

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://realproperty.honolulu.gov/media/klpba5o5/review-notice-20240722.pdf) ---
Review Your Annual Notice of Assessment  
 
The City and County of Honolulu’s Real Property Assessment Division sends a Notice of 
Assessment to property owners/taxpayers of each taxable parcel annually on or before December 
15.  The Notice of Assessment includes:  current property class, assessed pr operty value and any 
exemptions.  (A sample Notice of Assessment is provided below.)   
 
The Real Property Assessment Division encourages all owners/taxpayers to review their annual 
Notice of Assessment for each property they own and/or pay real property tax es on.   
 
Any owner/ taxpayer who is aggrieved by an assessment may appeal  to the board of review 
or the tax appeal court  on or before January 15 .  Appeal information can be found at 
https://www.realpropertyhonolulu.com/appeals/general -information/ .  
 
Each assessment is based on the status of the property as of October 1 preceding the tax year for 
which tax es are paid (the following year beginning July 1 through June 30).  
 
Annual tax rates of each property classification are established by City Council in June preceding 
the tax year for which taxes are paid.  See below for a sample of tax rates.  
Important d ates: 
 
October 1  Assessment date (assessment based on the status of the property on this date)  
December 15  Notice of Assessment sent  
January 15  Deadline to file appeal  
June  City Council establishes tax rates  
July 20  First half of tax bill sent, due August 20  
January 20  Second half of tax bill sent, due February 20  
 
A sample c alculation of real property taxes  of a Residential classed property with a net taxable of 
$708,000.  
 
$708,000 X $3.50 per $1,000 of net taxable = $2, 478.00 (annual)  
The tax bill for each half would be $1,239.00  ($2,478 / 2)  
 
 
Taxpayers/Prop erty owners are also encouraged to review their property records, specifically the 
property class (residential, commercial, agricultural, etc.) and the property descriptions of the land 
and any building improvements.  Accuracy of these descriptions are important as these 
property characteristics are the basis for its annual Notice of Assessment .  For more 
information of the importance of reviewing your property r ecords, click: 
https://www.realpropertyhonolulu.com/media/1706/review -records.pdf   
 
Call our office at (808) 768 -3799 or email us at bfsrpmai lbox@honolulu.gov  with any questions you 
may have.

--- Text from PDF (https://realproperty.honolulu.gov/media/w0raxxka/review-records.pdf) ---
Review Your Property Records 
 
The Real Property Assessment Division maintains parcel records for real property tax purposes.  
Individual property records include: current and historical assessments, current and historical 
tax information, current and historical property classifications, applied tax relief (e.g. home 
exemption), and description of the land and any building improvements. 
 
Taxpayers/Property owners are encouraged to review their property records, specifically the 
property class (residential, commercial, agricultural, etc.) and the property descriptions of the 
land and any building improvements.   
 
Property records are available at www.honolulupropertytax.com.  A sample residential record is 
provided below. You may search by the parcel’s site address or Tax Map Key (TMK), also 
known as the Property ID.   
 
Land descriptions include the size of lot (parcel) in square footage or acreage and the property 
class.  Building improvements include the size of the structure (e.g. living area of a home), 
number of bedrooms, and bathroom counts. 
 
Accuracy of these descriptions are important as these property characteristics are the 
basis for its annual Notice of Assessment , including the net taxable value.  The amount of 
the net taxable value and tax rate of the property class are used to calculate the annual tax bill. 
 
Each year a Notice of Assessment is sent to property owners/taxpayers of each taxable parcel 
on or before  December 15 .  For more information of the importance of reviewing your annual 
Notice of Assessment, click: https://www.realpropertyhonolulu.com/media/1686/review-
notice.pdf 
 
Any owner/taxpayer who is aggrieved by an assessment may appeal to the board of review or 
the tax appeal court on or before  January 15 .  Appeal information can be found at 
https://www.realpropertyhonolulu.com/appeals/general-information/.  
 
The assessment information displayed on the annual Notice of Assessment is based on known 
property descriptions. Any possible discrepancy of the property description may be reported to 
our office by calling (808) 768-3799 or via an email to bfsrpmailbox@honolulu.gov.  
 
SAMPLE PROPERTY RECORD

--- Text from PDF (https://realproperty.honolulu.gov/media/yrsbnv3d/residential-a_17.pdf) ---
The Residential A C lassification  - was created via Bill 42 (2013) which became Ord 13 -33, 
effective tax years beginning July 1, 2014 and thereafter.  Ord 13 -41 soon followed to clarify 
technical aspects of vacant residential zoned land.  
 
Revised Ordinances of Honolulu Section 8 -7.1 (por.)  
 
(i) “Resident ial A” shall mean a parcel, or portion thereof, which:  
 (1) Is improved with no more than two single family dwelling units; and  
  (A) Has an assessed value of $1,000,000 or more;  
  (B) Does not have a home exemption; and  
  (C) Is zoned R -3.5, R -5, R-7.5, R-10 or R -20 or is dedicated for residential use ; 
 (2) Is vacant land zoned R -3.5, R -5, R-7.5, R -10 or R -20 and has an assessed value 
  of $1,000,000 or more; or  
 (3) Is a condominium unit with an assessed valuation of $1,000,000 or more and does 
  not hav e a home exemption.  
 Residential A excludes any parcel, or portion thereof, improved with military housing 
 located on or outside of a military base.  
 
On A pril 7, 2017, Bill 7 (2017), CD2 was enacted to create Ord 17 -12 which amends the single 
tax rate  of the Residential A classification to a two tiered rate system applicable to tax years  
beginning July 1, 2017.  
 
The tiers are as follows:  
(1) Residential A Tier 1  tax rate: applied to the net taxable value of the property up to 
$1,000,000; and  
(2) Residential A Tier 2 tax rate: applied to the net taxable value of the property in excess 
of $1,000,000.

--- Text from PDF (https://realproperty.honolulu.gov/media/nzaftw25/2024-how-to-calculate-real-property-taxes_101124.pdf) ---
How To Calculate Real Property Taxes 
1. Obtain the total net taxable value and property class of a parcel from 
honolulupropertytax.com   scroll down to accept disclaimer  search by address or 
TMK (parcel ID)  scroll down to Assessment Information 
 
 
2. Obtain the tax rate from realproperty.honolulu.gov   STATE REPORTS  desired year 
 State of Hawaii - Tax Rates  find tax rate of property class 
 
 
3. Divide the Total Net Taxable Value by $1,000, then multiply the quotient by the tax rate 
to calculate the annual real property taxes.  The following calculation has a Total Net 
Taxable Value of $1,057,100, in the Residential class, and with a tax rate of $3.50 per 
thousand of the net taxable amount.
