Source URL: https://sbrrb.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Small Business Regulatory Review Board – Helping make Hawaii rules more small business friendly Skip to the main content DBEDT - Department of Business Economic Development & Tourism Small Business Regulatory Review Board State of Hawaii Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism Small Business Regulatory Review Board Search toggle Menu toggle Search search Home Meetings dropdown Meetings Agendas & minutes Get Involved dropdown Small business resources For government agencies For small businesses & associations The rulemaking process Submit a regulation for review Rule status About dropdown About us Join our board Contact us News Reports Do you find Hawaii administrative rules challenging for small business? Let's help make rules friendlier for small business Do you find Hawaii administrative rules challenging for small business? Who are you? Small business owner or association You can have an incredible impact on rules affecting your business. Learn how Small business owner or association Government agency Attend a board meeting to share your new rules or rule changes. Learn how Government agency Positive impacts for small business Read about SBRRB success stories and actions taken on rules that have an impact on Hawaii’s small businesses. 12th Annual Hawai’i Small Business Fair The SBRRB had the opportunity to engage one on one with small business owners and help provide information about the SBRRB and our mission. We are honored to connect with many of Hawaii's entrepreneurs! Tessa Gomes featured in PBN Another one of our very own is mentioned in an article done by the Pacific Business News, Tessa Gomes, owner of Fred and Kate Events. The company specializes in event... Read more... Tessa Gomes featured in PBN Vice Chair Mary Albitz featured in PBN On March 31, 2022 Vice Chair Mary Albitz was featured in a great article by the Pacific Business News. She and her husband own and operate Island Art Party, Maui’s... Read more... Vice Chair Mary Albitz featured in PBN Read more stories Our next meeting is: November 21, 2024 Join us at our monthly meeting to weigh in on Hawaii goverment rules that affect small business Who are we? Small business owners, just like you! The Small Business Regulatory Review Board is an eleven-member board comprised of small business owners and officers from across the State. Meet the members of our board Small business owners, just like you! Your partners in government SBRRB is administratively attached to DBEDT, which offers a wide variety of programs to help businesses grow and be successful. Get business support Your partners in government Follow us! @sbrrbhi @sbrrbhi Make a difference If you are a current or former owner or officer of a business, live in Hawaii, and have an interest in helping small business in Hawaii. Join our board Keep in touch Sign up for our monthly newsletter Email Address Newsletter archive Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Policies Terms of use Privacy policy Accessibility Powered by NIC | Copyright © State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
