Source URL: https://tobacco.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Tobacco Control – Chronic Disease Prevention & Health Promotion Division Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii, Department of Health Chronic Disease Prevention & Health Promotion Division Search this site Search button Facebook icon Youtube icon Instagram icon Priorities & Highlights Contact CDPHPD Home CDPHPD Main Page Tobacco Prevention and Control Advisory Board COVID-19 Resources Primary Prevention Physical Activity & Nutrition PAN Main Page Breastfeeding SNAP-Ed School Health Worksite Wellness Tobacco Prevention Chronic Disease Management Asthma Cancer Diabetes Heart Disease & Stroke Policy, Communications & Planning Policy Communication Planning Surveillance, Evaluation & Epidemiology About SEEO Reports & Publications Bilingual Health Services DOH Home Tobacco Prevention & Control Section Primary Prevention Tobacco Prevention and Control Section Priority Populations Preventing Youth and Young Adult Tobacco Use Quitting Tobacco Secondhand Smoke Data and Resources Resource Library Businesses and Retailer Resources Contact Us Tobacco Prevention and Control Section The Tobacco Prevention and Control Section (TPC) at the Hawaiʻi State Department of Health, is the official state government program addressing tobacco prevention and control in Hawaiʻi. TPC is primarily funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) – Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) – through its comprehensive National Tobacco Control Program (NTCP). TPC provides the infrastructure for the state’s strategic efforts to promote policy, systems, and environmental change by fostering collaboration among the state and local tobacco control communities. TPC supports developing community capacity by funding local coalitions, and by providing oversight, technical assistance, and training to eliminate the health and economic burden of tobacco use across the state. HAWAI’I TOBACCO PREVENTION & CONTROL PLAN 2030 The Hawai’i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 2030 is the result of the input and collaboration of many organizations and individuals throughout the state. Building on a framework of achieving health equity for populations at greatest risk, the plan presents bold objectives and recommendations for strategies, outputs, and targeted outcomes. Hawai’i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 2030 OUR VISION: A Hawai’i that is free from tobacco use, nicotine addiction, and exposure to secondhand smoke. THE PROBLEM: Tobacco use remains the leading cause of preventable death and disease in the U.S. and in Hawaiʻi. Cigarette smoking harms nearly every organ of the body and can cause cancer, heart disease, stroke, lung diseases, type 2 diabetes, and chronic health conditions. Every year in Hawai‘i tobacco: Kills 1,400 adults and contributes to 21,000 premature deaths in children and youth Costs each Hawai’i resident household $849 in state and federal taxes Costs $526 million in healthcare dollars directly attributed to smoking Costs $142 million in Medicaid costs related to smoking The TPC adheres to the four main goals developed by the Center for Disease Control Office of Smoking and the Health (CDC/OSH) and the National Tobacco Control Program (NTCP) to guide its comprehensive tobacco control programs: Goal 1. Advance health equity by identifying and eliminating tobacco product-related inequities and disparities. Tobacco use affects some populations more than others based on factors such as race and ethnicity, income, mental health and substance use, and sexual orientation. Learn More >> Goal 2. Prevent the initiation of tobacco use among youth and young adults. Cigarette smoking by young people has immediate adverse health consequences, accelerates the development of chronic diseases across the life course, and can lead to addiction later in life. Teen vaping is an epidemic in Hawai’i and many teens who vape become adult smokers. Learn More >> Goal 3. Promote quitting tobacco among adults and youth. Promoting tobacco cessation and helping tobacco users to quit reduces tobacco-related disease, death, and healthcare costs. Quitting tobacco use has immediate and long-term health benefits and all smokers should be encouraged to quit. Learn More >> Thinking about quitting? Call 1-800-QUIT-NOW or visit the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline Or check out local resources: Clean Break – 2024 Tobacco quit resources in Hawai’i Goal 4. Eliminate exposure to secondhand tobacco smoke to all populations. Secondhand smoke can cause premature death and disease in nonsmoking adults, children, and even pets . There is no safe level of secondhand smoke and even brief exposure can increase the risks of heart disease, stroke, cancer, and heart attacks in adults. In children exposure elevates risk of severe asthma, ear infections, and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) . Learn More >> Hawaii Specific Data and Information on Tobacco Use and Prevention Hawaii Health Matters: Indicators: Tobacco Use Prevention & Control Tracker Visit HHSP.hawaii.gov Download and interact with the Healthy Hawaii Strategic Plan 2030 Visit healthyhawaii.com for tips on healthy living About Us Program Directory Info Line 808-586-4400 Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact e-mail Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://hhsp.hawaii.gov/assets/pdf/HHSP_Tobacco_Plan_WEB.pdf) ---
Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention  
and Control Plan 2030 2Aloha kākou,
The Hawai‘i State Department of Health, the Tobacco Prevention and Control 
Trust Fund Advisory Board, and the Coalition for a Tobacco-Free Hawai‘i are 
pleased to present the Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 2030 
(TPC Plan 2030). This plan is the result of the input and collaboration of many 
organizations and individuals, and the plan’s primary focus continues to be 
Hawai‘i’s priority populations who are at greatest risk. 
Tobacco use remains the leading cause of preventable death and disease in 
Hawai‘i despite decades of policies, systems, and environmental change. Low 
prevalence rates among the general population conceal the fact that smoking 
continues to disproportionately affect populations and community groups by 
race and ethnicity, income and education, behavioral health disorders, sexual 
orientation and gender identity, and youth vulnerability. 
Building on a framework of achieving health equity, the TPC Plan 2030 presents 
bold objectives and recommendations for strategies, outputs, and targeted 
outcome indicators. The priorities of the plan are to expand population-based 
approaches that augment social norms and behaviors that reduce tobacco 
use and secondhand smoke exposure; cultivate and strengthen partnerships to 
foster innovative, culturally-appropriate solutions with entities who know and 
serve communities disproportionately burdened by tobacco use; and mobilize 
partners to reverse the rapid onset of youth and young adult use of e-cigarettes 
and other emerging tobacco products.
We thank all our partners for their valuable contributions and invite new partners 
to join us in focusing on the shared goals of this plan to ultimately achieve 
tobacco-free living in Hawai‘i.
‘A‘ohe Hana Nui Ke Alu ‘Ia
No task is too big when done together by all
Elizabeth A. Char, M.D.  
Director, Hawai‘i State  
Department of Health Control  
Trust Fund Advisory BoardAnthea Wang, M.D.  
Chair, Tobacco Prevention and 
Control Advisory BoardKilikina Mahi  
Chair, Coalition for a 
Tobacco-Free Hawaii,  
Hawaii Public Health Institute
The TPC Plan can be accessed, downloaded, and interacted with at the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.gov
Director’s Letter3The Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan  represents the collaboration of many individuals and organizations 
who generously offered their valuable input, expertise and guidance. We appreciate the hard work and 
commitment by all the numerous community and state partners who contributed to the creation of this plan. 
For a full list of partners, contributors, and participants, please see page 41 .Table of Contents
Director’s Letter  ........................................................ 2
Introduction ............................................................ 4
Vision and Goals  ....................................................... 6
Healthy People 2030 Tobacco Key Areas ................................... 7
About the Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 2030  ................. 8
Purpose of the Plan .................................................. 8
TPC Plan Framework  ................................................. 9
Social Ecological Model ........................................... 9
Policy, Systems and Environmental Change .......................... 10
Cross-Cutting Themes ............................................ 11
Sector Areas  ................................................... 12
Tobacco Prevention & Control Landscape .................................. 13
Priority Goals  ......................................................... 16
Goal Area 1: Identify and Eliminate Tobacco-Related Disparities  
among Priority Population Groups  ...................................... 17
Goal Area 2: Prevent the Initiation of Tobacco Use  
among Youth and Young Adults  ........................................ 18
Goal Area 3: Promote Quitting among Adults and Youth ..................... 20
Goal Area 4: Eliminate the Exposure to Secondhand Smoke to All Populations  ..22
Priority Populations  .................................................... 24
Native Hawaiians  .................................................. 24
People with Low Socio-Economic Status (SES)  .......................... 26
People with Behavioral Health Conditions .............................. 27
 Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) ......................... 28
Youth and Young Adults  ............................................. 29
Objectives and Strategies ............................................... 31
How the Plan Was Developed  ........................................... 36
Implementation  ....................................................... 37
Long-term Measures  ................................................... 37
Statewide Partner Agencies and Programs ................................. 40
Acknowledgements  .................................................... 41
References  ........................................................... 4231%
of Hawai‘i's public 
high school students 
use e-cigarettesIN HAWAI‘I, ABOUT
13% OF ADULTS  AND 
5% OF HIGH SCHOOL  
YOUTH CURRENTLY 
SMOKE CIGARETTES.
1,400
ADULTS DIE
FROM SMOKING
EACH YEARINTRODUCTION
Since the 2016–2020 Tobacco Use Prevention and 
Control in Hawai‘i Five-year Strategic Plan , there 
have been significant changes in the state’s tobacco 
prevention and control landscape. Combustible 
tobacco prevalence and youth initiation rates 
declined, quit attempts increased, and influences of 
cigarette marketing on youth decreased. 
Hawai‘i has among the highest cigarette excise tax 
and rate of retail compliance to laws prohibiting 
underage tobacco sales in the nation. Numerous 
legislative actions around secondhand smoke 
protection, youth access to tobacco, and limitations 
on the age of sale and use of tobacco products, 
including e-cigarettes, have been enacted. 
Despite these advances, tobacco use remains 
the leading cause of preventable disease and 
death in Hawai‘i. The state’s current adult smoking 
prevalence is 13% and is far higher than the Healthy 
People 2030 target of 5%.1,2 Smoking continues 
to disproportionately affect Hawai‘i’s vulnerable 
populations and community groups by race and 
ethnicity, income and education, mental health 
and substance use, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and 
transgender (LGBT) orientation.1 The rapid rise in 
youth use of e-cigarettes and other novel products 
has accelerated to epidemic proportions, threatening 
the cumulative efforts to protect the next generation 
from the deadly effects of nicotine addiction. More 
work is needed to promote tobacco prevention 
for youth and young adults and to assure that 
populations with higher levels of tobacco use have 
access to cessation programs and services. Therefore, 
a major focus of the TPC Plan 2030 is tobacco control 
for the priority and most vulnerable communities, 
including youth and young adults.Introduction1 
Disparities
2 
Prevention
3 
Cessation4 
Secondhand  
Smoke
6VISION
A Hawai‘i free from  
tobacco use, nicotine  
addiction, and exposure 
to secondhand smoke.
GOALS
 The tobacco prevention and control 
community of Hawai‘i adopted the four 
main goals developed by the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) to guide comprehensive tobacco 
control programs:3
 » Goal 1:   Identify and eliminate
tobacco-related disparities among 
population groups.
 » Goal 2:  Prevent the initiation of tobacco 
use among youth and young adults.
  » Goal 3:  Promote quitting among adults 
and youth.  
  » Goal 4:  Eliminate the exposure to 
tobacco smoke to all populations.Vision and Goals7HEALTHY PEOPLE 2030  
TOBACCO KEY AREAS
The National Healthy People 2030 framework sets data-driven national objectives 
to improve the country’s health and well-being over the next decade. The Healthy 
People 2030 Tobacco Control Goal is to reduce illness, disability, and death related 
to tobacco use and secondhand smoke. The TPC Plan 2030 adheres to the objectives 
organized into six key areas:
 »  Tobacco Use-General:  Reducing prevalence, increasing tobacco cessation and 
access to services, and expansion of smoke-free environments.
 »   Adolescents: Reducing prevalence of cigarette, cigar, e-cigarette, and flavored 
tobacco product use, and elimination of smoking initiation, exposure to 
secondhand smoke, and tobacco marketing.
 »   Cancer: Reducing lung cancer death rate due to tobacco use.
 »  Health Care: Increasing proportion of 
adults who get advice about quitting 
smoking and increasing use of smoking 
cessation counseling and medication 
among adults who smoke.
 »  Health Policy: Elimination of policies 
that preempt local tobacco control 
policies, increasing taxes on cigarettes, 
increasing the legal age of sale of 
tobacco products, and increasing 
policies for smoke-free multi-
unit housing.
 »  Pregnancy and Childbirth: Increasing 
successful quit attempts or abstinence 
among pregnant women.Healthy People 2030 Tobacco Key AreasTobacco-free  
Hawai‘iBe community centered
Focus on health equityAlign with Healthy 
Hawai‘i Strategic PlanEND GAME
HHSP icon with program area icons
ASTHMA
TOBACCO
CANCER
DIABETES
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION
8ABOUT THE HAWAI‘I TOBACCO 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN 2030
Purpose of the Plan
The TPC Plan 2030 provides guidance for tobacco 
prevention, education, and cessation program 
development through program implementation, 
legislative action, and community empowerment. 
The plan presents a comprehensive, tobacco control 
approach representing a coordinated effort between 
public, private, and non-profit organizations, 
tobacco control specialists, public health advocates, 
policy makers, and representative communities 
throughout Hawai‘i. 
As tobacco is a risk factor for many chronic illnesses, 
including heart disease, cancer, and diabetes, the 
TPC Plan 2030 remains closely aligned with the 
activities of other state chronic disease prevention 
and management plans, including the Healthy 
Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030, the Hawai‘i Asthma 
Plan 2030, the Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030, the Hawai‘i 
Diabetes Plan 2030, The Hawai‘i Heart Disease and 
Stroke Plan 2030 and the Hawai‘i Physical Activity 
and Nutrition Plan 2030.Recognizing the disproportionate impact that 
tobacco has on certain communities, the TPC Plan 
2030 expands efforts that incorporate fundamental 
principles of health equity.4 About the Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention 
and Control Plan 2030
Purpose of the PlanSociety
Federal, state, and local policy, systems,  
and environmental levelsAdvocacy and legislation that creates 
statewide policy and environmental changes
Community
Neighborhoods, cities, and countiesAdvocacy, policy, and legislation around 
secondhand smoke exposure, access to 
tobacco, marketing of tobacco products
Organizational
Schools, health care systems, businesses, 
government and community-based 
organizationsEducational campaigns about tobacco 
use, organizational policy around 
secondhand smoke or smoking cessation
Interpersonal  
Relationships including those with  
family, friends, co-workers, support 
groups, social and cultural networksSocial support for quitting smoking and 
preventing secondhand smoke exposure
Individual  
Individual attitudes, beliefs, knowledge,  
and behaviors  Public health campaigns to impact 
awareness, knowledge, values, beliefs, 
and attitudes about tobacco use including 
secondhand smokeLARGEST  
IMPACT
SMALLEST  
IMPACTSocial Ecological Model
IndividualInterpersonalOrganizationalCommunitySociety
9Plan Framework
The TPC Plan 2030 incorporates principles of the Social Ecological Model and is aligned with the 
four major national tobacco control program goal areas. The plan prioritizes goals, objectives, and 
strategies that lead to policy, systems, and environmental change. Objectives were developed using 
current data, best practices, and evidence-based science, and reflect one or more cross-cutting themes. 
The TPC Plan 2030 is organized into four sector areas: Community Design and Access, Education, 
Health Care, and Worksite.*
 »  SOCIAL ECOLOGICAL MODEL
To align with national priorities and work in coordination 
with other chronic disease plans for the state, the TPC 
Plan 2030 relies on the Social Ecological Model. This 
model recognizes the interwoven relationship that exists 
between the individual and his/her environment. While 
individuals are responsible for maintaining a healthy 
lifestyle, behavior can be largely determined by the 
environment in which they live through social norms, 
attitudes, and public policies. Effective chronic disease 
prevention programs should address multiple levels 
of the model with attention on policy, systems, and 
environmental change.
Tobacco Interventions Based on the Social Ecological Model
*Additional information on the plan framework can be found at the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.govSocial Ecological ModelTPC Plan Framework10»  POLICY, SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE
Integral to the structure and design of the TPC Plan 2030 is the focus on policy, systems, and 
environmental change. The plan’s long-term goals, objectives, and strategies were developed to 
align with national guidelines and recommendations and to reflect or lead to policy, systems, or 
environmental change.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Changes that are made to the 
physical/built environment.
Physical (structural changes 
or programs or service), 
social (a positive change 
in attitudes or behavior 
about policies that promote 
health) and economic 
factors (presence of 
financial disincentives or 
incentives to encourage a 
desired behavior).SYSTEMS
Changes made to rules 
within an organization.
Systems change and policy 
change often work hand-
in-hand. Often systems 
change focuses on changing 
infrastructure within a 
school, park, worksite, or 
health setting. POLICY
Policies at the legislative or 
organizational level.
Institutionalizing new rules 
or procedures as well as 
passing laws, ordinances, or 
resolutions are examples of 
policy changes.Policy, Systems and Environmental 
Change11»  CROSS-CUTTING THEMES
After review of evidence-based practices for chronic disease prevention, program staff and partners 
identified six cross-cutting themes that recur frequently throughout the plan.
Objectives in the TPC Plan 2030 were developed to reflect one or more of these cross-cutting themes:
 
Epidemiology, 
Surveillance, and 
EvaluationEpidemiology, surveillance, and evaluation should be used to 
understand the effectiveness and progress in achieving a plan’s goals 
and objectives. Data should be utilized to monitor progress, address 
gaps in health improvements, and prioritize next steps.
Quality of LifeQuality of life can encompass many areas of life, such as psychological 
well-being, social life, support system, health status and function, and 
functional or career well-being.
Community Clinical  
LinkagesCommunity clinical links help ensure that people with or at high risk of 
chronic diseases have access to the resources they need to prevent 
or manage these diseases. Improved links between the community 
and clinical setting offer community delivery of proven programs that 
clinicians can refer patients to.
Health EquityHealth disparities exist when there is a major difference in a health 
outcome between population groups. Chronic disease prevention and 
management plans should recognize the importance of addressing 
health equity and prioritize population groups more likely to 
experience poor health outcomes.
Public Education and 
CommunicationsPublic education and communications can be used as strategic 
tools to influence people, places, and environmental conditions. 
Public education and communications can be prioritized to advance 
the goals and objectives of each chronic disease prevention and 
management plan.
CoordinationA coordinated approach and common vision are essential to 
achieving the goals and objectives of this framework. Cross-coalition 
collaboration, greater information sharing, and the leveraging of 
resources will provide a more effective approach to implementing 
the policy, systems, and environmental change necessary to support 
healthy lifestyles and reduce premature death due to chronic disease.Cross-Cutting ThemesSECTOR AREAS 
Places (both physical & virtual) where policy,  
systems, and environmental change can be established to 
support the formation and maintenance of healthy behaviors, 
achieving health equity, and maximizing chronic disease 
prevention, management, and treatment.COMMUNITY DESIGN & ACCESS 
Public spaces (parks, community  
centers, and places of worship),  
physical infrastructure  
(sidewalks and bike lanes),  
and retail locations
WORKSITE
Public and private work 
environmentsEDUCATION
Public and private childcare 
and aftercare facilities,  
pre-kindergarten through 
12th grade schools,  
and higher educationHEALTH CARE
Public and private 
health care 
delivery sites
12 »  SECTOR AREAS
The TPC Plan 2030 also utilizes a framework of four sectors: Community Design and Access, Education, 
Health Care, and Worksite. This approach acknowledges the complexity of disease origins and promotes 
strategies that occur in multiple settings, e.g., where people live, learn, work, and play. Policy, systems, 
and environmental change in each of these settings will allow healthy options to become the easiest 
choice for Hawai‘i residents.Sector Areas13Tobacco Prevention & 
Control Landscape
Tobacco use remains the leading cause of 
preventable death and disease in the U.S. and 
is a public health priority. Approximately 14% of 
adults and 6% of youth across the nation currently 
smoke cigarettes.5 
Cigarette smoking leads to disease and disability, 
and harms nearly every organ of the body as it 
causes cancer, heart disease, stroke, lung diseases, 
type 2 diabetes, and chronic health conditions.6  
In Hawai‘i, about 13% of adults and 5% of youth 
currently smoke cigarettes.7 Smoking claims 1,400 
adult lives each year and will contribute to 21,000 
premature deaths for children and youth under 18 
years old living in Hawai‘i.8 Annually, $526 million in 
healthcare costs are directly attributed to smoking in 
our state.8
Hawai‘i has made great strides in tobacco control 
efforts, which have resulted in an overall decrease in 
tobacco use—20% adult smokers in 1998 compared 
to 13% in 2018.9,1 Hawai‘i was the fourteenth state 
to pass comprehensive smoke-free legislation 
and has the fifth highest cigarette excise tax in 
the nation. In 2014, Hawai‘i enacted a state law 
on product placement that prohibits self-service 
displays and requires that all tobacco products be 
out of customer reach. Smoking became illegal on all 
state public housing properties, and some counties 
have prohibited smoking at beaches, parks, and 
bus stops. In 2015, the State banned e-cigarettes 
where smoking is prohibited by law. That same year 
Hawai‘i passed groundbreaking legislation, raising 
the minimum legal age to purchase tobacco products, 
including e-cigarettes, from 18 to 21 years (Hawai‘i 
Revised Statutes: Chapters 321, 328J, and 709–908). In 2019 Hawai‘i youth had among 
the highest e-cigarette use rates in 
the nation, with 31% of high school 
and 18% of middle school students 
reporting regular use.10Tobacco Prevention & Control Landscape14More recently, the state hospital system and the 
University of Hawai‘i systems have become 100% 
tobacco-free. On local levels, smoking and the use of 
e-cigarettes in automobiles with a minor present is 
now prohibited in all four counties. 
Despite these successes, there are groups and 
communities in Hawai‘i that have persistently higher 
smoking rates. Efforts have been made to reach 
these priority populations with some success, but 
disparities remain. Compared to the overall state 
prevalence of 13% (2018), the smoking prevalence 
in the Native Hawaiian population is 22%. Smoking 
rates for persons with a diagnosed depressive 
disorder are at 26%.1 Nearly one in four individuals 
who report excessive heavy drinking also smoke 
cigarettes, and 22% of the LGBT community smokes.1 
Among individuals in lower socioeconomic brackets, 
the smoking rate for those with incomes below 
$25,000 is 22%; the unemployed is 32%; and persons 
with a high school education or less is 26%.1In addition to the concern over smoking rate 
inequities among certain subgroups, the explosion 
of new and novel tobacco products, such as 
e-cigarettes, and their adoption by non-smoking 
youth has overwhelmed the public health community. 
The major gains in reducing combustible cigarette 
smoking among Hawai‘i’s youth are being eclipsed by 
the vaping phenomenon. In 2019, Hawai‘i youth had 
among the highest e-cigarette use rates in the nation, 
with 31% of high school and 18% of middle school 
students reporting regular use.10 High school students 
use rates in rural, neighbor island counties were even 
higher, with Kaua‘i at 36%, Maui at 36%, and Hawai‘i 
at 35%.10
The harms associated with the rapid rise in youth 
use of e-cigarettes are becoming more evident. 
Higher numbers of students are reporting frequent 
use of e-cigarettes, predicting serious addiction.10 
Data show the detrimental impact of nicotine on the 
developing brain can include difficulty with attention, 
memory, and learning.11 In the long-term, nicotine 
can impair decision-making and increase the risk for 
addiction to other substances.12,13Current adult cigarette smoking among Hawai‘i’s priority populations 
and Healthy People 2030 targets
Native 
Hawaiian Low Income 
(<$25,000) Low 
Educational 
AttainmentReported 
Poor Mental 
Health DaysPeople with 
DepressionExcessive 
DrinkingUnemployed Lesbian, Gay, 
Bisexual, & 
TransgenderSTATE 
AVERAGE
(13%)22.1%32.3%
26.4%24.9% 25.5%24.0%
21.6%22.3% 
 HP /two.lf/zero.lf/three.lf/zero.lf 
GOAL
8.3% HP /two.lf/zero.lf/three.lf/zero.lf 
GOAL
8.2% HP /two.lf/zero.lf/three.lf/zero.lf 
GOAL
12.0%   HP /two.lf/zero.lf/three.lf/zero.lf 
GOAL
9.8% HP /two.lf/zero.lf/three.lf/zero.lf 
GOAL
9.3% HP /two.lf/zero.lf/three.lf/zero.lf 
GOAL
9.5%   HP /two.lf/zero.lf/three.lf/zero.lf 
GOAL
9.0%   HP /two.lf/zero.lf/three.lf/zero.lf 
GOAL
8.1%   
LOW SES BEHAVIORAL HEALTH DISORDERS
15In 2019, nationally, 1.6 million high school and middle 
school youth reported use on at least 20 days a 
month (34% high school and 18% of middle school 
e-cigarette users).14 One out of five high school 
e-cigarette users reported daily use.14 Youth who 
use e-cigarettes have been unwitting casualties in 
the outbreak of e-cigarette or vaping product use 
associated lung injury (EVALI), which by January 
2020 had resulted in 2,711 confirmed hospitalizations 
and 60 deaths.15
This rapid increase in youth use of e-cigarettes 
and the sudden outbreak of EVALI prompted the 
federal government to enact stricter prohibitions 
on tobacco products. Measures enacted in January 
2020 raised the national, legal age of sale for 
tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, from 18 
to 21. These measures also prioritized control of 
the sale of cartridge-based or pod-based flavored tobacco products. These regulations failed, 
however, to limit online sales or regulate the 
sales of e-liquid and other popular varieties of 
e-cigarettes (e.g., disposable, tank systems, and 
refillable e-cigarettes). Moreover, in Hawai‘i 
e-cigarettes are only subject to general excise 
tax, and licensure and permitting are not required 
of vendors. This lack of regulation leaves youth 
vulnerable to an easily accessible and highly 
marketed (over 9 billion marketing dollars 
annually) product.16 Moving forward, regulation 
of e-cigarettes, expansion of smoke-free policies, 
increases in tobacco prices, youth access policies, 
culturally tailored cessation services, and other 
innovative strategies are needed to reach our 
most vulnerable communities.1
Disparities
2
Prevention
3
Cessation4
Secondhand  
Smoke
16Priority Goals
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Tobacco Control Program Goals
The tobacco prevention and control community of Hawai‘i adopted the four main goals 
developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to guide comprehensive 
tobacco control programs. Implementing evidence-based policy, systems, and environmental 
strategies within these goal areas provide a multi-pronged approach to eliminating the 
burden of tobacco use from the State.Priority Goals17Identify and Eliminate Tobacco-Related  
Disparities among Population Groups  
(Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System 2018 and Youth Risk Behavior Survey 2019)
Identifying and eliminating the
disproportionate health and economic
burden of tobacco use among
Hawai‘i’s populations is a top priority
over the next ten years.
This Goal Area focuses on achieving 
equity and eliminating tobacco-related 
disparities to help accelerate the decline 
in the prevalence of tobacco use.17,18 To 
maximize the impact of these efforts, 
members of disparately affected 
groups will be engaged to establish 
infrastructure and build tobacco control 
capacity within their communities.
Hawai‘i will focus on decreasing the 
prevalence of tobacco use among the 
following priority populations:PRIORITY POPULATIONS CURRENT2030  
TARGET
Native Hawaiian 22.3%  8.3%LOW  
SOCIOECONOMIC  
STATUSLow Income 
(<$25,000)22.1% 8.2%
Unemployed 32.3% 12.0%
Low Educational 
Attainment26.4% 9.8%BEHAVIORAL  
HEALTH  
CONDITIONSReported Poor Mental 
Health Days 24.9% 9.3%
People with 
Depression25.5% 9.5%
Excessive Drinking 24.0% 9.0%
LGBT 21.6%  8.1%YOUTHYouth Middle School* 3.9% 3.4%
Youth High School* 5.3% 3.4%
Youth Middle School 
(E-cigarettes)*17.7% 10.5%
Youth High School 
(E-cigarettes)*30.6% 10.5%
OVERALL (Adult) 13.4% 5.0%1
Target setting methods were derived from examples in Healthy People 2020, Tobacco Use. A methodology to achieve decreases in smoking rates in priority popu -
lations at rates that are proportionally equivalent to the overall targeted rate of change for the State of Hawai‘i was used to develop targets. For the overall adult 
smoking rate, a 62.7% decrease in smoking rate from 13.4% in 2018 is needed to meet the Healthy People 2030 target of 5%. Therefore, targets for priority groups are 
set based upon a 62.7% decrease in smoking prevalence for each.
*For youth measures, target setting methods were inspired by HP 2030 targets which combined grades 6–12. The TPC 2030 Plan applies these targets to each individ -
ual measure aspirationally.Goal Area 1: Identify and Eliminate 
Tobacco-Related Disparities  
among Priority Population GroupsCigarette smoking by young people has immediate adverse health consequences, accelerates the 
development of chronic diseases across the life course, and can lead to addiction later in life.6 
Preventing the initiation of tobacco use among adolescents and young adults is a national public 
health priority. Comprehensive tobacco control programs have been proven effective at reducing 
tobacco use and initiation by adolescents and young adults. 
Hawai‘i will track objectives and measure progress towards decreasing youth susceptibility to 
experimentation with tobacco products, including e-cigarettes and other emerging products, and 
preventing the initiation of tobacco use among adolescents and young adults.  Prevent the Initiation of Tobacco Use among 
Youth and Young Adults 2Goal Area 2: Prevent the Initiation of 
Tobacco Use  
among Youth and Young AdultsData Source: 1 SYNAR Amendment,  2 Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS),  3 Department of Taxation,  4 Coalition for a Tobacco-Free Hawaii –  
Community Assessment Tool survey
19OUTCOME INDICATOR HHSP SECTOR(S) CURRENT2030  
TARGET
Decreased exposure 
to tobacco marketing 
and availability of 
tobacco products  Proportion of retailers 
selling tobacco products 
to youthCommunity Design 
& Access  5.3%1 
(Oct 2017)1.3%
Proportion of young 
people reporting that they 
have purchased tobacco 
products from the internetCommunity Design 
& Access  Pending2Pending
Proportion of Youth 
reporting that they have 
received tobacco products 
from a social sourceCommunity Design 
& Access  Pending2Pending
Increased price of 
tobacco products  Amount of tobacco product 
taxes and feesCommunity Design 
& Access  $3.20/pack3$4.10/pack  
(HP 2020)
Reduced initiation of 
tobacco useProportion of young people 
who report never having 
tried a tobacco productCommunity Design  
& Access, EducationCIGARETTE: 
89.5%2  
Middle School  
82.2%2  
High SchoolCIGARETTE: 
99.3%  
Middle School  
91.2%  
High School
E-CIG:  
69.4%2  
Middle School 
51.7%2  
High SchoolE-CIG:   
77.0%  
Middle School  
57.4%  
High School
Reduced tobacco-use 
prevalence among 
young peoplesPrevalence of tobacco use 
among young peopleCommunity Design  
& Access, Education  CIGARETTE: 
3.9%2  
Middle School 
5.3%2  
High SchoolCIGARETTE: 
3.4%  
Middle School 
3.4%  
High School  
(HP 2030)
E-CIG:  
17.7%2 
Middle School 
30.6%2  
High SchoolE-CIG:  
10.5%  
Middle School
10.5%  
High School  
(HP 2030)
Level of tobacco use 
among young peopleCommunity Design 
& Access, Education  Pending2 Pending 
Increased Restriction 
of Tobacco Use and 
Enforcement of Anti-
Tobacco Policies and 
Programs in Schools and 
on College/University 
CampusesProportion of Schools 
or colleges/ universities 
implementing 100% 
tobacco-free policiesEducation  Pending4Pending
Promoting tobacco cessation and helping tobacco users to quit will lead to reduced 
tobacco-related disease, death, and health care costs. Quitting tobacco use has immediate 
and long-term health benefits and should be encouraged in all smokers.6 
Promoting cessation among all populations is a core component of the comprehensive state 
tobacco control program to reduce tobacco use. Indicators to measure cessation efforts in 
Hawai‘i include increasing the number, quality, and availability of tobacco cessation resources; 
increasing the number of quit attempts by adults and adolescents; and reducing the prevalence 
of cigarette and e-cigarette use. Promote Quitting among Adults and Youth3Goal Area 3: Promote Quitting among 
Adults and Youth21OUTCOME INDICATOR HHSP SECTOR(S) CURRENT2030 
TARGET
Increased intention to 
quit, perceived harm 
of tobacco use, and 
awareness of support for 
cessation servicesProportion of tobacco users 
who are aware of available 
cessation servicesCommunity Design  
& Access  72.3%1 
(2018)81.0% 
Increased health care  
systems change to promote 
and support cessationProportion of health 
care systems that have 
fully implemented 
current evidence based 
cessation guidelinesHealth Care  Pending2Pending
Proportion of the population 
that has been asked by a 
health care professional 
about tobacco useHealth Care  54.0%1
(2017)61.0%
Proportion of tobacco users 
who have been advised to 
quit tobacco use by a health 
care professionalHealth Care  80.3%1  
(2017)90.7%
Increased policy and 
environmental change to 
support quitting, strengthen 
smokefree laws, and increase 
tobacco product priceAmount of tobacco taxes  
and feesCommunity Design  
& Access  $3.20/
pack3$4.10/
pack   
(HP 2020) 
Increased quit attempts and 
attempts using evidence-
based cessation servicesProportion of tobacco users 
who have made a quit 
attemptCommunity Design  
& Access, Education, 
Health Care, Worksite56.4%1 
(2018)63.2% 
Reduced Tobacco-Use  
prevalence and consumptionTobacco use prevalence Community Design 
& Access, Education, 
Health Care, Worksite  12.3%1 
(2018)5%  
(HP 2030)
Data Source: 1 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS),  2 Coalition for a Tobacco-Free Hawaii – Community Assessment Tool survey,   
3 Department of Taxation22Although substantial progress has been made in the adoption of comprehensive smoke-free 
policies that prohibit smoking in all indoor areas of workplaces and public places, many of 
Hawai‘i’s residents are still involuntarily exposed to secondhand smoke. 
Secondhand smoke exposure can cause premature death and disease in nonsmoking adults and 
children. There is no safe level of secondhand smoke exposure and even brief exposure can be 
harmful to health.19 Secondhand smoke increases the risk for developing heart disease, stroke, or 
having a heart attack in nonsmokers and can cause severe asthma attacks, ear infections and other 
respiratory conditions in children.19 Over the next ten years, Hawai‘i will track the proportion of 
youth and adults exposed to secondhand smoke in their homes.Eliminate the Exposure to Secondhand  
Smoke to All Populations4Goal Area 4: Eliminate the Exposure to 
Secondhand Smoke to All Populations23OUTCOME INDICATOR HHSP SECTOR(S) CURRENT2030  
TARGET
Implementation and 
enforcement of smokefree 
policiesProportion of the employed 
population covered by a 
workplace smokefree policy Worksite  Pending4Pending
Proportion of jurisdictions 
that have enacted laws 
prohibiting smoking in 
multiunit housingCommunity Design 
& Access  014
Proportion of childcare 
settings, schools, school 
districts, or college campuses 
with 100% tobacco-free 
policiesEducation  Pending 4Pending
Reduced exposure to  
secondhand smokeProportion of the adult 
population exposed to 
secondhand smoke in 
vehicles Community Design 
& Access  11.4%3  
(2018) 10.5%
Proportion of the youth 
population exposed to 
secondhand smoke in 
vehiclesCommunity Design 
& Access  15.9%  
Middle School  
(2019 YTS)* 0%
Middle School  
24.2%  
High School  
(2019 YTS)*0% 
High School
Proportion of multiunit 
housing residents exposed to 
secondhand smoke in their 
homes from nearby units or 
shared areasCommunity Design 
& Access  Pending3  
(new)Pending
Proportion of the youth 
population exposed 
to secondhand smoke 
originating in their homesCommunity Design 
& Access  27.4%2 
Middle School  
(2019 YTS)*0%  
Middle School 
30.4%2  
High School  
(2019 YTS)* 0%  
High School
Data Source: 1 Revised ordinances/county codes,  2 Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS),  3 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS),   
4 Coalition for a Tobacco-Free Hawaii – Community Assessment Tool survey
*This indicator will be found in YRBS 202124In order to effectively address tobacco use 
disparities and control in Hawai‘i, all populations and 
communities must be included in the development of 
policies and practices designed to reduce tobacco 
use and increase cessation. 
Traditional prevention programs and services must be 
socially, culturally, and linguistically tailored to reach 
these priority populations. The TPC Plan 2030 will 
focus on five populations that have a high smoking 
prevalence in Hawai‘i.
» Native Hawaiians
PREVALENCE: For Native Hawaiian adults in 
Hawai‘i, smoking (22%) and e-cigarette use (12%) 
is almost double the prevalence of other ethnic 
groups.1 Tobacco use rates for Native Hawaiians 
with household incomes below $25,000 is 31%, with 
less than high school education is 46%, and who are 
unemployed is 44%.1 Those who are between 35-44 
years of age (33%) show the highest smoking rates.1 
Smoking prevalence for Native Hawaiian high school 
students was 6.4% in 2019, down from 13% in 2013.23 Priority Populations
While there has been a general decline in 
smoking over the past decades, tobacco use 
continues to disproportionately affect population 
subgroups based on factors such as race/ethnicity, 
income, mental health and substance use, and 
sexual orientation.
A key focus of the TPC Plan 2030 is to eliminate 
tobacco-related disparities, defined as “differences 
in patterns, prevention and treatment of tobacco use; 
differences in risk, incidence, morbidity, mortality, 
and burden of tobacco-related illness that exist 
among special population groups in the United 
States; and related difference in capacity and 
infrastructure, access to resources and secondhand 
smoke exposure. ”  20
The social determinants of health, defined as “the 
non-medical and non-behavioral precursors of health 
and illness, ”21 have a significant impact on tobacco 
use. Examples of these factors include educational 
opportunities, poverty, gender identity, sexual 
orientation, culture, language, access to health 
services and insurance, racism, physical environments 
such as housing, community, or work environments, 
increased social stressors, or limited social supports.22“We believe that further efforts in tobacco control should 
recognize and give priority to the well-understood fact that 
smoking and tobacco use, and therefore disease, affect certain 
specific populations within the United States differently, with some 
suffering disproportionately from the tobacco epidemic.”
Achieving Health Equity in Tobacco Control, 2014 Priority Populations
Native Hawaiians25E-cigarette use was significantly higher among 
this sub-population (42%) than any other ethnic 
group.10 Current (39.5%) and ever (57.2%) use rates 
of e-cigarettes for Native Hawaiian/other Pacific 
Islander youth were among the highest in the country 
during 2014 and 2019.24 
It is clear that Native Hawaiians in Hawai‘i have 
not benefited equitably from the population-based 
tobacco control strategies that have positively 
impacted the state at large. This demonstrates a 
need for innovative ideas and programs tailored 
specifically to address smoking among the Native 
Hawaiian population. 
CESSATION: Native Hawaiians often access 
cessation services through the Hawai‘i Tobacco 
Quitline, the Native Hawaiian Healthcare Systems, 
regional community health centers, or other 
programs offering individual or group counseling 
cessation services. The Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline reports that 27% of callers identify as Native 
Hawaiian/part-Hawaiian.25 When these cessation 
services are used, the quit rate for Native Hawaiians 
is similar to other ethnic groups.26 However, the 
continued high rate of smoking among Native 
Hawaiians suggests that the traditional cessation 
services of counseling and nicotine replacement 
therapy alone are not adequate.
UNIQUE HEALTH IMPACTS:  Before contact 
with foreigners from Europe and the U.S., Native 
Hawaiians were a healthy people for 500 
years.27 Having withstood the historical impacts 
of colonization, Native Hawaiians today face 
complex health and socioeconomic issues, including 
higher rates of smoking. This has led to increased 
prevalence of cancer, heart disease, stroke, and 
diabetes compared to other ethnic populations.1,28 
Native Hawaiian adults also have the highest rate 
of asthma (24%) and the second highest rates of 
COPD (5%) as compared to other ethnicities in the 26In Hawai‘i, smoking rates among those with low SES 
are high. The smoking prevalence for individuals with 
incomes below $25,000 is 22%, 32% for unemployed 
adults, and 26% for persons with a high school 
education or less.1 A pattern of higher smoking rates 
among those with the lowest educational levels and 
lowest annual household incomes has persisted in 
Hawai‘i for more than 10 years.41
CESSATION: People of low SES have a desire 
to quit, and studies show that those who did 
not complete high school have similar levels of 
motivation to quit as those who complete college.42 
The difficulty in attaining or maintaining abstinence 
for this population may be a result of underuse 
of evidence-based cessation resources, chronic 
psychosocial stressors without adequate support, or 
a lack of other effective coping resources.42
Data from the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline (HTQL) 
reveal that 59% of callers had a household income of 
less than $25,000, 41% had a high school education 
or less, and approximately 26% were unemployed.43 
Twelve percent of the callers were uninsured, 36% 
were enrolled in Med-QUEST/Medicaid, and 12% 
had Medicare.43
The Health Equity and Accountability Act (HEAA) 
of 2020 is legislation that requires comprehensive 
tobacco cessation coverage, without cost-sharing or 
preauthorization, for all Medicaid beneficiaries. This 
expansion of cessation services is critical because 
those who receive Medicaid benefits smoke at 
higher rates than the average adult prevalence.44 
Additionally, a recent study found that if general 
adult smoking prevalence in Hawai‘i were to be 
reduced by one percent, approximately 16 million 
dollars of Medicaid spending would be saved by 
the State.45
UNIQUE HEALTH IMPACTS:  Chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer are most 
prevalent in the low SES population.46,47 Occupational 
exposure to secondhand smoke, often in combination 
with chemical agents related to blue collar or working 
class positions, is high in this population and often 
leads to smoking-related diseases.48 According to 
the National Survey of Children’s Health, rates of state.29 The next generation of Native Hawaiians 
also demonstrated high tobacco use rates.  Native 
Hawaiian high school student current e-cigarette 
use was 42% as compared to the state average of 
31% for that same age category.10 Current use of 
e-cigarettes for middle schoolers of Native Hawaiian 
ancestry was 28% as compared to the state average 
of 18%.30 
»  People with Low Socio-
Economic Status (SES)
PREVALENCE: In the U.S., tobacco-related 
disparities persist for those who are of low 
socioeconomic status.31 The CDC often classifies 
those who have lower levels of educational 
attainment, who are unemployed, or who live at, near, 
or below the U.S. federal poverty level as having 
low socioeconomic status.32 Smoking prevalence 
is higher among those with lower levels of income, 
who are uninsured or publicly insured, or who have 
a General Education Development (GED) certificate, 
than for wealthier or more educated counterparts.33 
Adults under 65 years old, who are either enrolled in 
Medicaid (Med-QUEST in Hawai‘i) or are uninsured, 
are almost twice as likely to smoke compared to 
those with private insurance (30% versus 15%).34 
National estimates show that approximately 75% of 
people who are homeless smoke.35 Those who are 
enrolled in Medicaid smoke at over twice the rate 
as those who are privately insured (24% compared 
to 11%).36 According to a study conducted in 2017, 
those representing low socioeconomic categories 
comprised roughly 72% of all smokers in the country.37
Making a living can be especially challenging in 
Hawai‘i, as it ranks highest in the nation for cost of 
living with average home prices, food, and energy 
expenses far exceeding other states.38 Additionally, 
Hawai ‘i’s rate of homelessness has consistently 
ranked among the uppermost in the country since 
2011.39,40 According to a report produced by the U.S. 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
Hawai ‘i’s rate (57%) of unsheltered homeless persons 
was listed third highest in 2019.40People with Low Socio-Economic Status 
(SES)27household smoking increase as income declines.49 
Approximately 34% of children nationwide live in 
households below the poverty level where someone 
smokes.49 This can compromise the health of children 
through exposure to secondhand smoke.49 
 »  People with Behavioral 
Health Conditions   
(Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders) 
PREVALENCE: Adults with mental health or 
substance use disorders smoke more cigarettes 
than those who do not have these disorders.50 
Approximately one in four U.S. adults has a 
behavioral health condition, and these individuals 
consume nearly 40% of all cigarettes smoked in 
the nation.50 Rates of ever trying and current use of 
e-cigarettes are higher among those with chronic 
mental illness.51
In Hawai‘i, 26% of adult smokers report having a 
diagnosed depressive disorder, and 25% report 
that their mental health was “not good” in the past 
30 days.1 Among binge drinkers, 25% are current 
smokers, while 28% of heavy drinkers smoke.1 Heavy 
drinking is defined as males having more than two 
drinks per day and females having more than one 
drink per day.1
Data from the 2014 Quality of Life Interview 
Survey (QOLI) administered by the Hawai‘i State 
Department of Health, Adult Mental Health Division 
(AMHD) to the severely and persistently mentally 
ill population in treatment programs reported that 
40% of those surveyed were smokers.52 The Hawai‘i 
Department of Health, Alcohol and Drug Abuse 
Division reports that 44% of clients that they serve 
are smokers.53
CESSATION:  Individuals with a mental health or 
substance use disorder are less likely to quit smoking 
and have less access to cessation services compared 
to those without a mental illness or substance abuse 
disorders.54,55,56 This population often faces additional challenges to quitting, and treatment can be 
complicated by factors such as low incomes, stressful 
living conditions, and lack of access to health 
insurance and healthcare.57,58,59
The national prevalence of smokers with a mental 
illness who have quit is only 35% compared with 
53% among individuals without a mental illness.60 
The Hawai‘i 2014 QOLI revealed that only 17% 
of participants reported trying to quit smoking, 
compared to 61% of the general population in that 
same year.61,62 
In general, most individuals with a mental health 
or substance use disorder typically want to quit 
smoking, are interested in information on cessation 
services and resources, and can successfully quit 
using tobacco.63 However, in Hawai‘i less than half of 
substance use treatment centers (42%) offer tobacco 
cessation services.64 
Research indicates that smoking cessation treatment 
can be associated with improvements in mental 
health, such as decreases in anxiety, depression, or 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) symptoms.65 
A study showed that continued smoking and 
initiation of smoking for non-smokers was associated 
with greater odds of substance use disorder relapse 
in survey respondents,66 whereas another review People with Behavioral Health 
Conditions28found that smoking cessation had a positive effect 
on improving substance use outcomes.67 Smoking 
cessation interventions, particularly group support in 
tandem with pharmacologic therapy, were found to 
be cost-effective when applied to the substance use 
disorder population.68
UNIQUE HEALTH IMPACTS:  People with mental 
illness carry a disproportionate share of the 
medical burden related to tobacco use.69 Nicotine 
has mood-altering effects that put persons with 
mental illness at a higher risk for cigarette use and 
nicotine addiction.70 There is a significantly increased 
risk of developing a range of chronic respiratory 
conditions, including COPD, chronic bronchitis, and 
asthma, in this population.71 Studies reveal higher 
hospitalization rates, higher medication doses, and 
more severe psychiatric symptoms among patients 
with schizophrenia who smoke than among those 
who do not.72 
Individuals with mental illness may develop cancer 
at up to a 2.6 times higher rate due to late stage 
diagnosis, and inadequate screening and treatment.73 
They also have an increased risk for diabetes, and 
experience high blood pressure and elevated levels 
of stress hormones and adrenaline.74,75 Those with 
serious mental illness are more likely to die 25 years 
earlier than the general population, and individuals 
in treatment from alcohol dependence are more 
likely to die from tobacco use than from their alcohol 
use.76,77,78 It is estimated that 200,000 smokers in the 
U.S. with a mental health or substance abuse disorder 
die from tobacco-related disease each year.79 »  Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual,  
and Transgender (LGBT)
PREVALENCE:  Predisposition to smoking in 
the LGBT community may be a result of higher 
stress associated with societal discrimination 
and marginalization; frequent patronage of bars 
and clubs; and higher rates of alcohol and drug 
use.80,81,82,83 Individuals from the LGBT communities 
are 1.5 to 2.5 times more likely to smoke cigarettes 
compared to their heterosexual counterparts.84 
National data report that the smoking rate is at least 
50% higher among the LGBT community.85 Although 
smoking data on LGBT youth are limited, smoking 
rates are estimated to be 38% to 59% higher than the 
general adolescent population.86 In Hawai‘i, 22% of 
LGBT adults report current smoking.1
CESSATION: Data on LGBT interest in quitting, quit 
attempts, and successful smoking cessation are 
very limited, but, in 2019, approximately 10.8% of 
callers to the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline identified as 
LGBTQ+.43 
UNIQUE HEALTH IMPACTS: The high prevalence 
of tobacco use among this community has led to 
an increased risk for lung cancer, breast cancer 
in women, and COPD compared to heterosexual  Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender 
(LGBT)29counterparts.81,87 Estrogen use in women who smoke 
has demonstrated a relationship to conditions such 
as pulmonary embolism, heart disease, stroke, and 
adverse liver effects. It is likely that these effects are 
also present in transsexual women.88 
Smoking weakens the immune system and makes 
it harder to fight off infections associated with 
human immunodeficiency virus infection and 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS). 
Smoking also increases the risk of HIV-associated 
malignancies and other cancers found among people 
living with HIV/AIDS.89 HIV positive individuals, who 
are at greater risk for heart disease because of 
lipodystrophy, significantly compound that risk by 
smoking.90,91 These risks are further exacerbated by 
lack of access to health care in this community: 23% 
lack health care access.92,93 » Youth and Young Adults
PREVALENCE: The state of Hawai‘i has made 
tremendous strides reducing cigarette smoking 
among youth. However, the use of electronic 
cigarettes (e-cigarettes) and vaping devices, has 
exponentially increased and become an epidemic 
among Hawai‘i’s youth and young adults. 
In 2018, U.S. high school current use of e-cigarettes 
rose 70% from rates in 2017. One in five high school 
students and one in 20 middle school students 
currently use e-cigarettes.94 High school cigarette 
smoking prevalence in Hawai‘i is 5%, which is among 
the lowest in the nation, but e-cigarette use in the 
state is higher than the national average, as 31% 
of Hawai‘i's public high school students and 18% 
of public middle school students reported currently 
using e-cigarettes.10
CESSATION: Data from the 2019 Hawai‘i Youth 
Tobacco Survey show that about 57% of middle 
school and 60% of high school students tried to stop 
and want to quit smoking or vaping.95 While there 
is a need to improve evidence-based cessation 
programs to increase quit attempts and successful 
cessation among youth and young adults, telephone-
based cessation services have limited attraction. 
HTQL numbers show that youth and young adults 
are either not aware, or not interested in Quitline 
services: in 2019, there were only 8 enrollees under 
age 18.43 Also in 2019, 21% of HTQL enrollees 
reported e-cigarette use within the past 30 days of 
intake, and the highest prevalence (69%) was seen 
among 18–21 year old enrollees.43 
Advances in new digital-based quit support services 
including texting, web, chat, and apps, show great 
promise in expanding the reach of tobacco use and 
dependence treatment systems for youth audiences. 
With a new quitline vendor, starting January 2021, 
the youth cessation program will provide access to 
youth-tailored resources, designed to help youth 
younger than 17. Participants receive personalized 
counseling from specially trained youth coaches 
via phone, text or e-chat. Additional information Youth and Young AdultsPercentageYouth rise in e-cigarette use compared with cigarette smoking in Hawai‘i 
(Youth Risk Behavior Survey) Youth rise in e-cigarette use in recent years compared with 
cigarette smoking in Hawai ‘i (YRBS)
Teens (grades 9-12) who smoke cigarettes
Young teens (grades 6-8) who smoke cigarettes
Teens (grades 9-12) who use e-cigarettes
Young teens (grades 6-8) who use e-cigarettes
2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019Teens (grades 9-12) who smoke cigarettes
Young teens (grades 6-8) who smoke cigarettes
Teens (grades 9-12) who use e-cigarettes
Young teens (grades 6-8) who use e-cigarettes2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019
0510152025303505101520253035
30and motivational support can be obtained by 
visiting the website, My Life My Quit , designed for 
youth audience with input from youth, to access 
educational materials and interactive activities. 
UNIQUE HEALTH IMPACTS: Preventing the 
initiation of tobacco use among adolescents and 
young adults is a national public health priority. 
Cigarette smoking by young people has immediate 
adverse health consequences, accelerates the 
development of chronic diseases across the life 
course, and can lead to addiction later in life.6 
Research has indicated that e-cigarettes threaten 
to addict a new generation to nicotine.96 Among adolescent non-smokers, e-cigarette use is 
associated with willingness to smoke, a predictor of 
future cigarette smoking.97 Studies have shown that 
nicotine exposure during adolescence can negatively 
impact brain development, cause serious addiction, 
and lead to persistent tobacco use.6,98 
Recent public health crises, such as the 2019 EVALI 
outbreak and the COVID-19 pandemic, have 
highlighted the importance of maintaining healthy 
respiratory and immune systems. Smoking and 
vaping increase susceptibility to infections and 
disease, which can ultimately decrease community 
resilience as a whole.31  Objectives  
and Strategies 
The TPC Plan 2030 objectives strive to create sustainable change that will transform our communities, 
schools, health care, and worksites to establish tobacco-free policies, tobacco cessation assistance, and 
prevention of tobacco initiation. Stakeholders developed the TPC Plan 2030 objectives to shape policy, 
systems and environmental change in the four sector areas: Community Design and Access; Education; 
Health Care; and Worksite. The objectives are showcased by sector area and include key strategies, 
baseline, and target measures. This comprehensive approach combines educational, clinical, regulatory, 
economic, and community strategies that aim to strengthen and fully implement current proven 
tobacco control measures; change the regulatory landscape to permit policy innovations; and empower 
communities to determine the best solutions regarding tobacco-related health.
The TPC Plan 2030 is meant to be a living document that is reviewed and updated throughout the plan’s 
timeframe. Implementation of the plan will be a collective effort by individuals and organizations across 
the state.
*Additional background information, including definitions of some terminology used in the objectives and 
strategies, can be found at the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.gov
 Objectives with this icon are being worked on by multiple program areas.
Community Design and Access Sector Objectives  
GOAL ›› All of Hawai‘i’s people will live in communities that have access to tobacco- 
and nicotine-free settings, healthy food choices, physical activity opportunities, evidence-
based chronic disease self-management programs, and minimal exposure to unhealthy 
options through policy, programs, communications, and environmental supports.
TOBACCO-01 OBJECTIVE
Enact at least five more county or state policies to decrease access to all tobacco products, including 
electronic smoking devices or other novel, emerging tobacco products.
STRATEGIES
• Establish regulatory parity for cigarettes, electronic smoking devices (ESDs), and emerging products, etc (e.g. 
impose taxes, licensing/permitting/restricting online sales, etc)
• Prohibit the sale of all flavored tobacco products including mentholBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5Objectives and Strategies32Education Sector Objectives  
GOAL ›› All of Hawai‘i’s educational settings will promote tobacco- and  
nicotine-free lifestyles, healthy eating, daily physical activity, and health 
management through programs, policies, environmental supports, and professional 
development opportunities.TOBACCO-03 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least two more county or state policies that eliminate exposure to secondhand smoke.
STRATEGIES
• Enact a smoke-free multi-unit housing ordinance in all four major counties
• Establish policies that increase resources for smoke-free policy enforcement (at parks, beaches, public housing, etc)BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2
TOBACCO-04 OBJECTIVE
All colleges and universities in the State of Hawai‘i will provide tobacco-free education and offer 
cessation services to their students, staff and faculty.
STRATEGIES
• Provide tobacco prevention and cessation information at incoming student orientation sessions
• Support student health groups to conduct peer-led tobacco cessation and prevention promotion throughout all 
campuses
• Create linkages between community tobacco treatment specialists, the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline and universities to 
tailor promotions to students and increase access to cessation services for young adultsBASELINE:  Pending   TARGET:  All colleges  
and universities  
in Hawai‘iTOBACCO-02 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least two more statewide policies that increase access to cessation services.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a MedQUEST policy that requires health plans to offer expanded evidence-based cessation service options
• Establish a policy to formally coordinate services between the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline (HTQL), community 
cessation providers, and a private or public insurance provider to promote access to services to consumers
• Establish a policy that requires insurance companies to expand reimbursement for youth cessationBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  233TOBACCO-05 OBJECTIVE
Develop and adopt at least one “alternative to suspension” model policy for youth vaping or tobacco 
offenses in Department of Education schools.
STRATEGIES
• Develop and adopt best practice enforcement responses/guidelines for youth vaping/tobacco offenses to guide 
law enforcement or Department of Education (DOE) school officials
• Pilot test a model alternative to suspension policy at a public or private school in Hawai‘i and use results to inform 
expansion into other schoolsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
TOBACCO-07 OBJECTIVE
Conduct at least ten more educational campaigns for parents or youth influencers to provide information 
about tobacco/vaping prevention or cessation statewide.
STRATEGIES
• Develop culturally appropriate educational campaigns for use in school systems such as, the Hawai‘i Association of 
Independent Schools, Charter School Commission, and Hawai‘i State Department of Education
• Develop education campaigns that can be used in a variety of media types (radio, television, mall ads, social media, etc)BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  10TOBACCO-06 OBJECTIVE
All colleges and universities in the State of Hawai‘i will have a 100% smoke-free or tobacco-free  
campus policy.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct outreach to universities and colleges without tobacco-free policies to provide education and information 
about the benefits of implementing a tobacco-free campus
• Provide technical support to individual private colleges and universities to encourage adoption of tobacco-free 
campus policiesBASELINE:  Pending   TARGET:  All colleges  
and universities  
in Hawai‘i34TOBACCO-09 OBJECTIVE
Integrate brief intervention education into at least five more health professional training programs as 
a graduation requirement, and into at least two health specialty organizations (e.g. American Academy 
of Pediatrics, American College of Surgeons, American Physical Therapy Association) as continuing 
education offerings.
STRATEGIES
• Identify relevant “health professional training programs”—such as pharmacy, nursing, medicine, dental hygiene, 
respiratory therapists, psychology, and other related allied health programs, where brief intervention education can 
be incorporated
• Coordinate brief intervention trainings with the behavioral health and substance use treatment communitiesBASELINE TARGET
Professional training programs Pending 5
Health specialty organizations Pending 2Health Care Sector Objectives  
GOAL ›› All of Hawai‘i’s health care systems will promote health equity 
and maximize utilization of prevention, early detection, and evidence-based chronic 
disease self-management services by improving coverage, health information 
technology, programs, practices, and guidelines.
TOBACCO-08 OBJECTIVE
Implement at least five more health systems change policies or projects for tobacco cessation per the 
Clinical Practice Guidelines and Million Hearts Tobacco Cessation Change Package.
STRATEGIES
• Integrate assessment, referral, and treatment interventions for tobacco/nicotine use in routine care in health care 
systems using electronic health records
• Provide staff and clinician education about cessation services to increase referral to treatment after identifying 
patients with tobacco/nicotine addictionBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  535Worksite Sector Objectives  
GOAL ›› All of Hawai‘i’s worksites will create a culture of wellness through 
supportive programs and policies that promote tobacco-and nicotine-free 
workplaces; breastfeeding; healthy food and beverage choices; physical activity and 
active commuter opportunities; health screenings; and early detection, risk reduction, 
and self-management of chronic diseases.
TOBACCO-11 OBJECTIVE
At least fifteen more worksites in the State of Hawai‘i will have 100% tobacco-free policies.
STRATEGIES
• Develop and define criteria for 100% tobacco-free worksite campuses
• Develop tobacco-free campus policies for state and county departmentsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  15TOBACCO-10 OBJECTIVE
At least five more large employers (including the State and Counties) will offer health plans that promote 
tobacco treatment coverage per U.S. Preventive Task Force recommendations.
STRATEGIES
• Engage unions to make changes to provide cessation coverage with no co-pay in insurance plans
• Facilitate employers’ capacity to offer programs or insurance plans that incentivize cessation or offers cessation 
services with no co-payBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5
TOBACCO-12 OBJECTIVE
Implement a statewide, comprehensive worksite wellness recognition program that at least  
10 very small-, 15 small-, 10 medium-, and 5 large-employers will participate in.
STRATEGIES
• Identify stakeholders and convene an advisory group to develop a Hawai‘i-specific, evidence-based worksite 
wellness recognition program that includes the following areas:
  •  Asthma •  Heart Disease and Stroke
  •  Cancer •  Physical Activity and Nutrition
  •  Diabetes •  Tobacco 
• Pilot the recognition program with a group of diverse employers and modify the program based on their 
feedback.ASTHMA-11  •  CANCER-13  •  DIABETES-07  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-09
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-19  
BASELINE:  
very small = 0
small = 0medium = 0
large = 0TARGET:  
very small = 10
small = 15medium = 10
large = 536Through facilitated 
discussions, the Committee 
acknowledged the 
complexity of tobacco 
control and agreed that 
solutions must occur at 
all levels of the Social 
Ecological Model.HOW THE PLAN  
WAS DEVELOPED
PLANNING PROCESS
The TPC Plan 2030 update and planning process 
began in June 2019. At that time, a small planning 
committee reviewed progress and performance 
measures of the previous strategic plan; looked at 
current and trending smoking prevalence data; and 
assessed programmatic and policy accomplishments.
A representative Steering Committee was convened 
to oversee the update process. Through facilitated 
discussions, the Committee acknowledged the 
complexity of tobacco control and agreed that 
solutions must occur at all levels of the Social 
Ecological Model (see page 9 ). The four sector 
areas (Community Design and Access, Education, 
Health Care and Worksite) of the Coordinated 
Chronic Disease Framework were incorporated 
and stratified into the best practice strategies 
for prevention, cessation, and secondhand 
smoke elimination. Theoretical frameworks that 
acknowledge the role of social determinants 
in exacerbating health disparities were also 
integrated to introduce new ways of engaging at-
risk communities.
Throughout the plan development process, the 
Steering Committee shared their progress with other 
stakeholders and the Hawai‘i Community Foundation 
(HCF), the non-profit entity statutorily selected to 
manage, invest, and administer the Hawai‘i Tobacco 
Prevention and Control Trust Fund. 
Additional in-person meetings were planned 
for the spring of 2020, but were changed due to 
COVID-19 precautions. Instead, new community 
engagement strategies were designed using virtual 
communication tools. Surveys and information were 
sent out electronically to solicit more input on the 
goals and objectives for the plan. In April 2020, 
the Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Trust 
Fund Advisory Board electronically participated in an overview of the strategic plan background and 
planning process. Their input was solicited through 
a survey tool and incorporated remotely. During 
the summer of 2020, the plan and implementation 
process were formalized. 
STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT 
During the development of the TPC Plan 2030, 
diverse stakeholder groups were formed and 
included members of priority communities and 
recipients of the cessation and youth prevention 
grants. These members provided invaluable input 
about the best community engagement interventions. 
The following priority communities remain integral to 
shaping and implementing the strategies to achieve 
tobacco-free living in Hawai‘i:
 »  Native Hawaiian
 »  People with Low Socioeconomic Status (SES)
 »  People with Behavioral Health Conditions, including 
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders
 »  The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender 
(LGBT) community
 »  Youth and Young AdultsHow the Plan Was Developed37IMPLEMENTATION
The rapidly increasing prevalence of chronic diseases and their associated risk factors in Hawai‘i demands 
effective coordination of chronic disease prevention and management efforts. State-wide collaboration between 
stakeholders and partners reduces duplication of efforts and leverages resources to effectively address common 
risk factors through evidence-based policies, programs, and services. The  TPC Plan 2030 works in coordination 
with other chronic disease prevention and management efforts in the state, specifically the Healthy Hawai‘i 
Strategic Plan 2030; the Hawai‘i Asthma Plan 2030; the Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030; the Hawai‘i Diabetes Plan 
2030; the Hawai‘i Heart Disease and Stroke Plan 2030; and the Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Plan 2030.
Program area stakeholders continue to meet regularly to implement the plan’s objectives and strategies, and 
to monitor and evaluate progress. The stakeholder groups will continue to expand membership to include new, 
community representatives and to assure an inclusive, community-based participatory approach to realizing the 
plan’s goals. The plan is meant for public dissemination and will be available online at www.HHSP.hawaii.gov .
LONG-TERM MEASURES
The long-term measures were identified to summarize and evaluate progress toward achieving the TPC 
Plan 2030 objectives. The long-term measures will be monitored throughout the decade to demonstrate 
improvements in tobacco prevention and control. Long-term measures will be reviewed and updated 
periodically as changes are made to the TPC Plan 2030.
LONG-TERM MEASURE BASELINE TARGET
Current cigarette use among adults in Hawai‘i 13.4% (BRFSS, 2018) 5%
Current cigarette use among Native Hawaiian adults  22.3% (BRFSS, 2018) 8.3%
Current cigarette use among adults with low income 22.1% (BRFSS, 2018) 8.2%
Current cigarette use among adults who are unemployed 32.3% (BRFSS, 2018) 12%
Current cigarette use among adults with low educational attainment 
(less than a HS diploma/GED)26.4% (BRFSS, 2018) 9.8%
Current cigarette use among adults with diagnosed depressive disorder  25.5% (BRFSS, 2018) 9.5%
Current cigarette use among adults who reported at least 14 poor mental 
health days in the last 30 days24.9% (BRFSS, 2018) 9.3%Implementation
Long-term Measures38LONG-TERM MEASURE BASELINE TARGET
Current cigarette use among adults who reported excessive drinking 24.0% (BRFSS, 2018) 9%
Current cigarette use among adults who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
or transgender 21.6% (BRFSS, 2018) 8.1%
Current cigarette use among young teens (middle school) 3.9% (National YRBS, 2019) 3.4%
Current cigarette use among teens (high school) 5.3% (National YRBS, 2019) 3.4%
Current e-cigarette use among young teens (middle school) 17.7% (National YRBS, 2019) 10.5%
Current e-cigarette use among teens (high school) 30.6% (National YRBS, 2019) 10.5%
Young teens (middle school) who never tried smoking cigarettes 89.5% (National YRBS, 2019) 99.3%
Teens (high school) who never tried smoking cigarettes 82.2% (National YRBS, 2019) 91.2%
Young teens (middle school) who never tried e-cigarettes  69.4% (National YRBS, 2019) 77%
Teens (high school) who never tried e-cigarettes 51.7% (National YRBS, 2019) 57.4%
Adult awareness of Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline Services 72.3% (BRFSS, 2018) 81%
Insurance plan coverage for smoking cessation 62.4% (BRFSS, 2015) 71.8%
Adults who tried to quit smoking 56.4% (BRFSS, 2018) 65.7%
Young teens (middle school) who tried to quit using tobacco in the 
last year57% (YTS, 2019) 63.3%
Teens (high school) who tried to quit using tobacco in the last year 60% (YTS, 2019) 66.6%
Young teens (middle school) who have been exposed to secondhand 
smoke (SHS) in the home27% (YTS, 2019) 24%
Teens (high school) who have been exposed to secondhand smoke in 
the home30% (YTS, 2019) 26.7%
Adult who are exposed to SHS inside their living space from somewhere else in 
or around their buildingNo baseline TBD40STATEWIDE  
PARTNER 
AGENCIES  
AND 
PROGRAMS
THE MASTER SETTLEMENT 
AGREEMENT
In 1999, legislation enacted as Act 304 
created the Hawai‘i Tobacco Settlement 
Special Fund (TSSF) to receive a portion of 
the state’s Master Settlement Agreement 
(MSA) with tobacco companies. The 
Department of Health administers the TSSF 
and distributes the monies to the Tobacco 
Prevention and Control Trust Fund.
THE HAWAI‘I COMMUNITY 
FOUNDATION
The Hawai‘i Community Foundation (HCF) 
is a statewide, non-profit, charitable 
service and grant making institution that 
administers the Tobacco Prevention and 
Control Trust Fund under a contract with 
the Department of Health. HCF administers 
the Trust Fund through investment of Trust 
Fund dollars to generate more revenue 
for tobacco prevention and control 
programs and manages community grants 
programs for tobacco cessation and youth 
prevention to reduce tobacco use. It also 
awards and manages the contracts for 
the statewide tobacco cessation quitline 
(HTQL). Additionally, HCF provides quitline 
marketing, communications, education, 
advocacy, and evaluation of the quitline 
and community grants. Since July 2016, HCF 
has funded a community cessation grants 
program that promotes the goals of the 
TPC Plan 2030 to reach and assist priority 
populations to quit smoking. In response 
to the recent increase in e-cigarette use by 
youth in Hawai‘i, HCF has funded counter-
marketing youth vaping campaigns and 
training for educators statewide on Youth 
ESD Prevention.The Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline (HTQL)  
provides tobacco users with assistance 
to quit by providing telephone-based 
counseling and a stand-alone web-based 
program. Participants in both programs can 
choose to receive additional support via a 
text-based program. Free nicotine patches, 
lozenges, or gum (or a combination of 
these) are available to participants through 
a tiered formula based on insurance 
coverage. Since its inception in 2005, the 
HTQL has received more than 100,000 calls 
from tobacco users, family, and friends of 
tobacco users, and health care providers.  
In 2019, a total of 1,451 tobacco users were 
served by the HTQL. 
THE TOBACCO  
PREVENTION AND CONTROL 
ADVISORY BOARD
The Tobacco Prevention and Control 
Advisory Board is composed of members 
appointed by the Governor, the President of 
the Senate, the Speaker of the House, the 
Director of Health, and the Superintendent 
of Education. The composition of the Board 
is set by law, and members serve without 
compensation for a term of three years. The 
Advisory Board makes recommendations to 
the Department of Health on the use of the 
Trust Fund monies and provides input on 
the development and evaluation of the TPC 
Plan 2030.
THE HAWAI‘I STATE 
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Tobacco Prevention and Control 
Section (TPCS) of the Department of 
Health is the official, state government 
program addressing tobacco control in 
Hawai‘i. It provides the infrastructure 
for the state’s strategic efforts fostering 
collaboration among the state and local 
tobacco control community. It develops 
population-based prevention strategies 
to provide and promote opportunities for 
tobacco prevention and control across 
the state. TPC is primarily funded by the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) through its comprehensive National 
Tobacco Control Program. TPC focuses on 
the four, major national program goals. 
(See page 6  for details).The Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division 
(ADAD) of the Department of Health 
provides oversight for monitoring and 
enforcing youth tobacco access laws.  
ADAD is responsible for compliance 
inspections required by the federal 
Synar Amendment. It contracts with the 
University of Hawai‘i to conduct random, 
unannounced inspections to determine 
retailer compliance with tobacco access 
laws prohibiting the sales or distribution  
of tobacco products to persons under 
twenty-one. ADAD has a separate 
cooperative agreement with police 
departments in each county to enforce 
the state law prohibiting tobacco sales to 
underage individuals. 
THE COALITION FOR A 
TOBACCO-FREE HAWAI‘I
The Coalition for a Tobacco-Free Hawai‘i 
(Coalition) is a program of the Hawai‘i 
Public Health Institute (HIPHI), a nonprofit 
organization. The Coalition focuses on 
reducing tobacco use and reducing 
exposure to secondhand smoke through 
policy, systems, and environmental change 
at state, local, and institutional levels. The 
Coalition is presently leading efforts to 
regulate electronic cigarettes and to end 
the sale of all flavored tobacco products 
in Hawai‘i.
With major funding provided by the 
Department of Health (DOH) and the 
Tobacco Trust Fund, the Coalition staffs 
local coalitions on all major islands. The 
main Coalition office is located on Oahu 
with local coalition staff in East Hawai‘i, 
West Hawai‘i, Kaua‘i, and Maui County 
(servicing Maui, Lāna‘i, and Moloka‘i).Statewide Partner Agencies and 
Programs41Adventist Health Castle  
Allie Hall*  
Gina Kaufman  
Sam Zuro
American Cancer Society  
Cory Chun*
American Heart Association  
Don Weisman*
American Lung  
Association  
Pedro Haro*
Big Island Substance  
Abuse Council  
Leila Mitsunaga  
Candee Rillon
Charter Schools Commission  
Christian Doyle  
Sylvia Silva
Hawai‘i Public 
Housing Authority  
Beatrice Kau‘i Martinez 
Department of Education  
Tim Lino  
Jennifer Ryan*
Department of Health  
Toby Beckelman  
Nicole Bell  
Danelle Cheng*  
Lance Ching*  
Stacy Haitsuka*  
Heidi Hansen Smith*  
Lindsey Ilagan  
Katherine Inoue*  
Lola Irvin*  
Lila Johnson*  
Kathy Koga*  
Cherry Anne Kukona  
Cheryl Labuguen  
Katie Matsushima  
Jake McPherson  Eddie Mercereau  
Kristin Mills  
Blythe Nett  
Thaddeus Pham  
Anwar Quadri*  
Nighat Quadri  
Florlyn Taflinger  
Joan Takamori  
Jill Tamashiro*  
Christina Teel  
Alyssa Yang
Flavors Hooks Kids  
Liza Gill
Hamakua-Kohala Health  
Kathryn Akioka  
Hawai‘i Association of 
Independent Schools  
Phil Bossert  
Hawai‘i Community   
 Foundation  
Larissa Kick*  
Tom Matsuda*
Hawai‘i Health and Harm 
Reduction Center  
Charles (Mono) Ah-Nee*  
Kunane Dreier*  
Donita Garcia  
Maddalynn Sesepasara* 
Hawai‘i Primary Care 
Association  
Robert Hirokawa*  
Cristina Vocalan 
Hawai‘i Public  
Health Institute  
Sally Ancheta*  
Forrest Batz*    
Katie Folio*       
Roella Foronda*   
Kirsty Gallaher    
Trish La Chica*  
Stephanie Moir  
Peggy Mierzwa*  Jaylen Murakami*  
Kevin Ramirez*  
Valerie Saiki*  
Mary Santa Maria  
Scott Stensrud*  
Jessica Yamauchi*
Hawai‘i Substance  
Abuse Coalition  
Alan Johnson
Healthy Mothers  
Healthy Babies  
Sunny Chen
Ho‘ola Lahui Hawai‘i  
Rebecca Lenarth
Kapi‘olani  
Smokefree Families  
Brittany Dayton  
Maile Ketelsen*  
Bryan Mih*
Kokua Kalihi Valley  
Philip Rasca
Mental Health Assn.  
of Hawai‘i  
Bryan Talisayan 
Papa Ola Lokahi  
Kim Ku‘ulei Birnie*
Queens Medical Center  
Jordan Lee
Salvation Army  
Treatment Center  
Jacqueline Tellei*University of Hawai‘i  
at Mānoa  
May Rose Dela Cruz*  
Chelsea Gonzales*  
Keawe Kaholokula*  
Lisa Kehl*  
Katey Peck  
Catherine Pirkle*  
Becky Rodericks*  
Kristen Scholly*    
Tetine Sentell  
Chien-Wen Tseng  
Thomas Wills*
Waianae Coast 
Comprehensive  
Health Center  
Alicia Higa  
Malia Lehua Lema
Waimanalo Health Center  
Sid Hermosura  
West Hawai‘i Community 
Health Center  
Diane Logan    
Tobacco Prevention  
and Control Trust Fund 
Advisory Board  
Danielle Bass  
Sharlene Chun-Lum  
Sheri Daniels  
Christian Gloria  
Robert Hirokawa  
Hye-Ryeon Lee  
Timothy Lino  
Elizabeth Tam  
Anthea Wang  
Danette Wong Tomiyasu
Facilitator  
Dave Nakashima
*Steering Committee MembersACKNOWLEDGEMENTSAcknowledgements42REFERENCES
1 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2018).  
http://hhdw.org . Accessed on December 9, 2020.
2 Tobacco Use—Healthy People 2030 | health.gov . (n.d.). Retrieved December 9, 2020, from https://health.gov/
healthypeople/objectives-and-data/browse-objectives/tobacco-use
3 CDCTobaccoFree. (2020, October 22). Tobacco Control Programs . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  
https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/tobacco_control_programs/index.htm
4 Whitehead, M., Dahlgren, G., & Europe, W. H. O. R. O. for. (2006). Levelling up (part 1): A discussion paper on concepts 
and principles for tackling social inequities in health  (EUR/06/5062293). Article EUR/06/5062293. https://apps.who.int/iris/
handle/10665/107790
5 The Toll of Tobacco in the United States . (2017, May 1). Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.  
https://www.tobaccofreekids.org/problem/toll-us
6 United States Surgeon General. (2014). The Health Consequences of Smoking -- 50 Years of progress: A Report of the 
Surgeon General: (510072014-001)  [Data set]. American Psychological Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/e510072014-
001
7 Toll of Tobacco in Hawaii . (2020, October 20). Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. https://www.tobaccofreekids.org/
problem/toll-us/hawaii
8 Toll of Tobacco in Hawaii . (2017, May 10). Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. https://www.tobaccofreekids.org/problem/
toll-us/hawaii
9 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (1997 & 
2018). http://hhdw.org . Accessed on December 9, 2020.
10 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Youth Risk Behavior Survey. (2019). http://hhdw.org .
Accessed on May 21, 2021.
11 Surgeon General’s Advisory on E-cigarette Use Among Youth | Smoking & Tobacco Use | CDC . (2019, April 9). https://www.
cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-cigarettes/surgeon-general-advisory/index.html
12 Goriounova, N. A., & Mansvelder, H. D. (2012). Short- and Long-Term Consequences of Nicotine Exposure during 
Adolescence for Prefrontal Cortex Neuronal Network Function. Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Medicine , 2(12).  
https://doi.org/10.1101/cshperspect.a012120
13 Abuse, N. I. on D. (n.d.). Drugabuse.gov | National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) . National Institute on Drug Abuse. 
Retrieved December 7, 2020, from https://www.drugabuse.gov/
14 Cullen KA, Gentzke AS, Sawdey MD, et al. e-Cigarette Use Among Youth in the United States, 
2019.  JAMA.  2019;322(21):2095–2103. doi:10.1001/jama.2019.18387
15 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Office on Smoking and Health. Outbreak of Lung Injury Associated with the 
Use of E-cigarette, or Vaping, Products, retrieved January 28, 2020 from https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-
cigarettes/severe-lung-disease.html#latest-outbreak-information
16 Bach, L. (2020). Tobacco Company Marketing to Kids . Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. https://www.tobaccofreekids.org/
assets/factsheets/0008.pdf
17 CDCTobaccoFree. (2020, March 19). Best Practices User Guide: Health Equity . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  
https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best-practices-health-equity/index.htm
18 Achieving Health Equity in Tobacco Control  (Version 1). (2015). The Truth Initiative. https://www.lgbthealthlink.org/
Assets/U/Documents/achievinghealthequityintobaccocontrol.pdf
19 CDCTobaccoFree. (2020, February 27). Health Effects of Secondhand Smoke . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  
https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/fact_sheets/secondhand_smoke/health_effects/index.htmReferences4320 Fagan, P ., King, G., Lawrence, D., Petrucci, S. A., Robinson, R. G., Banks, D., Marable, S., & Grana, R. (2004). Eliminating  
tobacco-related health disparities: Directions for future research. American Journal of Public Health , 94(2), 211–217.  
https://doi.org/10.2105/ajph.94.2.211
21 Raphael, D. (2006). Social determinants of health: Present status, unanswered questions, and future directions. International 
Journal of Health Services: Planning, Administration, Evaluation , 36(4), 651–677. https://doi.org/10.2190/3MW4-1EK3-DGRQ-
2CRF
22 Social Determinants of Health—Healthy People 2030 | health.gov . (n.d.). Retrieved December 9, 2020, from  
https://health.gov/healthypeople/objectives-and-data/social-determinants-health
23 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Youth Risk Behavior Survey. (2013-2019).  
http://hhdw.org . Accessed on May 21, 2021.
24 Odani, S. (2018). Racial/Ethnic Disparities in Tobacco Product Use Among Middle and High School Students—United 
States, 2014–2017. MMWR. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report , 67. https://doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6734a3
25 Subialka Nowariak, E., Eaton, A., Friedrichsen, S., & Ficek, A. (2019). Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline FY 2019 Annual Report . 
Professional Data Analysts.
26 Subialka Nowariak, E., et al. (2017). Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline FY 2017 Annual Report . Professional Data Analysts.
27 Schmitt, R. C. (1970). The okuu—Hawaii’s greatest epidemic. Hawaii Medical Journal , 29(5), 359–364.
28 Look, M., Soong, S., & Kaholokula, J. (2020). Assessment and Priorities for Health and Well-Being in Native Hawaiians and 
Pacific Islanders . https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22162.89286  
29 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2016–
2018). http://hhdw.org . Accessed on December 9, 2020.
30 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Youth Risk Behavior Survey. (2015–2019).  
http://hhdw.org . Accessed on May 21, 2021.
31 Cigarette Smoking Among U.S. Adults Hits All-Time Low | CDC Online Newsroom | CDC . (2019, November 14).  
https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2019/p1114-smoking-low.html
32 CDCTobaccoFree. (2019, March 26). Cigarette and Tobacco Use Among People of Low Socioeconomic Status . Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/low-ses/index.htm
33 Cigarette Smoking Among U.S. Adults Hits All-Time Low | CDC Online Newsroom | CDC . (2019, November 14).  
https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2019/p1114-smoking-low.html
34 Blackwell, D. L., Lucas, J. W., & Clarke, T. C. (2014). Summary health statistics for U.S. adults: National health interview 
survey, 2012. Vital and Health Statistics. Series 10, Data from the National Health Survey , 260, 1–161.
35 Fagerström, K., & Aubin, H.-J. (2009). Management of smoking cessation in patients with psychiatric disorders. Current 
Medical Research and Opinion , 25(2), 511–518. https://doi.org/10.1185/03007990802707568
36 STATE System Medicaid Coverage of Tobacco Cessation Treatments Fact Sheet . (2020, March 19). https://www.cdc.gov/
statesystem/factsheets/medicaid/Cessation.html
37 Levinson, A. H. (2017). Where the U.S. tobacco epidemic still rages: Most remaining smokers have lower socioeconomic 
status. Journal of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved , 28(1), 100–107. https://doi.org/10.1353/hpu.2017.0012
38 Cohn, S. (2019, July 10). America’s 10 most expensive states to live in 2019 . CNBC.  
https://www.cnbc.com/2019/07/10/americas-10-most-expensive-states-to-live-in-2019.html
39 New Maps Chart Homeless Across the Nation, Hawaii Ranks #1 . (2015, January 21). Honolulu Civil Beat.  
https://www.civilbeat.org/2015/01/new-maps-chart-homeless-across-the-nation-hawaii-ranks-1/
40 The 2019 Annual Homeless Assessment Report (AHAR) to Congress, Part 1: Point-in-Time Estimates of Homelessness . 
(n.d.). 104.
41 Gilmour, H. (2008). Depression and risk of heart disease. Health Reports , 19(3), 7–17.4442 Levinson, A. H. (2017). Where the U.S. tobacco epidemic still rages: Most remaining smokers have lower socioeconomic 
status. Journal of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved , 28(1), 100–107. https://doi.org/10.1353/hpu.2017.0012
43 Subialka Nowariak, E., Eaton, A., Friedrichsen, S., & Ficek, A. (2019). Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline FY 2019 Annual Report . 
Professional Data Analysts.
44 Ku, L., Bruen, B. K., Steinmetz, E., & Bysshe, T. (2016). Medicaid Tobacco Cessation: Big Gaps Remain In Efforts To Get 
Smokers To Quit. Health Affairs , 35(1), 62–70. https://doi.org/10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0756
45 Estimation of 1-Year Changes in Medicaid Expenditures Associated With Reducing Cigarette Smoking Prevalence by 1% | 
Lifestyle Behaviors | JAMA Network Open | JAMA Network . (n.d.). Retrieved December 7, 2020, from https://jamanetwork.
com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2730483
46 Pleasants, R. A., Riley, I. L., & Mannino, D. M. (2016). Defining and targeting health disparities in chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease. International Journal of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease , 11, 2475–2496. https://doi.org/10.2147/
COPD.S79077
47 Lung cancer and socioeconomic status in a pooled analysis of case-control studies . (n.d.). Retrieved December 7, 2020, from  
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0192999
48 Fagan, P ., Moolchan, E. T., Lawrence, D., Fernander, A., & Ponder, P . K. (2007). Identifying health disparities across the 
tobacco continuum. Addiction (Abingdon, England) , 102 Suppl 2 , 5–29. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1360-0443.2007.01952.x
49 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health Resources and Services Administration. The Health and Well-Being 
of Children: A Portrait of States and the Nation 2011–2012 .
50 CDCTobaccoFree. (2020, February 4). Tobacco Use and Quitting Among Individuals With Behavioral Health Cond . Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/mental-illness-substance-use/index.htm
51 Bianco, C. L. (2019). Rates of electronic cigarette use among adults with a chronic mental illness. Addictive Behaviors , 89, 
1–4. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addbeh.2018.08.033
52 Hawaii Department of Health Adult Mental Health Division. Quality of Life Interview Survey, 2013–2014. 
53 Hawaii Department of Health Alcohol & Drug Abuse Division. 2013–2014.
54 American Legacy Foundation. A Hidden Epidemic: Tobacco Use and Mental Illness. 2011.
55 Fagerström, K., & Aubin, H.-J. (2009). Management of smoking cessation in patients with psychiatric disorders. Current 
Medical Research and Opinion , 25(2), 511–518. https://doi.org/10.1185/03007990802707568
56 Schroeder, S. A., & Morris, C. D. (2010). Confronting a neglected epidemic: Tobacco cessation for persons with mental 
illnesses and substance abuse problems. Annual Review of Public Health , 31, 297–314 1p following 314. https://doi.
org/10.1146/annurev.publhealth.012809.103701  
57 American Legacy Foundation. A Hidden Epidemic: Tobacco Use and Mental Illness. 2011.
58 Fagerström, K., & Aubin, H.-J. (2009). Management of smoking cessation in patients with psychiatric disorders. Current 
Medical Research and Opinion , 25(2), 511–518. https://doi.org/10.1185/03007990802707568
59 Schroeder, S. A., & Morris, C. D. (2010). Confronting a neglected epidemic: Tobacco cessation for persons with mental 
illnesses and substance abuse problems. Annual Review of Public Health , 31, 297–314 1p following 314.  
https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.publhealth.012809.103701
60 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). (2013). Vital signs: Current cigarette smoking among adults aged ≥18 
years with mental illness - United States, 2009–2011. MMWR. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report , 62(5), 81–87.
61 Hawaii Department of Health Adult Mental Health Division. Quality of Life Interview Survey, 2013–2014. 2015.
62 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2014).  
http://hhdw.org . Accessed December 9, 2020. 
63 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. National Survey on Drug Use and Health - 2009–2011. 2012.4564 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality. The 
N-SSATS Report: Tobacco Cessation Services Rockville, MD. 2013.
65 Prochaska, J. J., Das, S., & Young-Wolff, K. C. (2017). Smoking, Mental Illness, and Public Health. Annual Review of Public 
Health , 38, 165–185. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031816-044618
66 Weinberger, A. H., Platt, J., Esan, H., Galea, S., Erlich, D., & Goodwin, R. D. (2017). Cigarette smoking is associated with 
increased risk of substance use disorder relapse: A nationally representative, prospective longitudinal investigation. The 
Journal of Clinical Psychiatry , 78(2), e152–e160. https://doi.org/10.4088/JCP .15m10062
67 McKelvey, K., Thrul, J., & Ramo, D. (2017). Impact of quitting smoking and smoking cessation treatment on substance 
use outcomes: An updated and narrative review. Addictive Behaviors , 65, 161–170. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
addbeh.2016.10.012
68 Healey, A., Roberts, S., Sevdalis, N., Goulding, L., Wilson, S., Shaw, K., Jolley, C., & Robson, D. (2019). A Cost-Effectiveness 
Analysis of Stop Smoking Interventions in Substance-Use Disorder Populations. Nicotine & Tobacco Research , 21(5), 623–
630. https://doi.org/10.1093/ntr/nty087
69 Prochaska, J. J., Das, S., & Young-Wolff, K. C. (2017). Smoking, Mental Illness, and Public Health. Annual Review of Public 
Health , 38, 165–185. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031816-044618
70 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vital Signs: Adult Smoking – Focusing on People with Mental Illness. 2013.
71 Maurer, J., Rebbapragada, V., Borson, S., Goldstein, R., Kunik, M. E., Yohannes, A. M., Hanania, N. A., & ACCP Workshop 
Panel on Anxiety and Depression in COPD. (2008). Anxiety and depression in COPD: Current understanding, unanswered 
questions, and research needs. Chest , 134(4 Suppl), 43S–56S. https://doi.org/10.1378/chest.08-0342
72 Prochaska, J. J. (2011). Smoking and mental illness—Breaking the link. The New England Journal of Medicine , 365(3), 
196–198.  https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMp1105248
73 University of Colorado Denver. Smoking Cessation for Persons with Mental Illness: A Toolkit for Mental Health Providers 
Denver, Colorado: Department of Psychiatry, Behavioral Health and Wellness Program; 1999.
74 Dixon, L., Weiden, P ., Delahanty, J., Goldberg, R., Postrado, L., Lucksted, A., & Lehman, A. (2000). Prevalence and 
correlates of diabetes in national schizophrenia samples. Schizophrenia Bulletin , 26(4), 903–912.  https://doi.org/10.1093/
oxfordjournals.schbul.a033504
75 Gilmour, H. (2008). Depression and risk of heart disease. Health Reports , 19(3), 7–17.
76 Colton, C. W., & Manderscheid, R. W. (2006). Congruencies in Increased Mortality Rates, Years of Potential Life Lost, and 
Causes of Death Among Public Mental Health Clients in Eight States. Preventing Chronic Disease , 3(2).  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1563985/
77 Hurt, R. D., Offord, K. P ., Croghan, I. T., Gomez-Dahl, L., Kottke, T. E., Morse, R. M., & Melton, L. J. (1996). Mortality 
following inpatient addictions treatment. Role of tobacco use in a community-based cohort. JAMA , 275(14), 1097–1103.  
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8601929/
78 Maurer, J., Rebbapragada, V., Borson, S., Goldstein, R., Kunik, M. E., Yohannes, A. M., Hanania, N. A., & ACCP Workshop 
Panel on Anxiety and Depression in COPD. (2008). Anxiety and depression in COPD: Current understanding, unanswered 
questions, and research needs. Chest , 134(4 Suppl), 43S–56S. https://doi.org/10.1378/chest.08-0342
79 University of Colorado Denver. Smoking Cessation for Persons with Mental Illness: A Toolkit for Mental Health Providers 
Denver, Colorado: Department of Psychiatry, Behavioral Health and Wellness Program; 1999.
80 Achilles N. The Development of the Homosexual Bar as an Institution. In: Gagnon JH, Simon W, Carns DE, eds. Sexual 
Deviance New York, NY . New York, NY: Harper & Row; 1967.
81 Gay and Lesbian Medical Association. Healthy People 2010: A Companion Document for LGBT Health. San Francisco, CA: 
Gay and Lesbian Medical Association. 2001.
82 Greenwood, G. L., White, E. W., Page-Shafer, K., Bein, E., Osmond, D. H., Paul, J., & Stall, R. D. (2001). Correlates of 
heavy substance use among young gay and bisexual men: The San Francisco Young Men’s Health Study. Drug and Alcohol 
Dependence , 61(2), 105–112. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0376-8716(00)00129-04683 Sheahan, S. L., & Garrity, T. F. (1992). Stress and Tobacco Addiction. Journal of the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners . 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1745-7599.1992.tb00821.x
84 Lee, J. G. L., Griffin, G. K., & Melvin, C. L. (2009). Tobacco use among sexual minorities in the USA, 1987 to May 2007:  
A systematic review. Tobacco Control , 18(4), 275–282. https://doi.org/10.1136/tc.2008.028241
85 King, B. A., Dube, S. R., & Tynan, M. A. (2012). Current Tobacco Use Among Adults in the United States: Findings From  
the National Adult Tobacco Survey. American Journal of Public Health , 102(11), e93–e100. https://doi.org/10.2105/
AJPH.2012.301002
86 Ryan, H., Wortley, P . M., Easton, A., Pederson, L., & Greenwood, G. (2001). Smoking among lesbians, gays, and bisexuals: A review 
of the literature. American Journal of Preventive Medicine , 21(2), 142–149. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00331-2
87 Cochran, S. D., Mays, V. M., Bowen, D., Gage, S., Bybee, D., Roberts, S. J., Goldstein, R. S., Robison, A., Rankow, E. J., & White, J. 
(2001). Cancer-related risk indicators and preventive screening behaviors among lesbians and bisexual women. American Journal of 
Public Health , 91(4), 591–597. https://doi.org/10.2105/ajph.91.4.591
88 Moore, E., Wisniewski, A., & Dobs, A. (2003). Endocrine treatment of transsexual people: A review of treatment regimens, 
outcomes, and adverse effects. The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism , 88(8), 3467–3473. https://doi.org/10.1210/
jc.2002-021967
89 Tirelli, U., Spina, M., Sandri, S., Serraino, D., Gobitti, C., Fasan, M., Sinicco, A., Garavelli, P ., Ridolfo, A. L., & Vaccher, E. (2000). Lung 
carcinoma in 36 patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. The Italian Cooperative Group on AIDS and Tumors. Cancer , 
88(3), 563–569. https://doi.org/10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(20000201)88:3<563::aid-cncr11>3.0.co;2-d
90 Moore, E., Wisniewski, A., & Dobs, A. (2003). Endocrine treatment of transsexual people: A review of treatment regimens, 
outcomes, and adverse effects. The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism , 88(8), 3467–3473. https://doi.org/10.1210/
jc.2002-021967
91 Hadigan, C., Meigs, J. B., Corcoran, C., Rietschel, P ., Piecuch, S., Basgoz, N., Davis, B., Sax, P ., Stanley, T., Wilson, P . W., 
D’Agostino, R. B., & Grinspoon, S. (2001). Metabolic abnormalities and cardiovascular disease risk factors in adults with human 
immunodeficiency virus infection and lipodystrophy. Clinical Infectious Diseases: An Official Publication of the Infectious Diseases 
Society of America , 32(1), 130–139.  https://doi.org/10.1086/317541
92 Buchmueller, T., & Carpenter, C. S. (2010). Disparities in health insurance coverage, access, and outcomes for individuals in same-
sex versus different-sex relationships, 2000–2007. American Journal of Public Health, 100 (3), 489–495. https://doi.org/10.2105/
AJPH.2009.160804
93 Krehely J. How to Close the LGBT Health Disparities Gap . Center for American Progress. 2009.
94 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National Youth Tobacco Survey (2018). 
95 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Youth Tobacco Survey. (2019). http://hhdw.org .  
Accessed on May 21, 2021.
96 Wills, T. A., Knight, R., Sargent, J. D., Gibbons, F. X., Pagano, I., & Williams, R. J. (2017). Longitudinal study of e-cigarette use 
and onset of cigarette smoking among high school students in Hawaii. Tobacco Control , 26(1), 34–39. https://doi.org/10.1136/
tobaccocontrol-2015-052705
97 Wills, T. A., Sargent, J. D., Knight, R., Pagano, I., & Gibbons, F. X. (2016). E-cigarette use and willingness to smoke: A sample of 
adolescent non-smokers. Tobacco Control, 25 (e1), e52–59. https://doi.org/10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2015-052349
98 Yuan, M., Cross, S. J., Loughlin, S. E., & Leslie, F. M. (2015). Nicotine and the adolescent brain. The Journal of Physiology, 593 (16), 
3397–3412. https://doi.org/10.1113/JP270492Date of Publication: June 2021  •  Date of Printing: June 2021David Ige, Governor of Hawai‘i
Elizabeth A. Char, M.D., Director of Health
For more information contact:
Hawai‘i State Department of Health
Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Division
1250 Punchbowl St. Room 422
Honolulu, Hawai‘i 96813
PHONE: (808) 586-4488
The TPC Plan 2030 can be accessed, downloaded, and interacted with  
at the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.gov
Non Discrimination in Services
We provide access to our programs and activities without  
regard to race, color, national origin, language, age, sex, religion, or disability.  
Write or call the Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Division  
or our Affirmative Action Officer at P .O. Box 3378, Honolulu Hawai‘i 96801-3378  
or (808) 586-4110 (voice/TTY) within 180 days of a discrimination incident.

--- Text from PDF (https://health.hawaii.gov/tobacco/files/2024/08/2024-Clean-Break-Brochure-Color.pdf) ---
U.S Department of
Health & Human Services 
National Institute of Health 
National Cancer Institute
(NCI)
https://www.nccih.nih.gov/heal
th/quitting-smoking
(800) 4-CANCER
Office of the Surgeon
General 
Smoking Cessation: A Report
of the Surgeon General (2020)
hhs.gov/sites/default/files/202
0-cessation-sgr-full-report.pdf
Office on Smoking and
Health (OSH)
National Center for Chronic
Disease, Prevention & Health
Promotion
Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC)
(800) 232-1311
(770) 488-5705
cdc.gov/tobacco/
American Cancer Society
(800) 227-2345
cancer.org
American Heart
Association
(800) 242-8721
heart.org/en/healthy-
living/healthy-lifestyle/quit-
smoking-tobacco
Text: HEART to 88709
American Lung
Association
O ʻahu: 808-537-5966 x305
Neighbor Islands: 
(800) 537-5966
freedomfromsmoking.org
ala-hawaii.org
Self-help booklet for teensClean 
H A W A I IBreak
WHERE TO 
FIND HELPWHEN  
YOU WANT  
TO QUITHawai ʻ i State Department of Health
Chronic Disease Prevention & Health Promotion Division
Primary Prevention Branch
Tobacco Prevention and Control Section
1250 Punchbowl Street, #217
Honolulu, HI 96813-2416
 Call (808) 586 4613
NONDISCRIMINATION IN SERVICES
The Hawai‘i Department of Health is committed to
maintaining an environment free from
discrimination, retaliation, or harassment on the basis of
race, color, sex, national origin, age,
or disability, or any other class as protected under federal
or state law, with respect to any
program or activity. For more information, including
language accessibility and filing a complaint, please
contact Acting Non-Discimination Coordinator Valerie Kato
at (808) 586-4400,doh.nondiscrimination@doh.hawaii.gov,
or visit HDOH’s website at http://health.hawaii.gov.
This publication is supported by Cooperative Agreement
Number 6 U58DP006789-01-01 from the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Its contents are
solely the responsibility of the authors and do not
necessarily represent the official views of CDC.
The Tobacco Prevention & Control Section of the Hawai ʻ i
State Department of Health is funded in part by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Office
on Smoking and Health (OSH) National and State Tobacco
Control Program.
April 2024|XX CopiesTobacco Cessation Resources
2024 
Tobacco Cessation Resources
in Hawai ʻ iAmerican College of
Obstetricians &
Gynecologists
Resources for 
Pregnant Women
(202) 638-5577
(202) 863-2518
acog.org/topics/smoking-
cessation
Aloha Care
(887) 973-0712
alohacare.org
Hawai ˊ i Medical Service
Association (HMSA)
(800) 440-0640
hmsa.com/QUEST
Kaiser Permanente
(800) 651-2237
kpquest.org
ˊOhana Health Plan
(888) 846-4262
ohanahealthplan.com
United Healthcare
Community Plan
(888) 980-8728
uhccommunityplan.comMedicaid Tobacco
Cessation ResourcesStatewide
MilitaryLāna ʻ i
Oʻahu
American Lung Association
Freedom From Smoking
1050 Queen St., Ste 100 
Honolulu, HI 96814 
(808) 537-5966
lung.org/about-us/contact-
us/hawaii
Hawai ʻ i Health & Harm
Reduction Center (LGBT+)
Hawaii’s Last Drag: 
Quit Tobacco Program 
677 Ala Moana Blvd
Honolulu, HI 96813
(808) 521-2437
Ko ʻolauloa Community
Health Center
56-119 Pualalea St
Kahuku, HI 96731
(808) 293-9231
koolauloachc.orgWai ʻ anae Coast
Comprehensive Health
Center
E Mālama I Kou Hā
Tobacco Cessation Program
86-260 Farrington Highway
Waianae, HI 96792
(808) 697-3599
wcchc.com 
Waimanalo Health Center
Hanu A Ola Tobacco &
Smoking Cessation Program
41-1295 Kalaniana ʻ ole Hwy
Waimanalo, HI 96795
(808) 259-7948
waimanalohealth.org
Wahiawā Health
302 California Ave
Wahiawa, HI 96786
(808) 622-1618
wahiawahealth.org/services/quit-
tobacco-program
I Ola Lāhui Honolulu Branch
Tobacco Dependence Treatment
Program
1441 Kapiolani Blvd, Ste 1802
Honolulu, HI 96814
(808) 525-6255Waikiki Health
Tobacco Cessation Program
Waikiki Health Ohua Ave Clinic
277 Ohua Ave
Honolulu, HI 96815
(808) 922-4787
Waikiki Health Makahiki 
Medical & Dental Clinic
935 Makahiki Way
Honolulu, HI 96822
(808) 537-8384
Waikiki Health PATH Clinic
Perinatal Addiction
Treatment of Hawai ʻ i
Baby & Me Tobacco-Free
Program
845 22nd Ave
Honolulu, HI 96816
(808) 791-9390Kaua ʻ i
Ho ʻola Lahui Hawai ʻ i, Native
Hawaiian Healthcare
Systems
Kaua ʻ i Community Health Center
4491 Rice St, Unit 106
Lihue, HI 96766
(808) 652-4428
Mālama Pono Health
Services
4370 Kukui Grove St, Ste 3-115
Lihue, HI 96766
(808) 246-9577
mphskauai.org/tobacco-
cessationKapi ʻ olani Medical Center
for Women & Children
Kapi ʻ olani Smokefree Families
1319 Punahou St
Honolulu, HI 96826
smokefreefamilies@kapiolani.org
(808) 983-6013
Kōkua Kalihi Valley
Comprehensive Family
Services
Breathe Kalihi
2239 N School St
Honolulu, HI 96819
(808) 791-9425
kkv.netKaiser Permanente
Tobacco Free Program
For Kaiser members only.
1010 Pensacola St 
Honolulu, HI 96814
(808) 643-4622
Kalihi-Palama Health
Center
Living Well Hawaii Project
915 North King St
Honolulu, HI 96817
(808) 848-1438
NationwideMy Life, My Quit Hawai ʻ i
hawaii.mylifemyquit.org
FREE & confidential vaping 
quit support for youth.
Sign up today!
Call (855) 891-9989
Text “Start My Quit” to 36072
American Lung Association
https://www.lung.org/about-
us/contact-us/hawaii
Campaign for Tobacco-
Free Kids
tobaccofreekids.org/
National Cancer 
Institute (NCI)
Smoke Free Teen
teen.smokefree.gov
Text “QUIT“ to 47848
Truth Initiative
truthinitiative.org
CanQuit2
ycq2.org
Cessation services for U.S.
military members. Online
program with 24/7 live chat, 
& trained coaches.
Tobacco Cessation TRICARE
tricare.mil/tobaccocessation
Offers counseling, tobacco
cessation medications, and
support for active duty
military & dependents.
Marine Corps Community
Services Hawai ʻ i Health
Promotion Program
Tobacco Cessation Classes
For active duty, retired
military & dependents.
(808) 254-7636NMRTC Pearl Harbor
Naval Health Clinic
Hawai ˊ i Health
Promotion Tobacco Use
Cessation Program
For active duty, retired
military & dependents.
480 Central Ave
Pearl Harbor, HI 96860
(808) 471-2280
U.S. Coast Guard 
For Coast Guard members 
& dependents.
400 Sand Island Pkwy
Honolulu, HI 96819
(808) 842-2088
Department of Veterans
Affairs, Pacific Islands 
Health Care System
va.gov/pacific-islands-health-
care/
4485 Pahee Street, STE 150
Lihue, HI 96766
(808) 246-0497 and 
(808) 245-4154Lāna ʻ i Community Health
Center E Hanu Lāna ʻ i 
Tobacco Cessation Program
333 Sixth St
Lanai City, HI 96763
(808) 565-6919 ext. 121
Coalition for a Drug Free
Lāna ʻ i
730 Lanai Ave Ste #108
Lanai City, HI 96763
(909) 565-6043
Moloka ʻ iTobacco Cessation Resources
Hawai ʻ i IslandMauiYouth Resources
Hamakua-Kohala Health
Center
Tobacco Cessation Program
45-549 Plumeria St
Honokaa, HI 96727
(808) 937-9979
Big Island Substance Abuse
Council (BISAC)
Smoking Cessation Program
16-179 Melekahiwa St 
Keaau, HI 96749
(808) 969-9994
Hawai ʻ i Island Community
Health Center
E Hanu Tobacco Cessation
Program
75-5751 Kuakini Hwy
Kailua-Kona, HI 96740
hicommunityhealthcenter.orgMālama I Ke Ola Health 
Center
1881 Nani St
Wailuku, HI 96793
(808) 872-4068
ccmaui.org
Nā Pu ʻ uwai, Native
Hawaiian Health Care
Systems
604 Maunaloa Hwy Bldg C
Kaunakakai, HI 96748
(808) 560-3653
I Ola Lāhui - Hanu Moloka ʻ i
1441 Kapiolani Blvd #1802
Honolulu, HI 96814
(808) 213-4404Hawai ˊ i Tobacco Quitline
hawaiiquitline.org
FREE confidential quit support
for tobacco & vapes by phone,
online & text.
FREE nicotine patches, gum &
lozenges. 
Call today: 1-800-QUIT-NOW
or 1-800-784-8669
Special programs for pregnant
& new moms, those with
depression, anxiety, bi-polar,
schizophrenia & more.
Hawai ˊ i State 
Department of Health 
Tobacco Prevention and
Control Section
hawaii.gov/health/tobacco/
(808) 586-4613
Email: doh.tobaccoprevention@
doh.hawaii.gov
Asian Smokers’ Quitline
asiansmokersquitline.org
FREE tobacco quit services 
Phone & online counseling 
Support materials
Nicotine patches
Call Monday-Friday
7am-9pm Pacific Time 
Services in:
Cantonese & Mandarin
廣東話  &  官話
1-800-838-8917
Korean 한국어
1-800-556-5564
Vietnamese ti ế ng Vi ệ t
 1-800-778-8440
