Source URL: https://www.anti-fraud.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission | REPORT FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawai‘i Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission Search this site Search X icon Home About Commissioners What We Do Annual Reports 2023 Annual Report 2022 Annual Report 2021 Annual Report 2020 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report Commission Meetings Meeting Materials Minutes Videos Resources Constitution Article XIV, Hawaii State Constitution Hawaii Revised Statutes Chapter 84, State Ethics Code Chapter 97, Lobbyists Law Hawaii Administrative Rules Quick Guides Ethics Guides Guide to the State Ethics Code Guide for State Board and Commission Members Related Resources Advice Get quick, confidential ethics advice Travel Questionnaire Form Nepotism Exception Form Quick Guides High Road Newsletter 2020-2022 2010-2019 2000-2009 1993-1999 Guidelines Guide to the State Ethics Code Gifts Campaigning Fundraising Legislators Lobbying Charter School Other Public Data Public Records HRS §84-15 Contracts 2024 2020 2017 2015 2013 2012 2011 2010 Requesting for Ethics Commission Records File Your Forms Ethics Disclosures Lobbying Disclosures Report Violation Make a Confidential/Anonymous Complaint What Happens When You File a Complaint Training Mandatory State Ethics Training FAQs Register for a Live Videoconference Training Self-Directed Training Programs Specialized Training Requests Rulings Advisory Opinions and Informal Advisory Opinions Decisions Nepotism Exceptions Resolution of Charges/Investigations Home » REPORT FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE REPORT FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE REPORT FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE The Department of the Attorney General and the Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission are working together to try to identify fraud , waste , abuse , or other violations involving government funds and/or government workers. If you suspect that a government official in Hawai‘i is engaged in any kind of fraud, waste, or abuse of position, please fill out our complaint form or contact us, confidentially, at 587-0000 or [email protected] . If you have a complaint about fraud that does not involve the government or government funds – for example, if you believe you have been the victim of a scam – please see the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs “Fraud Prevention and Resource Guide,” available at https://cca.hawaii.gov/sec/files/2015/10/Fraud-Guide-2.pdf . FRAUD is deception intended to result in financial or personal gain, including misrepresentation of facts, making false statements, or concealment of information. Some examples of fraud may include: Submitting false pricing information, or knowing approval of expenditures based on false information Falsifying procurement records, disposal records, overtime records, or leave records Knowingly charging or paying for goods and services that were not provided Knowingly applying for multiple grants for the same set of expenses (“double-dipping”) Falsifying or eligibility in order to quality for government grants or contracts WASTE is the thoughtless or careless expenditure, mismanagement, or abuse of resources to the detriment (or potential detriment) of the government, including incurring unnecessary costs resulting from inefficient or ineffective practices, systems, or controls. Some examples of waste may include: Ignoring competitive bidding requirements when required Buying overpriced equipment from a favored vendor Buying unnecessary goods or services ABUSE is defined as excessive or improper use of a thing, or to use something in a manner contrary to the natural or legal rules for its use. Some examples of abuse may include: Steering government contracts towards friends or family Asking for, or receiving, gifts from vendors/contractors Issuing a request for bids with specifications written by a vendor, so only that vendor can meet the specifications Report Fraud, Waste, and Abuse: https://ethics.hawaii.gov/fraud_complaint/ About Us Site Map Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy (808) 587-0460 Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023HSECAnnualReport.pdf) ---
Hawai’i State Ethics Commission 1001 Bishop St. #970 Honolulu, HI 96813 (808) 587-0460  ethics.hawaii.gov  info.ethics@hawaii.gov2023 ANNUAL REPORT
HAWAI’I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 2023 ANNUAL REPORT MISSION & DUTIES: 
Established in 1968, the Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission – the first state ethics commission in the United States – represents a commitment by the people of Hawai‘i to the principles that “public officers and employees must exhibit the highest standards of ethical conduct[,] and that these standards come from the personal integrity of each individual in government.” Hawai‘i Constitution, article XIV. The constitution further requires that the State, and each of its subdivisions, establish a code of ethics for public officers and employees. Pursuant to this constitutional mandate, the Commission is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the State Ethics Code and the State Lobbyists Law, chapters 84 and 97, Hawai‘i Revised Statutes (“HRS”), respectively. The Ethics Code includes laws relating to the acceptance and reporting of gifts, confidential information, fair treatment (the prohibited misuse of official position), conflicts of interests, state contracts, and post-employment restrictions, along with a requirement that state legislators, candidates for state elective office, and certain state employees file financial disclosure statements.   For purposes of the State Ethics Code, the Commission has jurisdiction over approximately 60,000 state officials and employees. This includes state legislators and other elected state officials, employees of the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government (except for judges and justices), and members of all state boards and commissions. The State Ethics Code’s financial disclosure law also applies to all candidates for state elective office.   The Commission also administers the State Lobbyists Law, which applies to lobbying activities at the state level. The Lobbyists Law requires lobbyists to register with the Commission and requires lobbyists and organizations that lobby 
Cover photo used with permission from Christopher Barense Photography.PAGE   2to report lobbying expenditures and contributions on forms filed with the Commission. The Commission has jurisdiction over nearly 500 lobbyists representing more than 400 organizations that lobby the state legislature or executive branch. ETHICS ADVICE: The Commission issues advisory opinions and other types of guidance (including opinion letters written by the Commission’s attorneys) about the application of the State Ethics Code and the State Lobbyists Law. In 2023, the Commission’s attorneys received and responded to an impressive 1,179 requests for advice from state legislators, state employees, lobbyists, members of the public, and candidates for state elective office. Many of these requests included written advice and active follow-up. The Commission considers its ability to provide timely and meaningful guidance and advice to be one of its most essential functions.   In 2023, no advisory opinions were issued.  ETHICS EDUCATION: Ethics education was a significant priority for the Commission in 2023. The Commission is charged with educating state officials and employees about ethics in government, HRS § 84-31(a)(7). Starting on January 1, 2023, a new law required all state employees to take either a live or online ethics training course within ninety days of becoming an employee and at least once every four years thereafter.  Fulfilling this new mandate was a key focus of the Commission. Implementation steps included conducting in-person and videoconference trainings. In addition to INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOV
NATIONAL LEADERSHIP AWARD The Commission’s education efforts received recognition from the Campaign Legal Center’s 2023 “Top 10 Training Upgrades for Ethics Commissions” report. Available at https://campaignlegal.org/PAGE   3
oﬀering general ethics trainings, the Commission scheduled specialized trainings for lobbyists, board & commission members, and legislators. The Commission also oﬀered sessions with Continuing Legal Education credits for government attorneys. The Commission’s videoconference training calendar can be found at https://ethics.hawaii.gov/training/#signup. Key to meeting the mandatory ethics training requirement was a shift towards a self-directed online training modules. These training modules empower state employees to engage in ethics education anytime, anywhere, provided they have a computer and internet access. Three modules were oﬀered in 2023: 
INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOV
PAGE   4• State employees; •Board and commission members; and •Charter schools. Designed for convenience, these on-demand training sessions require approximately 35 minutes to complete. They oﬀer a user-friendly and adaptable method for state employees to fulfill their ethics training requirements. For direct access, individuals can visit the Commission’s dedicated webpage: https://ethics.hawaii.gov/training/. With assistance from a variety of government agencies, a monumental total of 35,977 participants undertook the self-directed training module in 2023. It should be noted this represents approximately 500% increase in the number of participants over 2022, and a dramatic 7,724% increase over 2021. While difficult to track with specificity, it appears approximately 70% of all state employees met the mandatory ethics training requirement by the end of 2023. These incredible numbers were achieved without any direct increase in budget or staffing of the Commission.  LEGISLATION: In 2023, the Commission, through its Executive Director, actively participated in the Commission to Improve Standards of Conduct, an entity created by the State House of Representatives. Approximately 10 ethics-related policy proposals were drafted, considered, and recommended by the Standards Commissions for consideration by the 2023 Legislature. The Ethics Commission successfully advocated for many of these bills to pass or to be included in Legislative rules. Ethics bills that passed in 2023 included: 
INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOV806% Average participation increase in ethics training in 2023 over past four yearsPAGE   5•Act 8 (HB 137 HD1 of 2022): Lobbyist Disclosures. Beginning 1/1/2025, requires lobbyists to specifically describe the legislative or administrative action worked on during a reporting period.  •Act 9 (HB 140 of 2022): Record Maintenance. Gives greater discretion to the Commission to maintain or destroy financial disclosure records beyond the current 6-year statutory requirement.  •Act 10 (HB 142 of 2022): Lobbyist Gift Giving. Prohibits lobbyists from giving gifts to state employees or legislators that are otherwise prohibited under state ethics law.  •Act 20 (HB 138 of 2022): Mandatory Lobbyist Training. Establishes mandatory lobbyist training as a condition for registration.  •Act 123 (HB 141 of 2022): Legislator Disclosures. Beginning 1/1/2025, requires state legislators to report the names of lobbyists that he or she received income from (even if through another entity, such as a LLC).  •Act 128 (SB 1493 SD1 HD1 CD1): Lobbyist Donations During the Legislative Session. Prohibits lobbyist contributions and expenditures (including promises of contributions or expenditures) to any elected official or candidate during and around the legislative session.  •Act 129 (SB 182 SD1 HD1 CD1): Administrative Fine Procedure. Amends the filing deadline for disclosures of financial interests for candidates to statewide office, and substantively amends the procedure for imposing administrative fines related to disclosures of financial interests.  •Act 261 (HB 717 HD1 SD2 CD1): Nepotism Prohibition. Prohibits most state employees from appointing, hiring, promoting, or retaining relatives and household members and from making or participating in certain other employment-related decisions and from awarding a contract to or otherwise taking official action on a contract with a business if the employee's relative or household member is an executive officer of or holds a substantial INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE   6ownership interest in that business. Imposes administrative fines for violations.  The Ethics Commission is committed to implementing these new laws. Recognizing the complexity of these initiatives, the Commission has prioritized the establishment of a robust rollout of guidance, back office support, and online filing changes to ensure a seamless rollout.  ENFORCEMENT: The Commission enforces the State Ethics Code, HRS chapter 84, and the State Lobbyists Law, HRS chapter 97. The Commission receives and reviews complaints and conducts investigations on a confidential basis concerning alleged violations of the law.  When appropriate, the Commission initiates formal charges against individuals who appear to have violated the law. If there is probable cause to believe that a violation of the law has occurred, the Commission may hold a contested case hearing in accordance with HRS chapter 91, Hawaii’s Administrative Procedure Act.   
INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOV
PAGE   7In 2023, the Commission received 329 new complaints of violations of the Ethics Code and Lobbyists Law. The Commission issued 17 Resolutions to Investigate, authorizing staﬀ to conduct comprehensive investigations, issued three Charges, and closed 360 cases. The Commission publicly resolved four Charges and investigations by issuing a Resolution of Investigation/Charge document. The Commission resolved another 8 matters by issuing ethics guidance and closed 349 other matters for lack of jurisdiction, lack of supporting evidence, or another reason. Many of those cases were referred to other government agencies for action. The Commission assessed a total of $9,500 in administrative penalties, payable to the General Fund.  Notable enforcement actions include: Department of Taxation, Ted Shiraishi:  Resolution of Investigation 2023-2 The Commission resolved an Investigation of Ted Shiraishi, former Administrative Rules Officer of the State of Hawai’i Department of Taxation. Mr. Shiraishi was subject to the post-employment provisions of the State Ethics Code, HRS § 84-18. As such, he was prohibited from representing another person or business for one year on any matter involving action by his former state agency. During this restriction period, Mr. Shiraishi called and sent a letter to the DOTAX rules office on behalf of his new private employer to discuss a tax matter. Mr. Shiraishi had not previously been the subject of a Commission charge or investigation. He cooperated with the Commission’s investigation. He admitted to violating the Post-Employment law and expressed contriteness. He agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $2,000 to the State of Hawai’i. State Public Charter School Commission, Sione Thompson: Resolution of Charge 2023-2 The Commission resolved a Charge against Sione Thompson, the former Executive Director of the State Public Charter School Commission. While serving as the Executive Director, Mr. Thompson sat on the Board of three nonprofit organizations: RiseHI; Hawai’i Children’s Action Network; and Male Hawala. These Board positions were not reported on Mr. Thompson’s financial disclosure 
INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE   8statement. Further, while Executive Director, he awarded approximately $500,000 in contracts to these three nonprofits. Mr. Thompson admitted he violated the Conflicts of Interest law (HRS § 84-14(a)) and the Financial Disclosure law (HRS § 84-17(f)). He agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $5,000 to the State of Hawai’i. Hālau Lōkahi Public Charter School, Laara Allbrett; Resolution of Charge 2023-1 The Commission resolved a charge against Laara Allbrett, the former Director of Hālau Lōkahi Public Charter School, Department of Education. Ms. Allbrett was the Director of Hālau Lōkahi from 2011 to July 2014. Ms. Allbrett used state funds to pay for herself and other family members to attend the graduation of her son and related expenses (total of $2,048.43). Ms. Allbrett admitted she violated the Fair Treatment law, HRS § 84-13(a). She agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $2,500 to the State of Hawai’i. Department  of the Attorney General, Brandon D. Zakahi; Resolution of Investigation 2023-1 The Commission resolved an investigation of Brandon Zakahi, a former legal clerk with the Department of the Attorney General, for violations of the confidentiality section of the State Ethics Code. Mr. Zakahi provided clerical support for deputy attorney generals. As a part of his duties and responsibilities, Mr. Zakahi sent an electronic message to Plaintiﬀ’s counsel in a particular matter that referenced confidential information that Mr. Zakahi had reviewed as a legal clerk. The information was potentially adverse to the State’s defense. Mr. Zakahi admitted he violated the Confidentiality law, HRS § 84-12. He agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $1,000 to the State of Hawai’i.  NEPOTISM EXCEPTIONS As of July 12, 2023 no state employee (except for employees of the legislative or judicial branches) shall “[a]ppoint, hire, promote, or retain a relative or household member to, or demote, discharge, or terminate a relative or household member from . . . a paid position in the employee’s employing agency . . . .” The Commission INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE   9“may grant an exception to an employee or agency that is unable to comply with this section for good cause, including a demonstrated lack of qualified personnel or applicants.” Act 261 at (g). On May 17, 2023, the Commission delegated “the initial decision on any good cause exception application to the Executive Director.”  A total of five nepotism good cause exception applications were considered in 2023. These decisions are public and can be found on the Commission’s website at https://hawaiiethics.my.site.com/public/s/ethics-advice/Ethics_Advice__c/00B6R00000AwpdxUAB or https://ethics.hawaii.gov/opinionpubs/. FINANCIAL & GIFTS DISCLOSURES The Commission administers the filing requirements of the financial disclosure law and the gifts disclosure law, which help provide accountability and transparency in government. In 2023, the Commission received 1,805 financial disclosure statements. Public disclosure statements (for elected officials, department directors, and other designated state officials) are available on the Commission’s “public data” portion of its website. The Commission received and published 236 gifts disclosure statements, all of which are available on the “public data” portion of the Commission’s website. LOBBYISTS REGISTRATION & EXPENDITURE REPORTS   The Commission administers HRS chapter 97, the Lobbyists Law, which requires lobbyists to register with the Commission and file periodic expenditure reports. In 2019, the Commission launched its new electronic filing system for lobbying registration and reporting, allowing lobbyists to register and file their periodic expenditure reports electronically. The Commission is continually upgrading and improving the e-filing system for lobbying, financial disclosures, and gifts disclosures; the Commission launched a series of enhancements in 2023 to make it easier for filers to complete their forms. 
INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE   10In 2023, the Commission received and published 523 lobbyist registration statements, representing 448 organizations, along with 1,252 lobbyist expenditure reports. FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE: The Commission partnered with the Department of the Attorney General to launch an anti-fraud hotline aimed at identifying fraud, waste, and abuse of government funds. The agencies developed a website and online complaint form (antifraud.hawaii.gov), dedicated phone hotline (808.587.0000), and dedicated email address (antifraud@hawaii.gov) where individuals can confidentially report suspected violations. These anti-fraud resources were created to empower the public with confidential, easy-to-use methods to report potential violations. OFFICE MODERNIZATION In 2023, the Commission adeptly negotiated a restructuring of its office lease terms, securing a favorable monthly rate reduction. Additionally, an agreement was reached to refurbish the office premises, bearing no supplementary costs for the State of Hawai’i. Having occupied the same office for approximately three decades with minimal updates, this renovation initiative was both timely and necessary. The modernization encompassed enhancements such as upgraded carpeting, installation of energy-efficient lighting, refreshed paintwork, and a reimagined office layout, all designed to optimize both operational efficiency and visual appeal. SCANNING DOCUMENTS In 2023, the Commission successfully completed the digitization of most essential office documents, a critical step towards a paperless initiative. Approximately 75,000 pages were scanned into digital format and then safely shredded. The scanning process not only increased document accessibility and security but also paved the way for streamlined data management. By leveraging advanced optical character recognition (OCR) technology, the Commission can now more efficiently retrieve and share information, contributing to a more productive and eco-friendly work environment. INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE   11INVENTORY OPTIMIZATION In conjunction with reducing overall paper documentation in the office, the Commission worked to remove obsolete and unnecessary furniture items. With the approval of the Speaker of the House and Senate President, 12 filing cabinets, 9 desks, and 4 chairs were oﬀered to other state agencies, donated to charity, or appropriately discarded. This optimization created more open and functional areas, leading to a more modern and decluttered office space. 2023 ETHICS IN HAWAI’I CONFERENCE The Commission coordinated with the Honolulu Ethics Commission to organize a day-long state-wide Ethics in Hawai’i Conference, drawing participation from each county, totaling 38 attendees. Esteemed speakers, renowned in the fields of ethics and criminal justice, oﬀered an overview of pertinent topics and emerging trends. A key focus was on contemporary ethics scandals in the news, with a discussion on how to better prevent and address corruption at the state and county level.  The conference's agenda encompassed training sessions and fostering skill development among participants. The interactive nature of the discussions facilitated robust engagement, encouraging collaborative learning, and the exchange of best practices. A notable outcome of the event was the strengthened network of relationships between county representatives and state agencies. The collaborative spirit exhibited throughout the conference underscores a collective commitment to advancing ethical standards across Hawai’i. The Ethics in Hawai’i Conference served as a pivotal platform for professional development, knowledge dissemination, and the cultivation of collaborative partnerships, setting a constructive tone for ongoing endeavors to advance ethics on a statewide basis. COMMISSIONERS AND STAFF: The Commission is comprised of five members nominated by the State Judicial Council and appointed by the Governor for four-year terms. The Commission INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE   12welcomed one new member in 2023. The current members of the Commission are Wesley Fong (Chair), Harry McCarthy (Vice Chair), Beverley Tobias, Robert Hong, and Cynthia Thielen. As of December 2023, the Commission employs a staﬀ of eleven: Executive Director Robert D. Harris; Compliance Director Bonita Chang; Enforcement Director Kee Campbell; three staﬀ attorneys (Nancy Neuﬀer, Jennifer Yamanuha, and Jodi Yi); Investigator Jared Elster; Computer Specialist Patrick Lui; Office Manager Caroline Choi; Secretary Lynnette Santiago; and Administrative Assistant Myles Yamamoto.  The Commission is in the process of hiring a full-time analyst.  The Commission prioritizes fiscal prudence and efficiency. In 2023, the Commission was able to return $70,124.24 of its allocated budget back to the General Fund. 
 
INFO.ETHICS@HAWAII.GOV (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVFor quick, confidential ethics advice, or to lodge a confidential complaint, please contact the Commission at info.ethics@hawaii.gov or 587-0460.
INTERNATIONAL LEADERSHIP  As a part of a national professional leadership program, Executive Director Robert Harris was selected to travel to Moldova to advise key stakeholders on necessary eﬀorts to build an ethical democracy. There, he met with dozens of government leaders; U.S. Embassy staﬀ; members of the media; and NGO leaders. Comparisons to Hawai’i were made based on Hawaii’s leadership in being the first state to establish a constitutionally mandated ethics commission and its role in helping found the Conference on Governmental Ethics Laws (COGEL) organization.

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022HSECAnnualReport.pdf) ---
2022 ANNUAL REPORT
HAWAI’I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION
1001 Bishop St. #970 Honolulu, HI 96813 (808) 587-0460  www.ethics.hawaii.gov ethics@hawaiiethics.orgPAGE 2Hawai’i State Ethics Commission 2022 ANNUAL REPORT MISSION & DUTIES 
Established in 1968, the Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission – the first state ethics commission in the United States – represents a commitment by the people of Hawai‘i to the principles that “public officers and employees must exhibit the highest standards of ethical conduct[,] and that these standards come from the personal integrity of each individual in government.” Hawai‘i Constitution, article XIV. The constitution further requires that the State, and each of its subdivisions, establish a code of ethics for public officers and employees. Pursuant to this constitutional mandate, the Commission is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the State Ethics Code and the State Lobbyists Law, chapters 84 and 97, Hawai‘i Revised Statutes (“HRS”), respectively. The Ethics Code includes laws relating to the acceptance and reporting of gifts, confidential information, fair treatment (the prohibited misuse of official position), conflicts of interests, state contracts, and post-employment restrictions, along with a requirement that state legislators, candidates for state elective office, and certain state employees file financial disclosure statements.   For purposes of the State Ethics Code, the Commission has jurisdiction over more than 50,000 state officials and employees. This includes state legislators and other elected state officials, employees of the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government (except for judges and justices), and members of all state boards and commissions. The State Ethics Code’s financial disclosure law also applies to all candidates for state elective office.   
ETHICS@HAWAIIETHICS.ORG (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOV
PAGE 3The Commission also administers the State Lobbyists Law, HRS chapter 97, which applies to lobbying activities at the state level. The Lobbyists Law requires lobbyists to register with the Commission and requires lobbyists and organizations that lobby to report lobbying expenditures and contributions on forms filed with the Commission. The Commission has jurisdiction over nearly 500 lobbyists representing more than 400 organizations that lobby the state legislature or executive branch. ETHICS ADVICE The Commission issues advisory opinions and other types of guidance (including written staﬀ opinion letters by the Commission’s attorneys) about the application of the State Ethics Code and the State Lobbyists Law. In 2022, the Commission’s attorneys received and responded to 1,129 requests for advice from state legislators, state employees, lobbyists, members of the public, and candidates for state elective office. The Commission considers its ability to provide timely and meaningful guidance and advice to be one of its most essential functions.   In 2022, the Commission issued two formal Advisory Opinions, all of which are available via the Commission’s public data website and on Westlaw, a legal research platform: 1.Advisory Opinion 2022-1, addressed whether a state employee could apply to her own state agency for a license to operate a private business. Because the employee was directly involved in regulating this industry, the Commission concluded that the State Ethic Code prohibited the employee from applying for and obtaining the requested license while being employed by that agency.  2.Advisory Opinion 2022-2, advising whether state employees may own a business and, through that business, procure the services of an Agency research facility. The Commission concluded that the State Ethics Codes does not prohibit this, provided the employees abided by certain restrictions. The Commission provided guidance to avoid potential conflicts of interest and noted the employees could not use their state position to obtain unwarranted advantages or benefits for themselves, their business, or any of its clients.  
ETHICS@HAWAIIETHICS.ORG (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE 4ETHICS EDUCATION The Commission is charged with educating state officials and employees about ethics in government, HRS § 84-31(a)(7). To fulfill this mandate, the Commission conducts in-person and videoconference trainings, and oﬀers self-directed online training modules throughout the year. In 2022, the Commission conducted twenty-seven training sessions via videoconference with a total of 3,157 participants. In addition to oﬀering general ethics trainings, the Commission scheduled several specialized trainings targeted towards lobbyists, board & commission members, and legislators. The Commission also oﬀered two sessions with Continuing Legal Education credits for government attorneys. As a change in 2022, the Commission moved towards a set calendar of trainings. While the Commission will consider requests for tailored agency trainings, the Commission encourages participants to sign up for one of the regularly scheduled trainings. The Commission’s videoconference training calendar can be found at https://ethics.hawaii.gov/training/#signup. The Commission also oﬀers on-demand, on-line training modules for (1) state employees; (2) board and commission members; and (3) charter schools. These on-demand training modules take around 35-minutes to complete and are intended to be a flexible and easy way for state employees to take an ethics training at their convenience. They can be accessed from any device with an internet connection. These modules are available on the Commission’s website at https://ethics.hawaii.gov/ethicsonlinetraining/. A total of 
ETHICS@HAWAIIETHICS.ORG (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOV
ETHICS EDUCATION MANDATE: Starting on January 1, 2023, all state employees will be required to take either a live or online ethics training course within ninety days of becoming an employee and at least once every four years thereafter. The Commission is meeting this new requirement by, among other things, collaborating with the University of Hawai’i, the Judiciary, and the Department of Human Resources Development to incorporate its on-demand, on-line training modules into their existing on-line training platforms.PAGE 56,042 employees completed an on-demand training module with the Commission in 2022.  Cumulatively, a total of 9,199 individuals were trained by the Commission through its in-person training, web-based training, and videoconference training programs in 2022. LEGISLATION In 2022, the Commission successfully advocated for the passage of Act 165 (H.B. 1475), which mandates ethics training for all State employees. This new law requires state employees to complete a live or online ethics training course within ninety days of becoming an employee and at least once every four years thereafter. Existing employees, if they have not taken an ethics training within three years, must take a new ethics training by January 1, 2024.  In addition, the Commission, through its Executive Director, actively participated in the Commission to Improve Standards of Conduct. Approximately 10 ethics-related policy proposals were drafted, considered, and recommended by the Standards Commissions for consideration by the 2023 Legislature.  ENFORCEMENT The Commission enforces the State Ethics Code, HRS chapter 84, and the State Lobbyists Law, HRS chapter 97. The Commission receives and reviews complaints and conducts investigations on a confidential basis concerning alleged violations of the law.  When appropriate, the Commission initiates formal charges against individuals who appear to have violated the law. If there is probable cause to believe that a violation of the law has occurred, the Commission may hold a contested case hearing in accordance with HRS chapter 91, Hawaii’s Administrative Procedure Act.   In 2022, the Commission received 240 new complaints of violations of the Ethics Code and Lobbyists Law. The Commission issued fifteen Resolutions authorizing staﬀ to conduct investigations, issued three Charges, and closed 169 cases. The Commission publicly resolved three Charges and investigations (including those below) by issuing a Resolution of Investigation/Charge document. The Commission resolved another 10 ETHICS@HAWAIIETHICS.ORG (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE 6matters by issuing ethics guidance and closed 140 other matters for lack of jurisdiction, lack of supporting evidence, or another reason. Many of those cases were referred to other government agencies for action. The Commission assessed a total of $2,550 in administrative penalties, payable to the General Fund, in addition to $16,600 in restitution in one matter.  Notable enforcement actions include: Hawai’i State Senate, Senator Jarrett Keohokalole:  Resolution of Investigation 2022-1 The Commission resolved an Investigation of Jarrett Keohokalole, Senator, Hawai’i State Senate. On two occasions, Senator Keohokalole used campaign funds to pay for travel expenses ($894.89 and $303.60, respectively). He later requested, and received, reimbursement from the state for the same expenses. The money was deposited to his personal account instead of reimbursing his campaign account. Similarly, Senator Keohokalole used campaign funds to purchase food for a town hall meeting ($65.55). He also received reimbursement from the state, and those funds were put into his personal account instead of going to his campaign account. The respondent admitted to violating the Fair Treatment law (Haw. Rev. Stat. § 84-13) and agreed to repay the $1,264.05 to the State of Hawai’i and pay an additional administrative penalty of $1,500.  Hawai’i State Senate, Senator Maile Shimabukuro: Resolution of Investigation 2022-2  The Commission resolved an Investigation of Maile Shimabukuro, Senator, Hawai’i State Senate. Senator Shimabukuro participated, in her official capacity, in a parade to celebrate several Nanakuli School student athletic teams. At the event, small goodie bags were passed out that included the name of her campaign committee and contact information for the campaign committee. Senator Shimabukuro did not suggest or direct the placement of these cards, but she accepted responsibility for the occurrence. 
ETHICS@HAWAIIETHICS.ORG (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOV
PAGE 7Respondent admitted to violating the Fair Treatment law (Haw. Rev. Stat. § 84-13) and agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $300.  Department of Education, Moanalua Elementary School: Resolution of Investigation 2022-3 The Commission resolved an investigation of a teacher, Irene Bayudan, at Moanalua Elementary School. Respondent participated in a training where she was told that money or checks could not be personally accepted by teachers. Nonetheless, Respondent accepted six checks from an elderly volunteer at the school totalling $16,600. These funds were deposited into a personal bank account, and not used for school-related purposes. Respondent knew the donor solely because of her position as a teacher at Moanalua Elementary. Respondent acknowledged she violated the Fair Treatment law and the Gifts law. She agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $750 to the State of Hawai’i and pay restitution of $16,600 to the donor.  FINANCIAL & GIFTS DISCLOSURES The Commission administers the filing requirements of the financial disclosure law and the gifts disclosure law, which help provide accountability and transparency in government. In 2022, the Commission received 1,872 financial disclosure statements, including 263 disclosure statements for candidates of state elective office. Public disclosure statements (for elected officials, department directors, and other designated state officials) are available on the Commission’s public data website. The Commission ETHICS@HAWAIIETHICS.ORG (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOV
PAGE 8received and published 151 gifts disclosure statements, all of which are available on the Commission’s public data website. LOBBYISTS REGISTRATION & EXPENDITURE REPORTS   The Commission administers HRS chapter 97, the Lobbyists Law, which requires lobbyists to register with the Commission and file periodic expenditure reports. In 2019, the Commission launched its new electronic filing system for lobbying registration and reporting, allowing lobbyists to register and file their periodic expenditure reports electronically. The Commission is continually upgrading and improving the e-filing system for lobbying, financial disclosures, and gifts disclosures; the Commission launched a series of enhancements in 2022 to make it easier for filers to complete their forms. In 2022, the Commission received and published 552 lobbyist registration statements from 529 lobbyists, representing 428 organizations, along with 1,217 lobbyist expenditure reports. FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE The Commission partnered with the Department of the Attorney General to launch an anti- fraud hotline aimed at identifying fraud, waste, and abuse of government funds. The agencies developed a website and online complaint form (antifraud.hawaii.gov), dedicated phone hotline (808.587.0000), and dedicated email address (antifraud@hawaii.gov) where individuals can confidentially report suspected violations. These anti-fraud resources were created to complement the state’s eﬀorts to use CARES Act funds responsibly and empower the public with confidential, easy-to-use methods to report potential violations. COMMISSIONERS AND STAFF The Commission is comprised of five members nominated by the State Judicial Council and appointed by the Governor for four-year terms. The Commission welcomed one new member in 2022. The current members of the Commission are Wesley Fong ETHICS@HAWAIIETHICS.ORG (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVPAGE 9(Chairperson), Reynard Graulty (Vice Chairperson), Harry McCarthy, Beverley Tobias, and Robert Hong. As of December 2022, the Commission employs a staﬀ of nine: Executive Director Robert D. Harris; Associate Director Susan Yoza; four staﬀ attorneys (Nancy Neuﬀer, Bonita Chang, Kee Campbell, and Jennifer Yamanuha); Computer Specialist Patrick Lui; Office Manager Caroline Choi; and Secretary Lynnette Santiago.  The Commission is in the process of hiring an an administrative assistant and an investigator.  The Commission prioritizes fiscal prudence and efficiency. In 2022, the Commission was able to return approximately $35,000 of its allocated budget back to the General Fund. 
ETHICS@HAWAIIETHICS.ORG (808) 587-0460WWW.ETHICS.HAWAII.GOVFor quick, confidential ethics advice, or to lodge a confidential complaint, please contact the Commission at ethics@hawaiiethics.org or 587-0460.

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021HSECAnnualReport.pdf) ---
1 
   
1001 Bishop St. #970 • Honolulu, HI 96813 • 808.587.0460 • ethics@hawaiiethics.org  www.ethics.hawaii.gov • @HawaiiEthics 
HAWAI‘I  STATE  ETHICS COMMISSION 
2021 Annual Report 
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org • (808) 587-0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov 2 Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission Mission & Duties  Established in 1968, the Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission – the first state ethics commission in the United States – represents a commitment by the people of Hawai‘i to the principles that “public officers and employees must exhibit the highest standards of ethical conduct[,] and that these standards come from the personal integrity of each individual in government.”  Hawai‘i Constitution, article XIV.  The constitution further requires that the State, and each of its subdivisions, establish a code of ethics for public officers and employees.  Pursuant to this constitutional mandate, the Commission is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the State Ethics Code and the State Lobbyists Law, chapters 84 and 97, Hawai‘i Revised Statutes (“HRS”), respectively.  The Ethics Code includes laws relating to the acceptance and reporting of gifts, confidential information, fair treatment (the prohibited misuse of official position), conflicts of interests, state contracts, and post-employment restrictions, along with a requirement that state legislators, candidates for state elective office, and certain state employees file financial disclosure statements.    For purposes of the State Ethics Code, the Commission has jurisdiction over more than 50,000 state officials and employees.  This includes state legislators and other elected state officials, employees of the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government (except for judges and justices), and members of all state boards and commissions.  The State Ethics Code’s financial disclosure law also applies to all candidates for state elective office.    The Commission also administers the State Lobbyists Law, HRS chapter 97, which applies to lobbying activities at the state level.  The Lobbyists Law requires lobbyists to register with the Commission and requires lobbyists and organizations that lobby to report lobbying expenditures and contributions on forms filed with the Commission.  The Commission has jurisdiction over nearly 500 lobbyists representing more than 400 organizations that lobby the state legislature or executive branch.    
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587 -0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  3 
Ethics Advice  
The Commission issues advisory opinions and other types of guidance (including written staff 
opinion letters by the Commission’s attorneys) about the application of the State Ethics Code and the 
State Lobbyists Law.  In 2021, the Commission’s attorneys received and responded to 851 requests 
for advice from state legislators, state employees, lobbyists, members of the public, and candidates for 
state elective office.  The Commission considers its ability to provide timely and meaningful guidance 
and advice to be one of its most essential functions.   
In 2021 , the Commission issued three formal Advisory Opinions, all of which are available via 
the Commission’s  public data website  and on Westlaw, a legal research platfor m: 
1.Advisory Opinion 2021-1 , advising that agency employees may accept a $100 stipend as  
compensation for work performed for nonprofit organizations outside of work hours.  The  
Commission gave significant weight to the fact that the Agency was partnering with the  
nonprofit organizations to further the State’s interests and that the Agency was encouraging  
the employees to undertake this extra work.  The Commission also stated that a $100  
stipend was not excessive, given that the employees would have to perform between 4.5  and 
7 hours of work – again, outside of state work hours – to receive the stipend.
2.Advisory Opinion 2021-2, advising that agency employees who became employees of a  
nonprofit corporation (rather than remaining as state employees) could communicate with  
their former agency immediately after leaving state service, notwithstanding the post-
employment law (HRS § 84-18), when the nonprofit corporation was created by the state  
agency for the purpose of employing this small class of state employees.
3.Advisory Opinion 2021-3, advising that certain specialized employees are permitted to use  
state equipment on their personal time, given the need for these employees to maintain their  
proficiency in using the specialized equipment.  However, the Commission required the  
employees’ agency to develop and implement a policy to regulate the employees’ personal  
use of state equipment.     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org • (808) 587-0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov 4       
851 
3 
24 
2,226 Requests for Advice  Advisory Opinions Interactive Trainings Individuals Trained  Ethics Education  The Commission is charged with educating state officials and employees about ethics in government, HRS § 84-31(a)(7).  To fulfill this mandate, the Commission conducts ethics trainings throughout the year.  Traditionally, the Commission holds in-person trainings throughout the islands, providing participants an interactive education in a face-to-face setting.  In March 2020, the Commission had to suspend all its in-person trainings because of COVID-19.  The Commission pivoted to using videoconference technology to train state officials in real-time – allowing for interactive question-and-answer sessions while adhering to COVID-19 safety regulations.  In 2021, the Commission conducted twenty-three training sessions via videoconference and one session in person. Two of the videoconference sessions offered Continuing Legal Education (“CLE”) credits for government attorneys.  The Commission also conducted mandatory ethics training sessions for newly elected and appointed officials as required by HRS § 84-42.    In addition, after launching an on-demand, on-line training module for state employees in 2020, the Commission developed and launched a second module specifically for members of boards and commissions.  This 35-minute on-line training module can be accessed from any device with an internet connection and is available on the Commission’s website at https://ethics.hawaii.gov/ethicsonlinetraining/.  The Commission expects to launch a third on-line training specifically for public charter school governing board members in January 2022.  A total of 460 individuals completed an on-line training module in 2021, such that the Commission reached a total of 2,226 individuals through its in-person training, web-based training, and videoconference training programs in 2021.     Legislation  In 2021, the Commission successfully advocated for the passage of Act 189 (H.B. 671), which strengthened Hawaii’s post-employment laws:  the measure prohibits certain high-level state employees, including department directors and other heads of agencies, from lobbying for one year after leaving state service.  The measure also provides that former employees are prohibited from using or revealing confidential information gained during state service, regardless of the length of the employees’ state service (as this portion of the post-employment law, HRS § 84-18, previously applied only to employees who served for longer than six months)      
ethics@hawaiiethics.org • (808) 587-0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov 5 Enforcement  The Commission enforces the State Ethics Code, HRS chapter 84, and the State Lobbyists Law, HRS chapter 97. The Commission receives and reviews complaints and conducts investigations on a confidential basis concerning alleged violations of the law.  When appropriate, the Commission initiates formal charges against individuals who appear to have violated the law. If there is probable cause to believe that a violation of the law has occurred, the Commission may hold a contested case hearing in accordance with HRS chapter 91, Hawaii’s Administrative Procedure Act.    In 2021, the Commission received 123 new complaints of violations of the Ethics Code and Lobbyists Law.  The Commission issued fifteen Resolutions authorizing staff to conduct investigations, issued two Charges (and received – and thereafter dismissed – two Charges against multiple state employees filed by members of the public), and closed 123 cases. The Commission publicly resolved ten Charges and investigations (including those below) by issuing a Resolution of Investigation/Charge document.  The Commission resolved another 32 matters by issuing ethics guidance and closed 119 other matters for lack of jurisdiction, lack of supporting evidence, or another reason.  Many of those cases were referred to other government agencies for action). The Commission assessed a total of $20,300 in administrative penalties, payable to the General Fund, in addition to $328.83 in restitution in one matter.  Notable enforcement actions include:  University of Hawai‘i, Study Abroad Center:  Resolution of Charge 2021-02  The Commission resolved a Charge issued against Sarita Rai, the Director of the Study Abroad Center (“SAC”) at the University of Hawai‘i.  For several years, the SAC sold identification cards to students for use when traveling abroad; students paid several dollars more than the actual cost of the card, and the SAC kept the excess funds in a non-University account.  The respondent then used those funds to pay for alcohol, food, and holiday parties for herself and others.  The respondent admitted to violating the Fair Treatment law (HRS § 84-13) and agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $5,500.    Ka Waihona o Ka Na‘auao Public Charter School:  Resolution of Investigation 2021-06     The Commission resolved an investigation of Alvin Parker, the former Principal of a public charter school.  While Principal of the school, Parker authorized three employees to take cash advances from the school, using school funds.  Cash advances to two employees, totaling $25,000 and $5,000, were repaid in full.  The third employee was Parker’s spouse.  Parker’s 
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org • (808) 587-0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov 6 spouse repaid $5,000 of $13,000 in cash advances, and Parker contended that the remaining $8,000 was properly offset against back pay owed to him.  The respondent admitted to violating the Fair Treatment law (HRS 84-13) in authorizing the cash advances and agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $4,000.  Department of Human Services, Hawai‘i Youth Correctional Facility:  Resolution of Investigation 2021-01 and 2021-02   The Commission resolved investigations of two employees of the Hawai‘i Youth Correctional Facility (“HYCF”).  First, the Institutional Facility Superintendent admitted to violating the Fair Treatment law (HRS § 84-13), and agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $4,000, for using HYCF equipment and other state resources for his private cattle ranching business, among other things.  Second, the HYCF Administrator admitted to violating the Fair Treatment law and agreed to pay a $1,500 administrative penalty for several actions, including (1) authorizing a private religious organization to store several trailers (free of charge) on HYCF property and (2) authorizing state resources to mow/clear private property.    Costco Wholesale Corporation and its Registered Lobbyists:  Resolution of Investigation 2021-04   Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) and six registered lobbyists failed to file four consecutive lobbying expenditure reports.  They admitted that they did not file timely lobbying reports and agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $2,000.  Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Conservation and Resources Enforcement:  Resolution of Investigation 2021-08 and 2021-09   The Commission resolved an investigation of a DLNR-DOCARE employee and the employee’s supervisor, both of whom admitted to violating the Fair Treatment law, HRS § 84-13, by spending approximately three hours of state time, on state property, repairing the employee’s personal vehicle.  The employee and supervisor agreed to pay administrative penalties of $300 and $500, respectively.    Financial & Gifts Disclosures The Commission administers the filing requirements of the financial disclosure law and the gifts disclosure law, which help provide accountability and transparency in government.  In 2021, the Commission received 1,846 financial disclosure statements.  Public disclosure statements (for elected officials, department directors, and other designated state officials) are available on the Commission’s public data website.  The Commission received and published 97 gifts disclosure statements, all of which are available on the Commission’s public data website.         
ethics@hawaiiethics.org • (808) 587-0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov 7  Judicial Candidate Reviews The Commission provides information to the Judicial Selection Commission on applicants for judicial office.  In 2021, the Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission provided information on approximately 107 applicants (including current judges seeking retention).    Lobbyists Law: Registration & Expenditure Reports The Commission administers HRS chapter 97, the Lobbyists Law, which requires lobbyists to register with the Commission and file periodic expenditure reports.  In 2019, the Commission launched its new electronic filing system for lobbying registration and reporting, allowing lobbyists to register and file their periodic expenditure reports electronically.  The Commission is continually upgrading and improving the e-filing system for lobbying, financial disclosures, and gifts disclosures; the Commission launched a series of enhancements in 2021 to make it easier for filers to complete their forms.  In 2021, the Commission received and published 894 lobbyist registration statements from 462 lobbyists, representing 396 organizations, along with 1,209 lobbyist expenditure reports.  Although we started a new lobbying cycle in 2021, the numbers are comparable to 2020 (1,018 registration statements, 486 lobbyists, 435 organizations, and 1,207 lobbyist expenditure reports).    Commissioners and Staff  The Commission is comprised of five members nominated by the State Judicial Council and appointed by the Governor for four-year terms, and the Commission welcomed two new members in 2021.  The current members of the Commission are Melinda Wood (Chairperson), Wesley Fong (Vice Chairperson), Reynard Graulty, Harry McCarthy, and Beverley Tobias.  As of January 2022, the Commission employs a staff of nine: Executive Director Robert D. Harris, Associate Director Susan Yoza, three staff attorneys (Nancy Neuffer, Bonita Chang, and Kee Campbell) Computer Specialist Patrick Lui; Office Manager Caroline Choi; Secretary Lynnette Santiago; and Investigator Jason Kamisugi.  As the COVID-19 crisis continued, the Commission – whose budget had been approved prior to onset of the pandemic – cut its expenses, left a staff position vacant, and delayed salary increases for staff.  Consequently, the Commission was able to return 7.7% of its allocated budget to the General Fund ($96,612 out of a total budget of $1,252,667). =;=<


N

/REE\LVW5HJLVWUDWLRQ6WDWHPHQWV)LOHG/REE\LQJ([SHQGLWXUH5HSRUWV)LOHG7RWDO1XPEHURI5HJLVWHUHG/REE\LVWV/REE\LQJ2UJDQL]DWLRQV5HSUHVHQWHG)LQDQFLDO'LVFORVXUH6WDWHPHQWV)LOHG*LIWV'LVFORVXUH6WDWHPHQWV)LOHG

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/2020HSECAnnualReport.pdf) ---
1 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
1001 Bishop St. #970  • Honolulu, HI 96813  • 808.587.0460 • ethics@hawaiiethics.org   
www.ethics.hawaii.gov  • @HawaiiEthics  
HAWAI‘I  
STATE  
ETHICS COMMISSION  
2020 Annual Report  
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587- 0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  2 
Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission  
Mission & Duties  
 
Established in 1968, the Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission – the first state ethics commission in the 
United States – represents a commitment by the people of Hawai‘i to the principles that “public 
officers and employees must exhibit the highest standards of ethical conduct[,] and that these standards 
come from the personal integrity of each individual in government.”  Ha wai‘i Constitution, article 
XIV.  The constitution further requires that the State, and each of its subdivisions, establish a code of 
ethics for public officers and employees.  
 
Pursuant to this constitutional mandate, t he Commission is responsible for the administration and 
enforcement of the State Ethics Code and the State Lobbyists Law, chapters 84 and 97, Hawai‘i 
Revised Statutes (“HRS”), respectively.  The Ethics Code includes laws relating to the acceptance and reporting of gifts, confidential informat ion, fair treatment (the prohibited misuse of official position), 
conflicts of interests, state contracts, and post -employment restrictions , along with a requirement that 
state legislators, candidates for state elective office, and certain state employees file financial disclosure statements .   
 For purposes of the State Ethics Code, the Commission has jurisdiction over more than 50,000 state 
officials and employees.  This includes state legislators and other elected state officials, employees of 
the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government (except for judges and justices), and members of all state boards and commissions.  The State Ethics Code’s financial disclosure law also applies to all candidates for state elective office.   
 The Comm ission also administers the State Lobbyists Law, HRS chapter 97 , which applies to lobbying 
activities at the state level.  The Lobbyists Law requires lobbyists to register with the Commission and requires lobbyists and organizations that lobby to report lobbying expenditures and contributions on 
forms filed with the Commission.  T he Commission has jurisdiction over nearly 500 lobbyists 
representing more than 400 organizations that lobby the state legislature or executive branch.  
 
  
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587- 0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  3 
Ethics Advice  
 
 The Commission issues advisory opinions and other types of guidance (including written staff 
opinion letters by the Commission’s attorneys) about the appli cation of the State Ethics Code and the 
State Lobbyists Law.  In 2020, the Commission’s attorneys rec eived and responded to 950 requests 
for advice  from state legislators, state employees, lobbyists, members of the public , and candidates for 
state elective office.  The Commission considers its ability to provide timely and meaningful  guidance 
and advice to be one of its most essential functions.   
 In 20 20, the Commission issued two formal Advisory Opinions, both  of which are available 
via the Commission’s  public data website
 and on Westlaw, a legal research platfor m: 
 
1. Advisory Opinion 2020- 1, advising that a member of a state board may vote on the 
approval of online continuing education courses  – and administrative rules pertaining to 
those courses  – notwithstanding the member’s personal connections to the president of a 
professional associat ion, provided that the member does not provide any unwarranted 
benefits to the president or professional association. 
 
2. Advisory Opinion 2020- 2, discussing the prohibition against substantial financial 
transactions between supervisors and subordinates , and advising that a member of the state 
legislature may not use private funds to compensate a legislative intern .  
 
 
Ethics Survey of State Employees  
 
The Commission values receiving input from state officials and recognizes that constant 
dialogue is imperative to fostering high ethical standards in government.  With this in mind, the 
Commission worked in partnership with Professors Sonia Ghumman and Han nah-Hahn Nguyen from 
the University of Hawai‘i to design and disseminate an ethics survey to a sample  of state employees 
across Hawai‘i . 
 The Commission developed the ethics survey in order to gain a better awareness of the areas of 
concern that need to be  further addressed through enforcement or education.  This includes the general 
level of familiarity with the State Ethics Code among state workers, potential ethics infractions that may be of concern, and any large or long- standing ethics problems that ma y exist in a particular state 
agency.  The survey was distributed electronically and took an estimated ten minutes to complete.  Survey respondents were provided assurance of anonymity as all identifying information associated with a survey response was re moved.  
 Approximately 2,300 state officials completed the survey, and t he Commission is currently 
collaborating with the University of Hawai‘i to analyze the results and develop meaningful recommendations.  The University researchers and the Commission are also working together on a  
journal article discussing this research and plan to submit the article for publication in early 2021.  
 
      
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587- 0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  4 
 
 
   
  
950 
 2 
 2,300 + 
 20 
 2,888  
Requests for  
Advice  Advisory 
Opinions  Employees  
Surveyed  Interactive 
Trainings  Individuals 
Trained  
   
Ethics Education  
 The Commission is charged with educ ating state officials and employees about ethics in 
government , HRS § 84- 31(a)(7).  T o fulfill this mandate, the Commission conducts ethics trainings 
throughout the year.  Traditionally, the Commission holds in- person trainings throughout the islands, 
providing participants an interactive education in a face -to-face setting.  In March 2020, the 
Commission had to suspend all its in -person trainings because of COVID -19.  The Commission 
pivoted to using videoconference technology to train state officials in real -time – allowing for 
interactive question -and-answer sessions  while adhering to COV ID-19 safety regulations.   
 In addition, the Commission launched an on- demand, on- line training module that is available 
to all state employees to complete at their convenience.  This 30 -minute on -line training module can be 
accessed from any device with an internet connection and is available on the Commission’s website at https://ethics.hawaii.gov/ethicsonlinetraining/
.  The on- line training module is available to participants 
from all state  departments  on all islands , and  a total of 1,692 individuals received  a certificate of 
completion  in 2020.  The Commission expects to launch a new on- line training specifically for Board 
and Commission members in early 2021.  
 The Commission reached a total of 2,888 individuals through its in- person training , web -based 
training, and videoconference training programs in 2020, an increase of over 750 people when compared to 2019.  The Commission held ten  in-person trainings and ten videoconference t raining 
sessions, reaching 1,196 individuals in a live, interactive format.  Two of the videoconference s essions 
offered Continuing Legal Education (“CLE”) credits for government attorneys.  The Commission also conducted mandatory ethics training sessions for all newly elected state officials as required by HRS § 84- 42.   
            
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587- 0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  5 
 
Enforcement  
 
The Commission enforce s the State Ethics 
Code, HRS chapter 84,  and the State Lobbyists 
Law, HRS chapter 97. The Commission receives 
and reviews complaints and conducts investigations on a confidential basis concerning alleged violations of the law.  When appropriate, the Commission initiates formal charges against individuals who appear to have violated the law. If there is probable cause to believe that a violation of the law has occurred, the Commission may hold a contested case hearing in accordance with HRS  
chapter 91, Hawaii’s Administrative Procedure Act.   
 
In 2020, the Commission received 129 new 
complaints of violations of the Ethics Code and Lobbyists Law  – double  the number of complaints 
received in 2019 (65) . The Commission issued thirty -three Resolutions authorizing staff to conduct 
investigations, issued four  Charges  (and received one Charge filed by members of the public) , and 
closed 112 cases  (up from 75 cases closed in 2019) . The Commission publicly resolved thirteen  
Charges and investigat ions (including those below) by issuing a Resolution of Investigation/Charge 
document .  The Commission resolved another  fourteen matters by issuing ethics guidance and closed 
85 other matters  for lack of jurisdiction, lack of supporting evidence, or another reason .  Many of those 
cases were referred to other government agencies for action ). The Commission assessed a total of 
$47,225 in administrative penalties , payable to the General Fund. Notable enforcement actions include:  
 
 
Department of Health (“ DOH”), Office of Health Care Assurance: Resolution of Investigation 
2020- 05 
 
The Commission resolved an investigation involving a DOH employee who used his official 
position as a state inspector to obtain unwarranted advantages for himself and his private employer, a  real estate brokerage firm.  The respondent admitted to multiple violations of the 
Fair Treatment law, HRS §  84-13, including soliciting  private real estate business from two 
adult residential care home (“ARCH”) operators  while conducting state inspections of their 
care homes  and using state time for private business . The respondent  admitted to  personally 
receiv ing a commission of $9,947.50 (out of a total commission of $22,750 received by his real 
estate brokerage firm) from one  private real estate transaction that resulted from him soliciting 
business from an ARCH operator .  The  respondent agreed to pay an administrative penalty of 
$25,000, and the matter was referred to DOH for disciplinary action as appropriate.   
 
 
 
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587- 0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  6 
Department of Land and Natural Resources (“DLNR”), Division of Conservation and Resources 
Enforcement (“DOCARE”):  Resolution of Charge  2020- 03    
 
The Commission resolved a Charge  involving a DOCARE Officer who admitted to 
(1) assisting his private employer for pay in obtaining a marine/o cean event permit from DLNR  
and (2) taking official state action affecting his private employer . The Officer used his state 
position and resources to assist in his private work ( as an ocean risk management and marine 
reconnaissance vehicles trainer ).  The DOCARE officer admitted to violating the  Conflicts of 
Interests law , which prohibits state employees from (1) bein g paid to assist or represent another 
person or business in transactions or  proposals before their own state agency and (2)  taking 
official action affecting  a business in which they have a substantial financial interest, such as 
outside private  employment.  The respondent also admitted to violating the Fair Treatment law, 
which prohibits state employees from using state resources for private business purposes.  The 
respondent agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $10,000 and the matter was r eferred to 
DLNR -DOCARE for further action as appropriate. 
 
 
Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs (“DCCA”), Insurance Division :  Resolution of 
Charge 2020- 05  
The Commission resolved a Charge regarding a DCCA employee’s violation of the Gifts Law, 
HRS § 84- 11, and the Gifts Reporting law, HRS § 84- 11.5, related to gifts of  hundreds of 
dollars of  meals from a state vendor.  As part of his duties as Chief Examiner, the respondent  
oversaw the vendor’s contract with DCCA, and wa s responsible for negotiating the rate paid to 
the vendor and monitoring the performance of the vendor’s work.  The Gifts law prohibits state 
employees from soliciting or accepting any gift “under circumstances in which it can reasonably be inferred that the gift is intended to influence the . . .employee . . . or is intended as a reward for any official action[.]”  The respondent, who had retired from the State of Hawai‘i prior to the resolution of this Charge, agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $5,000.  
 
Department of Transportation (“DOT”), Highways Division, O‘ahu Distri ct:  
Resolution of 
Investigation  2020- 07 and 2020- 08     
 
The Commission resolved a case involving a DOT employee’s use of state -owned equipment  
for personal purposes .  The employee admitted to  using a DOT truck and trailer to transport a 
DOT Bobcat skid- steer from a nearby job site t o his personal residence.  The Bobcat was then 
used to clear rocks, mud,  and debris from the employee’s  personal property.  T he employee’s 
supervisor, a Superintendent for the DOT Highways Division, admitted to authorizing the 
employee  to transport the Bobcat to the employee’s personal residence, store the Bobcat 
outside of work hours, and utilize the Bobcat for personal use.  The employee and the supervisor agreed to pay administrative penalties of $1,500 and $1,000, resp ectively.
  
 
 
      
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587- 0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  7 
Financial  & Gifts  Disclosures  
The Commission administers the filing requirements of the financial disclosure  law and the 
gifts disclosure law, which help provide accountability and transparency in government.  
 
In 2020, the Commission received  1,859 financial disclosure statements , including 181 
disclosure statements for candidates of state elective office.  P ublic disclosure statements (for elected 
officials, department directors, and other designated state officials)  are available on the Commission’s 
public data website .  
 
The Commission received and 
published 188 gifts disclosure statements , all of 
which are available on the Commission’s public data website
.  
  
 
Lobbyists Law: Registration & 
Expenditure Reports  
The Commission administers HRS 
chapter 97, the Lobbyists Law, which requires 
lobbyists to register with the Commission and file periodic expenditure reports.  In 2019, t he 
Commission launched its new electronic filing system for lobbying registration and r eporting, 
allowing lobbyists to register and file their periodic expenditure reports electronically.  The Commission is continually upgrading and improving the e -filing system for lobbying, 
financial disclosures, and gifts disclosures; the Commission launc hed a series of 
enhancements in December 2020 to make it easier for filers to complete their forms.  
 In 2020, the Commission r eceived and published 1,018 lobbyist registration statements from 
486 lobbyists , representing 435 organizations , along with 1,207 lobbyist expenditure reports.  Each of 
these figures represent s a year -over-year increase when compared to 2019  (950 registration statements, 
438 lobbyists, 415 organizations, and 1,009 lobbyist expenditure reports) .
  
  
 
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587- 0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  8 
Administrative Rules  
 
After a three -year process of research,  drafting, and deliberation, t he Commission considered 
and promulgated a comprehensive package of administrative rules pursuant to HRS chapter 91.  The 
Commission held a public hearing on May 7, 2020 to gather testimony from all interested persons and discuss the potential  implications  of the proposed changes.  The rules were signed by Governor Ige in 
November 2020 and took effect on November 28, 2020. 
 The new rules provide updated procedures for the issuance of advisory opinions, investigations, 
and contested case hearings.  The rules  also clarify many of the ethics and lobbyists laws administered 
by the Commission, and address topics such as gifts, fair treatment, conflicts of interests, and post -
employment restrictions .  The updated rules are available on the Commission’s website  at 
https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp- content/uploads/2019/07/TITLE21.pdf
 
  
Anti -Fraud Initiative  
The Commission  partnered with the Department of the Attorney General to launch a n anti -
fraud hotline aimed at identifying fraud, waste, and abuse of government funds.  The agencies developed a  website and  online complaint form  (antifraud.hawaii.gov),  dedicated phone hotline  (587 -
0000) , and dedicated email address ( antifraud@hawaii.gov ) where individuals  can confidentially 
report suspected violations.  These anti -fraud resources were created  to complement the  state’s efforts 
to use CARES Act funds responsibly and empower the public with  confidential, easy- to-use methods 
to report potential violations. 
 Within the first four months of establishing  these anti -fraud resources (September to December 
2020), the Com mission fielded 41 anti -fraud complaints , including 19 complaints submitted using the 
online complaint form.  These 41 complaints were in addition to the 129 complaints received by the Commission through the Commission’s normal complaint channels.  Many of the anti -fraud 
complaints were referred to the relevant administrative agencies for action, and several of those cases resulted in action (policy changes and/or disciplinary action) by the agencies themselves.  
 
Judicial Candidate Reviews  
The Commission provides information to the Judicial Selection Commission on applicants for 
judicial office.  In 2020, the Ha wai‘i  State Ethics Commission provided information on approximately 
87 applicants (including current judges seeking retention).  
 
 
 
      
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587- 0460 • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  9 
Legislation  
 
In 2020, the Commission successfully advocated for the passage of  Act 39 (House Bill 2125) , 
which r equires financial disclosure filers to report the names of clients they assist or represent for pay 
before state agencies and updates the law to provide for electronic filing of disclosures.  The 
Legislature also passed House Bill  2124  without a single “no” vote; the bill would have strengthened 
Hawaii’s post -employment laws  by prohibiting high- level state officials from lobbying the Legislature 
for one year after leaving state service, but the bill was vetoed by the Governor for its possible effects on recruitment for volunteer boards and commissions.  The Commission intends to support a revised version of this measure in 2021 that would exclude volunteer members of boards and commissi ons but 
retain the strong post -employment restrictions for high- level government employees.   
 
Commissioners and Staff  
 
The Commission is comp rised of  five members nominated by the State Judicial Council and 
appointed by the Governor for four -year terms.  The current members of  the Commission are Ruth 
Tschumy (Chairperson), Melinda Wood (Vice Chairperson) , Reynard Graulty, and Wesley Fong.  
There is currently a vacancy on the Commission.  Former member Susan DeGuzman completed her 
second term on June 30, 2020. 
 As of February 2021, t he Commiss ion employs  a staff  of ten: Executive Director Daniel Gluck, 
Associate Director Susan Yoza, four staff attorneys  (Nancy Neuffer, Virginia Chock, Bonita Chang, 
and Kee Campbell) ; Computer  Specialist  Patrick Lui; Office Manager Caroline Choi; Secretary 
Lynnette Santiago; and Investigator Jason Kamisugi.  The Commission has a vacancy for an administrative position that will remain unfilled because of the COVID -19 budget crisis .  As the 
COVID- 19 crisis unfolded at the end of the 2019 -2020 fiscal year, the Commission cut its expenses 
and returned $50,177.44, or approximately 4.2% of the budget (1,202,065) to the General Fund.  The Commission expects to return funds to the General Fund at the end of the  current fiscal year as well.

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/2019HSECAnnualReport.pdf) ---
1 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
1001 Bishop St. #970  
Honolulu, HI 96813  
(808) 587 -0460 
ethics@hawaiiethics.org   
www.ethics.hawaii.gov   
@HawaiiEthics     HAWAI‘I STATE  
ETHICS COMMISSION  
2019 Annual Report  
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587 -0460  • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  2 
Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission  
Mission  & Duties  
 
Established in 1968, the Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission – the first state ethics commission 
in the United States – represents a commitment by the people of Hawai‘i to the principles that 
“public officers and employees must exhibit the highest standards of  ethical conduct[,] and 
that these standards come from the personal integrity of each individual in government.”  
Hawai‘i Constitution, article XIV.  The constitution further requires that the State, and each of 
its subdivisions, establish a code of ethics  for public officers and employees.  
 
Pursuant to this constitutional mandate, t he Commission is responsible for the administration 
and enforcement of the State Ethics Code and the State Lobbyists Law, chapters 84 and 97, 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes (“HRS”), r espectively.  The Ethics Code includes laws relating to the 
acceptance and reporting of gifts, confidential information, fair treatment (the prohibited 
misuse of official position), conflicts of interests, state contracts, and post -employment 
restrictions , along with a requirement that state legislators, candidates for state elective office , 
and certain state employees file financial disclosure statements .   
 
For purposes of the State Ethics Code, the Commission has jurisdiction over more than 
50,000 state officials and employees.  This includes state legislators and other elected state 
officials, employees of the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government (except 
for judges and justices), and members of all state boards and commissions.  Th e State Ethics 
Code’s financial disclosure law also applies to all candidates for state elective office.   
 
The Commission also administers the State Lobbyists Law, HRS chapter 97 , which applies to 
lobbying activities at the state level.  The Lobbyists Law  requires lobbyists to register with the 
Commission and requires lobbyists and organizations that lobby to report lobbying 
expenditures and contributions on forms filed with the Commission.  T he Commission has 
jurisdiction over more than 400 lobbyists repr esenting over 300 organizations that lobby the 
state legislature or executive branch.  
 
  
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587 -0460  • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  3 
Ethics Advice  
 
 The Commission issues advisory opinions and other types of guidance about the 
appli cation of the State Ethics Code and the State Lobbyists Law .  In 2019, the Commission’s 
attorneys received and responded to 1,389 requests for  advice  from state legislators, state 
employees, lobbyists, and members of the public, including 215 requests for advice on 
whether state officials could accept a particular gi ft of travel (where travel is paid for by a non -
state entity).  The Commission considers its ability to provide timely and meaningful  guidance 
and advice to be one of its most essential functions.   
 
In 2019, the Commission issued seven formal Advisory Opi nions, all of which are 
available on its website at https://ethics.hawaii.gov/all -opinions/  and on Westlaw, a legal 
research platfor m: 
 
1. Advisory Opinion 2019 -1, advising that a member of a state board may not 
represent the board in collective bargaining negotiations with a public -sector union 
when the state board member’s spo use is a member of the public -sector union.  
 
2. Advisory Opinion 2019 -2, advising that the Ethics Code does not necessarily 
prohibit a state agency from soliciting donations from the private s ector, and 
providing a series of guidelines to ensure that any solicitations are not coercive and 
do not provide anyone with an unwarranted benefit.  
 
3. Advisory Opinion 2019 -3, advising that the Ethics Code does not prohibit a 
legislator, in the legislator’s private capacity, from representing a private client in an 
attempted purchase of state property from a state agency.   
 
4. Advis ory Opinion 2019 -4, advising that an employee could not take action on 
matters involving a company when the employee’s spouse works for that company.   
 
5. Advisory Opinion 2019 -5, advising that a  former employee was not prohibited from 
representing a private client in a lawsuit against the employee’s former agency, so 
long as the legal representation does not involve the use or disclosure of 
confidential information acquired during state employmen t. 
 
6. Advisory Opinion 2019 -6, advising that an agency is not prohibited from awarding a 
contract to a company whose employee is on the agency’s board, where, under the 
specific facts present ed to the Commission, the employee was unaware that the 
company was seeking a contract with the agency, and cautioning against potential 
conflicts of interest and abuse of position.  
 
7. Adviso ry Opinion 2019 -7, advising that an employee may accept a complimentary 
registration fee to a vendor’s conference, but advising that the employee may not 
attend a Vendor -sponsored reception for government employees . 
       
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587 -0460  • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  4 
Ethics Education  
 
The Commission is charged with educating state officials and employees about ethics 
in government , HRS § 84 -31(a)(7) .  To fulfill this mandate, the Commission conducts ethics 
training se ssions throughout the year.  The Commission has been expanding its educational 
efforts to reach as many state officials as possible.  In 2019, the Commission offered forty-
seven  training sessions for 2,131  individuals, including one session offering Continu ing Legal 
Education (“CLE”) credits for government attorneys.  The Commission also conducted 
mandatory ethics training sessions for all newly elected state officials as required by  
HRS §  84-42.  The Commission b elieves that it is critical  to provide ethic s training for state 
employees to improve their general awareness of ethics and to prevent unknowing violations 
of the Sta te ethics laws.  In fa ct, for many employees, the ethics training is their first e xposure 
to the State Ethics Code.  
 
In 2020, the Commission is launching an on -line training to be available to all state 
employees.  This 30 -minute, interactive session can be accessed from any device with an 
internet connection, and the Commission hopes that this will help to ensure greate r ethics  
awareness by  the more than 50,000 employees and board/commission members who serve 
the people of Hawai‘i.  Anyone can take the training (and receive a certificate of completion 
for doing so) , and view an introductory “Guide to the State Ethics Cod e,” at  
https://ethics.hawaii.gov/ethicsonlinetraining/ .  
 
The Commission also continues to explore new ways to ensure that state officials are 
aware of the Ethics Code’s requirements .  To tha t end, in 2019, the Commission developed 
and distributed three new “Quick Guides” to the Ethics Code on the following topics:  
 
- Holiday Season Ethics Guide  
- Second Jobs and Other Private Business Activities   
- Ethics Reminders for E mployees at State Base Yards and Repair Shops   
 
The Commission has seven of these short educational flyers on its website at 
https://ethics.hawaii.gov/quickguides/ .  
 
 The Commission also published fou r issues of “The High Road ” newsletter , available 
at https://ethics.hawaii.gov/category/guidance/publications/highroad/ .  
 
 
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587 -0460  • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  5 
Enforcement  
The Commission enforce s the State 
Ethics Code, HRS chapter 84, and the 
State Lobbyists Law, HRS chapter 97. The 
Commission receives and reviews 
complaints and conducts investigations on 
a confidential basis concerning alleged 
violations of the law.  When appropriate, 
the Commiss ion initiates formal charges 
against individuals who appear to have 
violated the law. If there is probable cause 
to believe that a violation of the law has 
occurred, the Commission may hold a 
contested case hearing in accordance with 
HRS Chapter 91, Hawaii ’s Administrative 
Procedure Act .   
 
In 2019, the Commission received 
65 new complaints of violations of the 
Ethics Code and Lobbyists Law. The Commission issued thirty -two Resolutions authorizing 
staff to conduct investigations, issued two Charges, and closed 7 5 cases. The Commission 
publicly resolved nine Charges and investi gations (including those below)  by issuing a 
Resolution of Investigation/Charge document or Decision & Order ; resolved another twenty -
six matters by issuing ethics guidance; resolved two cases involving late filing of financial 
disclosure statements ; and c losed thirty -eight  other matters (for lack of jurisdiction, lack of 
supporting evidence, or another reason) . The Commission assessed a total of $48,156.53 in 
administrative penalties , payable to the General Fund. Notable enforcement actions include : 
 
Offic e of Hawaiian Affairs (“OHA”) Trustee Rowena Akana:   Decision 2019 -1 and Resolution 
of Charge 2019 -2 
 
The Commission issued its Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Decision and 
Order involving former OHA Trustee Akana ( Decision 2019 -1), concluding that Akana 
committed forty -seven violations of the Ethics Code , including violations of the Gifts 
law (HRS §  84-11), Gifts Reporting law  (HRS §  84-11.5), and Fair Treatment law   
(HRS §  84-13). The Commission imposed an administrative penalty of $23,106.53 and 
referred the matter to the Attorney General to recover prohibited gifts, improperly 
received by Akana, valued at $21,513.15 . Akana appealed . The Circuit Court affirmed 
the Commission’s Decision in full  in September 201 9, and Akana appealed to the 
Intermediate Court of Appeals. The Commission also resolved a second Charge 
against Akana arising out of Akana’s disclosure of confidential information from two 
Executive Session me etings of OHA’s Board of Trustees ( Reso lution  of Charge 2019 -
2); Akana agreed to pay an administrative penalty  of $1,500 . 
  
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587 -0460  • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  6 
Department of Land and Natural Resources (“DLNR”), Division of Boa ting and Ocean 
Recreation (“DOBOR”), Hawai‘i Island:   Resolution of Investigation 2019 -5    
 
The Commission resolved a case involving a DOBOR Harbor Agent who took official 
action affecting his personal boat (by inspecting his own boat) and who used state time 
and other resources to attend to his personal boat.  The Conflicts of Interests law,  
HRS § 84-14(a), prohibits state employees from taking official action directly affecting 
their own substantial financial interests; the Fair Treatment law, HRS §  84-13, prohibits 
state employees from using their official positions to provide themselves or others with 
unwarranted benefits.  
 
Department of Education (“DOE”), Facilities Maintenance Branch:   Resolution of 
Investigations 2019 -1, 2019 -3, and 2019 -4   
The Commission resolved cases involving three DOE supervisory employees from the 
Facilities Maintenance Branch, all of whom hired subordinate employees for outside 
projects (such as construction work); some of the supervisors also accepted free labor 
from subordinate employees.  The Fair Treatment law,  HRS §  84-13(a)(4), prohibits 
supervisors from engaging in substantial financial transactions f rom subordinates; the 
Gifts law (HRS §  84-11) and the Fair Treatment law (HRS §  84-13) also generally 
prohibits supervisors from receiving free labor for personal projects from subordinate 
employees.  The supervisors agreed to pay administrative penalties of $11,000, 
$3,500, and $750, respectively.   
 
Department of Land and Natural Resources (“DLNR”), Division of Boating and Ocean 
Recreation (“DOBOR”), Kaua‘i:   Resolution of Charge 2019 -1     
 
The Commission resolved a Charge against Bruce Kelekoma, a DOBOR -Kauai official, 
after having resolved cases involving three other  employees  from DOBOR -Kauai in 
2018.  Kelekoma admitted to receiving $2,753.89 in automobile parts and repair 
services , knowing that those parts and services were purchased and paid for using 
state funds; to using a state pCard to purchase automobile parts for his personal 
vehicle; to using state time, personnel, and equipment to transport diesel fuel to his 
family’s pasture land and thereafter pouring the fuel on fence posts as a preservative, 
rather than disposing of it as hazardous waste; to directing subordinate employees to 
cut and deliver kiawe wood to him for his personal use; and to taking official action as a 
DOBOR -Kauai employee affecting his private employer.  Kelekoma also admitted t hat 
he signed Certificates of Disposal (i ndicati ng he disposed of state property ) without 
actually disposing of the property, and that he repeatedly gave incorrect statements to 
Ethics Commission investigators while under oath.  Kelekoma agreed to pay an 
administrative penalty of $4,500, and the matter was re ferred to DLNR .   
       
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587 -0460  • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  7 
Financial  & Gifts  Disclosures  
The Commission administers the filing requirements of the financial disclosure  law and 
the gifts disclosure law, which help provide accountability and transparency in government.  
 
In 2019, the Commission received  1,788  financial disclosure statements ; public 
disclosure statements (for elected officials, department directors, and other designated state 
officials)  are available at  https://ethics.hawaii.gov/2019financial/ .  
 
The Commission received and published 236 gifts disclosure statements , all of which 
are available at  https://ethics.hawaii.gov/2019gifts/ .  
 
 
Lobbyists Law: Re gistration & Expenditure Reports  
The Commission administers HRS chapter 97, the Lobbyists Law, which requires 
lobbyists to register with the Commission and file periodic expenditure reports.  The 
Commission launched its new electronic filing system for lobbying registration and reporting, 
allowing lobbyists to register and file their periodic expenditure reports electronically.  The 
Commission is continually upgrading and improving both the lobbying e -filing system and the 
system for filing financial dis closure statements and gifts disclosure statements (launched in 
2018).  
 
In 2019, the Commission 
received and published 950 lobbyist 
registration statements from 438 
lobbyists , representing 415 
organizations , along with 1,009  
lobbyist expenditure reports.   
 
 
Ethics Conference  
In September 2019, Hawaii’s 
state  and county ethics officials met 
together  for the first time in Honolulu 
for a one -day conference on 
government ethics.  Conference 
participants included  members and 
staff of the Hawai ‘i State  Ethics 
Commission, the Honolulu  Ethics 
Commission, and the Ethics  Boards 
for the Counties of Hawai ‘i, Kaua ‘i, 
and Maui.  Participants exchanged information about the practical details of administering a 
code of ethics , including training tools, provid ing ethics advice, and enforcing the law.   
     
ethics@hawaiiethics.org  • (808) 587 -0460  • www.ethics.hawaii.gov  8 
Judicial Candidate Reviews  
The Commission provides information to the Judicial Selection Commission on 
applicants for judicial office.  In 2019, the Hawai‘i  State Ethics Commission provided 
information on approximately 108 applicants (including current judges seeking retention).  
 
Legislation  
 
In 2019, the Commission s uccessfully advocated for the passage of three ethics -
related bills:  
 
- Act 109 (SB144) : Updates the Lobbyists Law to provide that anyone who 
negligently fails to register as a lobbyist (or file an expenditure report) may be fined 
by the Commission.  
 
- Act 119 (HB170) : Clarifies the fair treatment and conflict of interest laws with 
respect to legislators and task force members.  
 
- Act 120 (HB169) : Clarifies provisions of the Ethics Code relating to gifts disclosure 
statements, financial disclosure statements, and ethics training.  
 
Commissioners and Staff  
 
The Commission has five members who are nominated by the State Judicial Council 
and appointed by the Governor for four -year terms.  The current members of  the Commission 
are Reynard Graulty (Chairperson), Ruth Tschumy (Vice Chairperson), Susan DeGuzman, 
Melinda Wood, and Wesley Fong.  
 
The Commiss ion currently  employs  a staff of eleven:  Executive Director Daniel Gluck, 
Associate Director Susan Yoza, four staff attorneys  (Nancy Neuffer, Virginia Chock, Bonita 
Chang, and Kee Campbell) ; Computer  Specialist  Patrick Lui; Office Manager Caroline Choi; 
Secretary/Paralegal Napua Yasuda ; Secretary Lynnette Santiago; and Investigator Jason 
Kamisugi.  
 
 
 
 
For quick, confidential ethics advice, or to lodge a confidential complaint,  
please contact the Commission at ethics@hawaiiethics.org  or 587 -0460.

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/Chapter84.pdf) ---
CHAPTER 84 
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT  
Section  
Preamble 
Part I.   General Provisions  
84-1  Construction  
84-2  Applicability  
84-3  Definitions  
Part V.     M andatory Ethics Training84-10   University  of Hawaii; technology  transfer activities;  exemption  
84-11   Gifts
84-11.5  Reporting of gifts
84-12
84-13Confidential information
Fair treatment 
84-13.2 Nepotism; prohibition
84-13.5  Washington Place; campaign activities
84-14 Conflicts of interests 
84-14.5  Governor; outside employment and emoluments prohibited
84-15
84-16
84-17Contracts  
Contracts voidable
Requirements  of disclosure  
84-17.5  Disclosure files; disposition
84-18
84-19Restrictions on post e mployment 
Violation 
Part III.   State Ethics Commission  
84-21  State et hics commission established; composition 
Part IV.   Administration and Enforcement 
84-31  Duties of commission; complaint, hearing, determination  
84-31.3  Filing of false charges
84-31.5  Repealed
84-32
84-33
84-34
84-35Procedure  
Disciplinary  action for  violation  
No compensation  
Staff 
84-35.5  Prohibition from political activity
84-36
84-37
84-38
84-39Cooperation  
Concurrent jurisdiction  
Judicial  branch 
Administrative fines  
84-41  Repealed  
84-42  Mandatory ethics training course 
84-43  Ethics training courses; live and online  
Part II.   Code of E thics 2 CHAPTER 84  
S
TANDARDS OF CONDUCT  
P
reamble  
The purpose of this chapter is to (1) prescribe a code of ethics for elected officers 
and public employees of the State as mandated by the people of the State of Hawaii in 
the Hawaii constitution, article XIV; (2) educate the citizenry with respect to ethi cs in 
government; and (3) establish an ethics commission which will administer the codes of ethics adopted by the constitutional convention and by the legislature and render advisory opinions and enforce the provisions of this law so that public confidence  in 
public servants will be preserved. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1979, c 91, §2; am L 1981, c 82, §10]  
P
art I.  General Provisions  
§84-1  Construction.   This chapter shall be liberally construed to promote high
standards of ethical conduct in state government. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1]  
§84-2  Applicability.   This chapter shall apply to every nominated, appointed, or
elected officer, employee, and candidate to elected office of the State and for election to the constitutional convention, but excluding justices and judges; provided that in the case of elected delegates and employees of the constitutional convention, this chapter shall apply only to the enforcement and administration of the code of ethics adopted by the constitutional convention. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1979, c 91, §3]  
§84-3  Definitions.
“Business ” includes a corporation, a partnership, a sole proprietorship, a trust or
foundation, or  any other individual or organization carrying on a business, whether or 
not operated for profit.  
“Compensation” means any money, thing of value, or economic benefit conferred 
on or received by any person in return for services rendered or to be rendered by oneself or another.  
“Controlling interest ” means an interest in a business or other undertaking which 
is sufficient in fact to control, whether the interest be greater or less than fifty per cent.  
“Employee” means any nominated, appointed, or elected officer or employee of 
the State, including members of boards, commissions, and committees, and employees under contract to the State or of the constitutional convention, but excluding legislators, delegates to the constitutional convention, justices and judges. 
“Employment ” means any rendering of services for compensation.  3 
 “Financial interest ” means an interest held by an individual, the individual ’s 
spouse, or dependent children which is:  
(1) An ownership interest in a business.  
(2) A creditor interest in an insolvent business.  
(3) An employment, or prospective employment for which negotiations have 
begun.  
(4) An ownership interest in real or personal property.  
(5) A loan or other debtor interest.  
(6) A directorship or officership in a business.  
“Official act ” or “official action ” means a decision, recommendation, approval, 
disapproval, or other action, including inaction, which involves the use of discretionary authority.  
“Official authority ” includes administrative or legislative powers of deci sion, 
recommendation, approval, disapproval, or other discretionary action.  
“State agency ” includes the State, the legislature and its committees, all 
executive departments, boards, commissions, committees, bureaus, offices, the University of Hawaii, and a ll independent commissions and other establishments of the 
state government but excluding the courts.  
 “Task force ” means a group convened by resolution, statute, executive order, 
proclamation, or by invitation of the legislature, governor, or another stat e officer, to 
study a specific subject or issue, for a specific defined period of time, and to report to, offer a recommendation to, or advise the legislature, governor, or a state officer. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1978, c 245, §1; am L 1979, c 91, §4; gen ch 1985; am L 
2012, c 208, §2 ] 
 
Part II.  Code o f Ethics  
§84-10  University of Hawaii; technology transfer activities; exemption.  
[Section repealed June 30, 2024.  L Sp 2021, c 8, §8.]   (a)  Sections 84- 12, 84- 13, 84-
14 to 84- 16, and 84- 18 shall not apply to technology transfer activities sponsored by the 
University of Hawaii; provided that the technology transfer activities comply with the regulatory framework and research compliance pr ogram and policies approved by the 
board of regents of the University of Hawaii.  
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the University of Hawaii shall not sponsor, 
enter into, or continue to engage in technology transfer activities with a private person in which an employee of the University of Hawaii has a conflict of interest as provided in 
section 84- 14, including a financial interest, irrespective of whether the State benefits 
from the technology transfer activities; provided that the prohibition under thi s 
subsection shall not apply if:  
(1)  The technology transfer activities with the private person promote the timely and efficient commercialization of intellectual property created by basic and applied research at the University of Hawaii;  4 
 (2)  The State s tands to benefit from the technology transfer activities with the 
private person;  
(3)   The technology transfer activities with the private person comply with the 
regulatory framework and research compliance program and policies approved by the board of regents of the University of Hawaii;  
(4)   The employee’ s conflict of interest is disclose d at the time of the proposal, 
and the proposals and binding agreements for each of the technology transfer activities with the private person are reviewed by the state ethics commission to assure compliance with ethics laws;  
(5)   Any changes to the terms  and conditions of the technology transfer 
activities are reported to the state ethics commission;  
(6)   The employee with the conflict of interest does not:  
(A)   Take official action affecting the technology transfer activities with the private person; or  
(B)   Directly or indirectly supervise an employee when that employee takes official action affecting the technology transfer activities with the private person; and  
(7)   During the term of the technology transfer activities with the private person, the following employees file annually with the state ethics 
commission a disclosure of financial interests pursuant to section 84 -17: 
(A)   Employees who have a conflict of interest as provided in section 84-14, including a financial interest, in the private person;  
(B)   Employees who take official action affecting the technology transfer activities with the private person; and  
(C)   Employees who directly or indirectly supervise an employee who 
takes official action affecting the technology transfer activiti es with 
the private person.  
 (c)   Notwithstanding subsection (a), any technology transfer activities 
sponsored by, entered into, or engaged in by the University of Hawaii in violation of subsection (b) is voidable under section 84- 16; provided that this subsection shall not 
apply to contracts for technology transfer activities entered into or extended by the University of Hawaii prior to January 1, 2022.  
(d)   The University of Hawaii shall file annually with the state ethics 
commission a disclosure,  including its conflict of interest management plan, of any 
conflict of interest of any employee relating to its technology transfer activities.  
(e)   As used in this section:  
“Person”  means any individual, firm, association, organization, sole 
proprietors hip, partnership, company, corporation, joint venture, trust, or any other form 
of business or legal entity or group of individuals.  
“Technology transfer activities ” means the process of transferring scientific 
findings from the public sector to the privat e sector for the purpose of commercial 
development and application for personal or financial gain.  “ Technology transfer 
activities ” may include creating joint ventures, limited partnerships, or other corporate 
forms; allocating equity shares, partnership interests, or other forms of participation; 5 
 identifying new technologies; protecting technologies through patents and copyrights; 
forming development and commercialization strategies, arrangements, or projects; and other related activities. [L 2017, c 38, §§2, 5; am L Sp 2021, c 8, §6]  
§84-11  Gifts.   No legislator or employee shall solicit, accept, or receive, directly 
or indirectly, any gift, whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise, or in any other form, under circumstances in which it can reasonably be inferred that the gift is intended to influence the legislator or employee in the performance of the legislator ’s or employee’ s official duties or is intended as a 
reward for any official action on the legislator ’s or employee’ s part. [L 1972, c 163, pt of 
§1; gen ch 1985]  
§84-11.5  Reporting of gifts.   (a)  Every legislator and employee shall file a gifts 
disclosure statement with the state ethics commission no later than June 30 of each 
year if all  the following conditions are met:  
(1)   The legislator or employee, or spouse or dependent child of a legislator or 
employee, received directly or indirectly from one source any gift or gifts valued singly or in the aggregate in excess of $200, whether the gift is in the form of money, service, goods, or in any other form;  
(2)   The source of the gift or gifts have interests that may be affected by official action or lack of action by the legislator or employee; and  
(3)   The gift is not exempted by subsection (d) from reporting requirements under this subsection.  
(b)   The report shall cover the period from June 1 of the preceding calendar 
year through May 31 of the year of the report.  
(c)   The gifts disclosure statement shall contain the following information:  
(1)   A description of the gift;  
(2)   A good faith estimate of the value of the gift;  
(3)   The date the gift was received; and  
(4)   The name of the person, business entity, or organization from whom, or on behalf of whom, the gift was received.  
(d)   Excluded from the reporting requirem ents of this section are the following:  
(1)   Gifts received by will or intestate succession;  
(2)   Gifts received by way of distribution of any inter vivos or testamentary trust 
established by a spouse or ancestor;  
(3)   Gifts from a spouse, fiance, fianc ee, any relative within four degrees of 
consanguinity or the spouse, fiance, or fiancee of such a relative.  A gift 
from any such person is a reportable gift if the person is acting as an agent or intermediary for any person not covered by this paragraph;  
(4)   Political campaign contributions that comply with state law;  
(5)   Anything available to or distributed to the public generally without regard to the official status of the recipient;  
(6)   Gifts that, within thirty days after receipt, are returned to the giver or delivered to a public body or to a bona fide educational or charitable 6 
 organization without the donation being claimed as a charitable 
contribution for tax purposes; and  
(7)   Excha nges of approximately equal value on holidays, birthday, or special 
occasions.  
(e)   Failure of a legislator or employee to file a gifts disclosure statement as 
required by this section shall be a violation of this chapter.  
(f)   This section shall not aff ect the applicability of section 84- 11. 
(g)   For purposes of this section, “ legislator or employee”  includes any 
individual who was a legislator or employee for any portion of the period from June 1 of the preceding calendar year through May 31 of the year of the report. [L 1992, c 322, pt of §1; am L 2019, c 120, §2]  
§84-12  Confidential information.   No legislator or employee shall disclose 
information which by law or practice is not available to the public and which the legislator or employee acquires in the course of the legislator ’s or employee’ s official 
duties, or use the information for the legis lator’s or employee’ s personal gain or for the 
benefit of anyone; provided that this section shall not preclude a person who serves as the designee or representative of an entity that is a member of a task force from disclosing information to the entity which the person acquires as the entity ’s designee or 
representative. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; gen ch 1985; am L 2012, c 208, §3]  
§84-13  Fair treatment.   (a)  No legislator or employee shall use or attempt to 
use the legislator ’s or employee’ s official pos ition to secure or grant unwarranted 
privileges, exemptions, advantages, contracts, or treatment, for oneself or others; including but not limited to the following:  
(1)   Seeking other employment or contract for services for oneself by the use or attempted use of the legislator ’s or employee’ s office or position;  
(2)   Accepting, receiving, or soliciting compensation or other consideration for the performance of the legislator ’s or employee’ s official duties or 
responsibilities except as provided by law;  
(3)   Using state time, equipment or other facilities for private business purposes; or  
(4)   Soliciting, selling, or otherwise engaging in a substantial financial transaction with a subordinate or a person or business whom the legislator or employee inspect s or supervises in the legislator ’s or employee’ s official 
capacity.  
(b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a legislator from 
introducing bills and resolutions, from serving on a committee, or from making statements or taking official  action as a legislator.  Every legislator shall publicly disclose 
the nature and extent of the interest or transaction that the legislator believes may be affected by the legislator ’s official action in accordance with section 84- 17 and the rules 
of each house of the legislature.  
 
 7 
 (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent a person from:  
(1)   Serving on a task force; or  
(2)   Making statements or taking official action as a task force member or a 
task force member ’s designee or repr esentative;  
provided that every task force member or designee or representative of a task force member shall publicly disclose the nature and extent of any interest or transaction that the task force member or task force member ’s designee or representative believes may 
be affected by the task force member ’s official action.  
(d) The state ethics commission shall adopt rules pursuant to chapter 91 to 
effectuate the purposes of this section, except that each house of the legislature shall adopt rules regarding the disclosure of the nature and extent of any interest or 
transaction that the legislator believes may be affected by the legislator ’s official action.  
Rules adopted by the state ethics commission shall apply only until such time that each house of the legislature adopts its own rules.  Upon the passage of rules pursuant to this section by either house of the legislature, the rules adopted by the state ethics commission shall be preempted by the rules of each respective house of the legislature. [L 1972,  c 163, pt of §1; gen ch 1985; am L 2012, c 208, §4; am L 2019, c 119, §2; am L 
2020, c 29, §1]  
§84-13.2  Nepotism; prohibition.   (a)  No employee shall:  
(1)   Appoint, hire, promote, or retain a relative or household member to, or demote, discharge, or terminate a relative or household member from; or  
(2)   Participate in an interview or discussion regarding the appointment, hiring, promotion, or retention of a relative or household member to, or the demotion, discharge, or termination of a relative or household member 
from,  
a paid position in the employee’ s employing agency; provided that this subsection shall 
not prohibit an employee from performing ministerial acts that may impact the relative or household member if those acts are a part of the normal job functions of the employee.  
(b)   No employee shall supervise a relative or household member unless the 
employee:  
(1)   Has a physical impairment requiring the employment of a particular relative or household member; provided that the employee discloses the 
prospective employment to the state ethics commission before the appointment or hire is made; or  
(2)   Disqualifies oneself from taking any official action directly affecting the relative or household member.  
(c)   No employee shall award a contract to or otherwise take official action on 
a contract with a business if the employee knows or reasonably should know that the employee’ s relative or household member is an executive officer of or holds a 
substantial ownership interest in that business.  
(d)   Notwithstanding the prohibitions in this section, if an employee who is a 
supervisor or executive director is unable to waive or disengage from completing their official duties or from taking official action and is legally required to tak e action that 
directly impacts a relative or household member receiving an award or other official 8 
 action on a contract described in subsection (c), the employee shall not be in violation of 
this section if the employee:  
(1)   Has complied with the disclos ure requirements of section 84- 17; and 
(2)   Posts a notice of intent to award the contract and files a copy of the notice 
with the state ethics commission at least five days before awarding the 
contract.  If the posting and filing of the award in advance is otherwise 
prohibited by law, notice shall be posted and filed as soon as practicable.  Every notice of intent shall describe the employee’ s relationship with the 
relative or household member, the relative or household member ’s 
relationship with the enti ty receiving the contract, action taken and to be 
taken affecting the relative or household member ’s business, and the 
dollar value of the contract.  
(e)   Upon application, the state ethics commission may grant an exception to 
an employee or agency that is  unable to comply with this section for good cause, 
including a demonstrated lack of qualified personnel or applicants.  
(f)   Any employee who knowingly violates this section shall be subject to the 
administrative fines set forth in section 84- 39.  Any fav orable action obtained by a 
relative or household member of an employee in violation of this section shall be voidable in accordance with sections 84- 16 and 84- 19. 
(g)   This section shall not affect the applicability of section 84- 13 or 84- 14. 
(h)   This section shall not prohibit a state agency from appointing, hiring, 
promoting, retaining, demoting, discharging, or terminating a relative or household member of an employee employed by the agency.  
(i)   Notwithstanding sections 84- 2 and 84 -3, this section shall not apply to 
employees or agencies of the legislative or judicial branch of the State.  
(j)   For purposes of this section:  
“Household member ” means an individual who resides in the same dwelling unit 
as the employee.  
“Relative ” means the employee’ s parent, grandparent, stepparent, child, 
grandchild, stepchild, foster child, adopted child, sibling, half -sibling, stepsibling, 
parent ’s sibling, first cousin, sibling ’s child, spouse, spouse’ s parent, child- in-law, or 
sibling -in-law, or any individual who has become a member of the employee’ s 
immediate family through the Hawaiian hanai custom. [L 2023, c 261, §1]  
§84-13.5  Washington Place; campaign activities.   The governor shall not 
allow Washington Place to be used for any events intended to solicit funds, support, or votes for any candidate for elective public office. [L 2002, c 46, §1]  
 
 9 
 §84-14  Conflicts of interests.   (a)  No employee shall take any official action 
directly affecting:  
(1)   A business or other undertaking in which the employee has a substantial 
financial interest; or  
(2)   A private undertaking in which the employee is engaged as legal counsel, adviso r, consultant, representative, or other agency capacity.  
A department head who is unable to disqualify the department head’ s self on any 
matter described in paragraphs (1) and (2) will not be in violation of this subsection if the department head has compl ied with the disclosure requirements of section 84- 17. 
A person whose position on a board, commission, or committee is mandated by 
statute, resolution, or executive order to have particular qualifications shall only be prohibited from taking official actio n that directly and specifically affects a business or 
undertaking in which the person has a substantial financial interest; provided that the substantial financial interest is related to the member's particular qualifications.  
(b)   No employee shall acquire financial interests in any business or other 
undertaking which the employee has reason to believe may be directly involved in official action to be taken by the employee.  
(c)   No legislator or employee shall assist any person or business or act in a 
representative capacity before any state or county agency for a contingent 
compensation in any transaction involving the State.  
(d)   No legislator or employee shall assist any person or business or act in a 
representative capacity for a fee or other compensation to secure passage of a bill or to obtain a contract, claim, or other transaction or proposal in which the legislator or 
employee has participated or will participate as a legislator or employee, nor shall the legislator or employee assist any person or business or act in a representative capacity 
for a fee or other compensation on such bill, contract, claim, or other transaction or proposal before the legislature or agency of which the legislator or employee is an employee or legislator.  
(e)   No employee shall assist any person or business or act in a representative 
capacity before a state or county agency for a fee or other consideration on any bill, contract, claim, or other transaction or proposal involving official action by the agency if the employee has official authority over that state or county agency unless the employee has complied with the disclosure requirements of section 84- 17. 
(f)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent a person from:  
(1)   Serving on a task force; or  
(2)   Making statements or taking official action as a task force member or a task force member ’s designee or representative;  
provided that every task force member or designee or representative of a task force member shall publicly disclose the nature and extent of any interest or transaction that the task force member or task force member ’s designee or representative believes may 
be affected by the task force member ’s official action.  The state ethics commission 
shall adopt rules pursuant to chapter 91 to effectuate the purposes of this subsection. [L 10 
 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1978, c 245, §2; am L 2012, c 208, §5; am L 2019, c 119, 
§3] 
§84-14.5  Governor; outside employment and emoluments prohibited.   (a)  
Beginning November 1, 2022, as of the sixty -first calendar day after election or 
appointment to office, it shall be unlawful for the governor, while holding that office, to maintain any other employment, maintain a controlling interest in a business, or receive any emolument.  
(b)   Where a governor has  a controlling interest in a business, in order to 
comply with this section, the governor may transfer the interest to a blind trust within sixty- one days of election or appointment.  
(c)   As used in this section:  
“Blind trust ” means a trust agreement wher e neither the trustor nor the 
beneficiaries have any control or influence over, or knowledge of, the assets in the trust, and which complies with the definition of “ qualified blind trust ” in the Ethics in 
Government Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. App. 4 section 101 et seq., as amended.  
“Emolument ” means any salary, fee, payment, wage, earning, allowance, stipend, 
honorarium, or reward; provided that “ emolument ” does not include the salary or 
benefits for service as the governor or any pension income; retirement income; social security payment; non- controlling ownership of stocks, mutual funds, or real estate; 
rental income; or other form of passive income. [L 2020, c 75, §3]  
§84-15  Contracts.   (a)  A state agency shall not enter into any contract to 
procure or dispose of goods or services, or for construction, with a legislator, an employee, or a business in which a legislator or an employee has a controlling interest, involving services or property of a value in excess of $10,000 unless:  
(1)   The contract is awarded by competitive sealed bidding pursuant to section 103D -302; 
(2)   The contract is awarded by competitive sealed proposal pursuant to section 103D -303; or  
(3)   The agency posts a notice of its intent to award the contract and files a 
copy of the notice with the state ethics commission at least ten days 
before the contract is awarded.  
(b)   A state agency shall not enter into a contract with any perso n or business 
which is represented or assisted personally in the matter by a person who has been an 
employee of the agency within the preceding two years and who participated while in state office or employment in the matter with which the contract is directly concerned.  This subsection shall not apply to any contract that is awarded in accordance with subsection (a) with a person or business represented or assisted by a person who was a member of a task force or served as the designee or representative of  a task force 
member. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1978, c 245, §3; gen ch 1985; am L 1989, c 226, §1; am L 1995, c 178, §2; am L 2012, c 208, §6]  
 11 
 §84-16  Contracts voidable.   In addition to any other penalty provided by law, 
any contract entered into by the State in violation of this chapter is voidable on behalf of 
the State; provided that in any action to avoid a contract pursuant to this section the interests of third part ies who may be damaged thereby shall be taken into account, and 
the action to void the transaction is initiated within sixty days after the determination of a violation under this chapter.  The attorney general shall have the authority to enforce this prov ision. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1]  
§84-17  Requirements of disclosure.  [Section effective until December 31, 
2024.  For section effective January 1, 2025, see below.]   (a)  For the purposes of this 
section, “disclosure period”  refers to the period from January 1 of the preceding 
calendar year to the time of the filing of the employee’ s or legislator ’s disclosure of 
financial interests.  
(b)   The disclosure of financial interests required by this section shall be filed:  
(1)   By any person enumerated in subsection (c), except a member of the legislature, between January 1 and May 31 of each year;  
(2)   By a member of the legislature between January 1 and January 31 of each year;  
(3)   Within thirty days of a person’ s election or appointment to a state position 
enumerated in subsection (c); or  
(4)   Within thirty days of separation from a state position if a prior financial disclosure statement for the position was not filed within the one hundred eighty days preceding the date of separation;   
provided t hat candidates for state elective offices or the constitutional convention shall 
file the required statements no later than ten days after the nomination filing deadline 
established pursuant to section 12- 6. 
(c)   The following persons shall file annually with the state ethics commission 
a disclosure of financial interests:  
(1)   The governor, lieutenant governor, members of the legislature, and delegates to the constitutional convention; provided that delegates to the constitutional convention shall only be required to file initial disclosures;  
(2)   The directors and their deputies, the division chiefs, the executive directors and the executive secretaries and their deputies, the purchasing agents, and the fiscal officers, regardless of the titles by which  the 
foregoing persons are designated, of every state agency and department;  
(3)   The permanent employees of the legislature and its service agencies, other than persons employed in clerical, secretarial, or similar positions;  
(4)   The administrative dir ector of the State, and the assistants in the office of 
the governor and lieutenant governor, other than persons employed in clerical, secretarial, or similar positions;  
(5)   The hearings officers of every state agency and department;  
(6)   The president,  vice presidents, assistant vice presidents, chancellors, and 
provosts of the University of Hawaii and its community colleges;  
(7)   The superintendent, deputy superintendent, assistant superintendents, complex area superintendents, state librarian, and deputy state librarian of the department of education;  12 
 (8)   The administrative director and deputy director of the courts;  
(9)   The members of every state board or commission whose original terms of 
office are for periods exceeding one year and whose funct ions are not 
solely advisory;  
(10)   Candidates for state elective offices, including candidates for election to the constitutional convention; provided that candidates shall only be required to file initial disclosures;  
(11)   The administrator and assist ant administrator of the office of Hawaiian 
affairs;  
(12)   The Hawaii unmanned aerial systems test site chief operating officer; and  
(13)   The members of the school facilities board appointed by the governor.  
(d)   The financial disclosure statements of the following persons shall be 
public records and available for inspection and duplication:  
(1)   The governor, lieutenant governor, members of the legislature, candidates 
for and delegates to the constitutional convention, trustees of the of fice of 
Hawaiian affairs, and candidates for state elective offices;  
(2)   The directors of the state departments and their deputies, regardless of 
the titles by which the foregoing persons are designated; provided that 
with respect to the department of the attorney general, the foregoing shall apply only to the attorney general and the first deputy attorney general;  
(3)   The administrative director of the State;  
(4)   The president, vice presidents, assistant vice presidents, chancellors, members of the board of regents, and provosts of the University of Hawaii;  
(5)   The members of the board of education, superintendent, deputy 
superintendent, state librarian, and deputy state librarian of the department of education;  
(6)   The administrative director and deputy director of the courts;  
(7)   The administrator and assistant administrator of the office of Hawaiian affairs; and  
(8)   The members of the following state boards, commissions, and agencies:  
(A)   The board of directors of the agribusiness developm ent corporation 
established under section 163D -3; 
(B)   The board of agriculture established under section 26- 16; 
(C)   The state ethics commission established under section 84- 21; 
(D)   The Hawaii community development authority established under 
section 206E -3; 
(E)   The Hawaiian homes commission established under the Hawaiian 
Homes Commission Act of 1920, as amended, and section 26- 17; 
(F)   The board of directors of the Hawaii housing finance and 
development corporation established under section 201H -3; 
(G)   The board of land and natural resources established under section 
171-4; 
(H)   The state land use commission established under section 205- 1; 
(I)   The legacy land conservation commission established under 
section 173A -2.4; 
(J)   The natural area reserves system commission established under 
section 195- 6; 13 
 (K)   The board of directors of the natural energy laboratory of Hawaii 
authority established under section 227D -2; 
(L)   The board of directors of the Hawaii public housing authority establi shed under section 356D -3; 
(M)   The public utilities commission established under section 269- 2; 
(N)   The commission on water resource management established under section 174C -7; and 
(O)   The stadium authority established under section 109- 1. 
(e)   The information on the financial disclosure statements shall be 
confidential, except as provided in subsection (d).  The commission shall not release the contents of the disclosures except as may be permitted pursuant to this chapter.  The unauthoriz ed release of any confidential financial disclosure statement information shall 
be a violation of this chapter.  
(f)   Candidates for state elective offices, including candidates for election to 
the constitutional convention, shall only be required to discl ose their own financial 
interests.  The disclosures of financial interests of all other persons designated in subsection (c) shall state, in addition to the financial interests of the person disclosing, the financial interests of the person’ s spouse and dependent children.  All disclosures 
shall include:  
(1)   The source and amount of all income of $1,000 or more received, for services rendered, by the person in the person’ s own name or by any 
other person for the person’ s use or benefit during the precedin g calendar 
year and the nature of the services rendered; provided that required disclosure under this paragraph for the income source of the spouse or 
dependent child of a person subject to subsection (d) shall be limited to the name of the business or oth er qualifying source of income, and need 
not include the income source’ s address; provided further that other 
information that may be privileged by law or individual items of compensation that constitute a portion of the gross income of the business or pro fession from which the person derives income need not be 
disclosed;  
(2)   The amount and identity of every ownership or beneficial interest held during the disclosure period in any business having a value of $5,000 or more or equal to ten per cent of the ownership of the business and, if the interest was transferred during the disclosure period, the date of the transfer; provided that an interest in the form of an account in a federal or state regulated financial institution, an interest in the form of a policy in a mutual insurance company, or individual items in a mutual fund or a blind trust, if the mutual fund or blind trust has been disclosed pursuant to this paragraph, need not be disclosed;  
(3)   Every officership, directorship, trusteeship, or other fiduciary relationship held in a business during the disclosure period, the term of office and the annual compensation;  
(4)   The name of each creditor to whom the value of $3,000 or more was owed during the disclosure period and the original amount and am ount 14 
 outstanding; provided that debts arising out of retail installment 
transactions for the purchase of consumer goods need not be disclosed;  
(5)   The street address and, if available, the tax map key number, and the value of any real property in which t he person holds an interest whose 
value is $10,000 or more, and, if the interest was transferred or obtained during the disclosure period, a statement of the amount and nature of the consideration received or paid in exchange for such interest, and the name of the person furnishing or receiving the consideration; provided that 
disclosure shall not be required of the street address and tax map key number of the person’ s residence;  
(6)   The names of clients assisted or represented before state agencies, exce pt in ministerial matters, for a fee or compensation during the 
disclosure period and the names of the state agencies involved; and  
(7)   The amount and identity of every creditor interest in an insolvent business held during the disclosure period having a value of $5,000 or more.  
(g)   Where an amount is required to be reported, the person disclosing may 
indicate whether the amount is at least $1,000 but less than $10,000; at least $10,000 
but less than $25,000; at least $25,000 but less than $50,000; at l east $50,000 but less 
than $100,000; at least $100,000 but less than $150,000; at least $150,000 but less 
than $250,000; at least $250,000 but less than $500,000; at least $500,000 but less than $750,000; at least $750,000 but less than $1,000,000; or $1,0 00,000 or more.  An 
amount of stock may be reported by number of shares.  
(h)   The state ethics commission shall provide a method for filing financial 
disclosure statements.  The commission may require that financial disclosure statements be filed electronically.  
(i)   Failure of a legislator, a delegate to the constitutional convention, or an 
employee to file a disclosure of financial interests as required by this section shall be a violation of this chapter.  Any legislator, delegate to a constitutional c onvention, or 
employee who fails to file a disclosure of financial interests when due may be assessed an administrative fine of $50.  The state ethics commission, upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing, may post on its website for public inspec tion a list of all persons 
who have failed to file financial disclosure statements.  The state ethics commission shall notify a person, by in- person service, electronic mail to the person’ s state 
electronic mail address, or first -class mail, of the failure to file, and, if applicable, the 
administrative fine.  If a disclosure of financial interests has not been filed within thirty days after the original deadline, in addition to any initial administrative fine that may have been assessed, an administrative fine of $250 may be assessed.  
(j)   The chief election officer, upon receipt of the nomination paper of any 
person seeking a state elective office, including the office of delegate to the constitutional convention, shall notify the state ethics commission of the name of the candidate for state office and the date on which the person filed the nomination paper.  Any candidate who fails to file a disclosure of financial interests when due may be assessed an administrative fine of $50.  The state ethics commis sion, upon the 
expiration of the time allowed for filing, may post on its website for public inspection a list of all candidates who have failed to file financial disclosure statements.  The state 15 
 ethics commission shall notify a candidate, by in- person service, electronic mail to the 
candidate’ s electronic mail address listed with the office of elections, or first -class mail, 
of the failure to file and, if applicable, the administrative fine.  If a disclosure of financial 
interests has not been filed withi n thirty days after the original deadline, in addition to 
any initial administrative fine that may have been assessed, an administrative fine of $250 may be assessed.  
(k)   If notice and order of an administrative fine has been issued pursuant to 
this sect ion, the order shall become final on the twentieth day after it is served upon the 
alleged violator, unless the alleged violator submits a written request for a hearing before the state ethics commission on or before the twentieth day.  After conducting a hearing pursuant to chapter 91, the state ethics commission may affirm, modify, or rescind the order as appropriate.  The state ethics commission may file with the circuit court of the first circuit any order the commission has issued pursuant to this sect ion for 
the purpose of confirming the order as a final judgment that shall have the same force and effect and shall be enforceable and collectable as other judgments issued by the circuit courts; provided that there shall be no appeal from the judgment.  
(l)   All administrative fines collected under this section shall be deposited into 
the general fund.  Any administrative fine for the late filing of a disclosure of financial interests shall be in addition to any other action the state ethics commission m ay take 
pursuant to this chapter.  The state ethics commission may waive any administrative fines authorized pursuant to this section for good cause shown.  
(m)   The state ethics commission may investigate, initiate, or receive charges 
on whether a candidate ’s financial disclosure statement discloses the financial interests 
required to be disclosed.  After proceeding in conformance with section 84- 31, the state 
ethics commission may issue a decision on whether a candidate has complied with subsection (f).  This decision shall be a matter of public record. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; 
am L 1978, c 245, §4; am L 1979, c 91, §6; am L 1980, c 87, §§1, 2; am L 1985, c 152, §1; gen ch 1985; am L 1989, c 113, §§1, 2; am L 1991, c 150, §1; am L 1993, c 26, §1; am L 1995, c 49, §1 and c 230, §1; am L 1997, c 50, §1; am L 2000, c 297, §18; am L 2003, c 187, §4; am L 2005, c 135, §1; am L 2006, c 207, §2; am L 2007, c 9, §4; am L 2011, c 5, §10; am L 2013, c 125, §1; am L 2014, c 230, §2; am L 2015, c 208, §3; am L 2017, c  52, §1; am L 2020, c 39, §1 and c 72, §3; am L 2021, c 146, §15; am L 2023, c 
129, §2]  
§84-17  Requirements of disclosure.  [Section effective January 1, 2025.  For 
section effective until December 31, 2024, see above.]   (a)  For the purposes of this 
section, “disclosure period”  refers to the period from January 1 of the preceding 
calendar year to the time of the filing of the employee’ s or legislator ’s disclosure of 
financial interests.  
(b)   The disclosure of financial  interests required by this section shall be filed:  
(1)   By any person enumerated in subsection (c), except a member of the 
legislature, between January 1 and May 31 of each year;  
(2)   By a member of the legislature between January 1 and January 31 of 
each year;  16 
 (3)   Within thirty days of a person’ s election or appointment to a state position 
enumerated in subsection (c); or  
(4)   Within thirty days of separation from a state position if a prior financial 
disclosure statement for the position was not fil ed within the one hundred 
eighty days preceding the date of separation;  
provided that candidates for state elective offices or the constitutional convention shall file the required statements no later than ten days after the nomination filing deadline established pursuant to section 12- 6. 
(c)   The following persons shall file annually with the state ethics commission 
a disclosure of financial interests:  
(1)   The governor, lieutenant governor, members of the legislature, and delegates to the constitutional  convention; provided that delegates to the 
constitutional convention shall only be required to file initial disclosures;  
(2)   The directors and their deputies, the division chiefs, the executive 
directors and the executive secretaries and their deputies,  the purchasing 
agents, and the fiscal officers, regardless of the titles by which the 
foregoing persons are designated, of every state agency and department;  
(3)   The permanent employees of the legislature and its service agencies, other than persons employed in clerical, secretarial, or similar positions;  
(4)   The administrative director of the State, and the assistants in the office of the governor and lieutenant governor, other than persons employed in clerical, secretarial, or similar positions;  
(5)   The hearings officers of every state agency and department;  
(6)   The president, vice presidents, assistant vice presidents, chancellors, and 
provosts of the University of Hawaii and its community colleges;  
(7)   The superintendent, deputy superintendent , assistant superintendents, 
complex area superintendents,  state librarian, and deputy state librarian of the department of education;  
(8)   The administrative director and deputy director of the courts;  
(9)   The members of every state board or commission whose original terms of office are for periods exceeding one year and whose functions are not solely advisory;  
(10)   Candidates for state elective offices, including candidates for election to the constitutional convention; provided that candidates shal l only be 
required to file initial disclosures;  
(11)   The administrator and assistant administrator of the office of Hawaiian affairs;  
(12)   The Hawaii unmanned aerial systems test site chief operating officer; and  
(13)   The members of the school facilities board appointed by the governor.  
(d)   The financial disclosure statements of the following persons shall be 
public records and available for inspection and duplication:  
(1)   The governor, lieutenant governor, members of the legislature, candidates for and delegates to the constitutional convention, trustees of the office of Hawaiian affairs, and candidates for state elective offices;  
(2)   The directors of the state departments and their deputies, regardless of the titles by which the foregoing persons are designated; provided that 17 
 with respect to the department of the attorney general, the foregoing shall 
apply only to the attorney general and the first deputy attorney general;  
(3)   The administrative director of the State;  
(4)   The president , vice presidents, assistant vice presidents, chancellors, 
members of the board of regents, and provosts of the University of Hawaii;  
(5)   The members of the board of education, superintendent, deputy superintendent, state librarian, and deputy state libr arian of the 
department of education;  
(6)   The administrative director and deputy director of the courts;  
(7)   The administrator and assistant administrator of the office of Hawaiian affairs; and  
(8)   The members of the following state boards, commissions, and agencies:  
(A)   The board of directors of the agribusiness development corporation established under section 163D -3; 
(B)   The board of agriculture established under section 26- 16; 
(C)   The state ethics commission established under section 84- 21; 
(D)   The Hawaii community development authority established under section 206E -3; 
(E)   The Hawaiian homes commission established under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920, as amended, and section 26- 17; 
(F)   The board of directors of the Hawaii housing finance and development corporation established under section 201H -3; 
(G)   The board of land and natural resources established under section 171-4; 
(H)  The state land use commission established under section 205- 1; 
(I)   The legacy land conservation commission established under section 173A -2.4; 
(J)   The natural area reserves system commission established under section 195- 6; 
(K)   The board of directors of the natural energy laboratory of Hawaii authority established under section 227D -2; 
(L)   The board of directors of the Hawaii public housing authority established under section 356D -3; 
(M)   The public utilities commission established under section 269- 2; 
(N)   The commission on water resource management established under section 174C -7; and 
(O)   The stadium authority established under section 109- 1. 
(e)   The information on the financial dis closure statements shall be 
confidential, except as provided in subsection (d).  The commission shall not release the contents of the disclosures except as may be permitted pursuant to this chapter.  The unauthorized release of any confidential financial disclosure statement information shall be a violation of this chapter.  
(f)   Candidates for state elective offices, including candidates for election to 
the constitutional convention, shall only be required to disclose their own financial interests.  The di sclosures of financial interests of all other persons designated in 
subsection (c) shall state, in addition to the financial interests of the person disclosing, 18 
 the financial interests of the person’ s spouse and dependent children.  All disclosures 
shall include:  
(1)   The source and amount of all income of $1,000 or more received, for 
services rendered, by the person in the person’ s own name or by any 
other person for the person’ s use or benefit during the preceding calendar 
year and the nature of the serv ices rendered; provided that required 
disclosure under this paragraph for the income source of the spouse or dependent child of a person subject to subsection (d) shall be limited to the name of the business or other qualifying source of income, and need not include the income source’ s address; provided further that other 
information that may be privileged by law or individual items of compensation that constitute a portion of the gross income of the business or profession from which the person derives income need not be disclosed;  
(2)   The amount and identity of every ownership or beneficial interest held during the disclosure period in any business having a value of $5,000 or more or equal to ten per cent of the ownership of the business and, if the interest was transferred during the disclosure period, the date of the 
transfer; provided that an interest in the form of an account in a federal or state regulated financial institution, an interest in the form of a policy in a mutual insurance company, or individual items in a mutual fund or a blind trust, if the mutual fund or blind trust has been disclosed pursuant to this paragraph, need not be disclosed;  
(3)   Every officership, directorship, trusteeship, or other fiduciary relationship held in a business during the disclosure period, the term of office and the 
annual compensation;  
(4)   The name of each creditor to whom the value of $3,000 or more was owed during the disclosure period and the original amount and amount outstanding; provided that debts aris ing out of retail installment 
transactions for the purchase of consumer goods need not be disclosed;  
(5)   The street address and, if available, the tax map key number, and the value of any real property in which the person holds an interest whose value is  $10,000 or more, and, if the interest was transferred or obtained 
during the disclosure period, a statement of the amount and nature of the consideration received or paid in exchange for such interest, and the 
name of the person furnishing or receiving th e consideration; provided that 
disclosure shall not be required of the street address and tax map key 
number of the person’ s residence;  
(6)   The names of clients assisted or represented before state agencies, except in ministerial matters, for a fee or compensation during the 
disclosure period and the names of the state agencies involved; and  
(7)   The amount and identity of every creditor interest in an insolvent business 
held during the disclosure period having a value of $5,000 or more.  
 19 
 (g)   In additi on to the disclosures required under subsection (f), each member 
of the legislature shall also disclose the name of any person that is subject to section 
97-3 and that is:  
(1)   A business partner of the member;  
(2)   An employer of the member;  
(3)   An officer or director of the member ’s employer; or  
(4)   A client of the member, member ’s partner, or member ’s employer, who is 
on the lobbyist list and not just a client with a lobbyist, where the client provided at least $5,000 of income during the precedi ng calendar year.  
As used in this subsection:  
“Member ” means a member of the legislature.  
“Member ’s partner ” means a member ’s spouse under chapter 572, civil union 
partner under chapter 572B, or reciprocal beneficiary under chapter 572C.  
(h)   Where an amount is required to be reported, the person disclosing may 
indicate whether the amount is at least $1,000 but less than $10,000; at least $10,000 but less than $25,000; at least $25,000 but less than $50,000; at least $50,000 but less than $100,000; at l east $100,000 but less than $150,000; at least $150,000 but less 
than $250,000; at least $250,000 but less than $500,000; at least $500,000 but less than $750,000; at least $750,000 but less than $1,000,000; or $1,000,000 or more.  An amount of stock may b e reported by number of shares.  
(i)   The state ethics commission shall provide a method for filing financial 
disclosure statements.  The commission may require that financial disclosure statements be filed electronically.  
(j)   Failure of a legislator, a delegate to the constitutional convention, or an 
employee to file a disclosure of financial interests as required by this section shall be a violation of this chapter.  Any legislator, delegate to a constitutional convention, or employee who fails to file a disclosure of financial interests when due may be assessed an administrative fine of $50.  The state ethics commission, upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing, may post on its website for public inspection a list of all persons who have failed to file financial disclosure statements.  The state ethics commission shall notify a person, by in- person service, electronic mail to the person’ s state 
electronic mail address, or first -class mail, of the failure to file, and, if applicable, the 
adminis trative fine.  If a disclosure of financial interests has not been filed within thirty 
days after the original deadline, in addition to any initial administrative fine that may have been assessed, an administrative fine of $250 may be assessed.  
(k)   The c hief election officer, upon receipt of the nomination paper of any 
person seeking a state elective office, including the office of delegate to the constitutional convention, shall notify the state ethics commission of the name of the candidate for state of fice and the date on which the person filed the nomination paper.  
Any candidate who fails to file a disclosure of financial interests when due may be assessed an administrative fine of $50.  The state ethics commission, upon the expiration of the time all owed for filing, may post on its website for public inspection a 
list of all candidates who have failed to file financial disclosure statements.  The state 20 
 ethics commission shall notify a candidate, by in- person service, electronic mail to the 
candidate’ s electronic mail address listed with the office of elections, or first -class mail, 
of the failure to file and, if applicable, the administrative fine.  If a disclosure of financial 
interests has not been filed within thirty days after the original deadline, in addition to any initial administrative fine that may have been assessed, an administrative fine of $250 may be assessed.  
(l)   If notice and order of an administrative fine has been issued pursuant to 
this section, the order shall become final on the twentieth day after it is served upon the alleged violator, unless the alleged violator submits a written request for a hearing before the state ethics commission on or before the twentieth day.  After conducting a hearing pursuant to chapter 91, the state ethics commission may affirm, modify, or 
rescind the order as appropriate.  The state ethics commission may file with the circuit court of the first circuit any order the commission has issued pursuant to this section for the purpose of confirming the order as a final judgment that shall have the same force and effect and shall be enforceable and collectable as other judgments issued by the circuit courts; provided that there shall be no appeal from the judgment.  
(m)   All administrative fines collected un der this section shall be deposited into 
the general fund.  Any administrative fine for the late filing of a disclosure of financial interests shall be in addition to any other action the state ethics commission may take pursuant to this chapter.  The stat e ethics commission may waive any administrative 
fines authorized pursuant to this section for good cause shown.  
(n)   The state ethics commission may investigate, initiate, or receive charges 
on whether a candidate’ s financial disclosure statement disclos es the financial interests 
required to be disclosed.  After proceeding in conformance with section 84- 31, the state 
ethics commission may issue a decision on whether a candidate has complied with subsection (f).  This decision shall be a matter of public r ecord. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; 
am L 1978, c 245, §4; am L 1979, c 91, §6; am L 1980, c 87, §§1, 2; am L 1985, c 152, §1; gen ch 1985; am L 1989, c 113, §§1, 2; am L 1991, c 150, §1; am L 1993, c 26, §1; am L 1995, c 49, §1 and c 230, §1; am L 1997, c 50,  §1; am L 2000, c 297, §18; am L 
2003, c 187, §4; am L 2005, c 135, §1; am L 2006, c 207, §2; am L 2007, c 9, §4; am L 2011, c 5, §10; am L 2013, c 125, §1; am L 2014, c 230, §2; am L 2015, c 208, §3; am L 2017, c 52, §1; am L 2020, c 39, §1 and c 72, §3; am L 2021, c 146, §15; am L 2023, c 
123, §1 and c 129, §2]  
§84-17.5  Disclosure files; disposition.   (a)  All financial disclosure statements 
filed by a legislator, employee, or delegate to a constitutional convention shall be maintained by the state ethic s commission for a period of six years from the date of the 
financial disclosure statement ’s filing.  Upon the expiration of the six -year period, the 
financial disclosure statement and all copies thereof may be destroyed.  
(b)   Upon the expiration of six y ears after an election for which a candidate for 
state elective office or a constitutional convention has filed a financial disclosure statement, the state ethics commission may destroy the candidate’ s financial disclosure 
statement and all copies thereof.  21 
 (c)   Financial disclosure statements provided for in section 84- 17(d) shall 
cease to be public records once the six -year period in subsection (a) or (b) has run.  
(d)   Nothing herein shall bar the state ethics commission from retaining a 
financial disclo sure statement or copy of a financial disclosure statement that has 
become part of a charge case or advisory opinion request, or is part of an ongoing 
investigation. [L 1989, c 219, §1; am L 1993, c 27, §1; am L 1997, c 49, §1; am L 2019, c 120, §3; am L 2023, c 9, §2]  
Note  
  The 2023 amendment applies to all disclosures that were filed before March 31, 2023, and that 
are in the state ethics commission ’s possession and control.  L 2023, c 9, §4.  
§84-18  Restrictions on post employment.   (a)  No former legislator or 
employee s hall disclose any information that by law or practice is not available to the 
public and that the former legislator or employee acquired in the course of the former legislator ’s or employee’ s official duties or use the information for the former legislator ’s 
or employee’ s personal gain or the benefit of anyone.  
(b)   No former legislator, within twelve months after termination of the former 
legislator ’s employment, shall represent any person or business for a fee or other 
consideration on:  
(1)   Matters in which the former legislator participated as a legislator;  
(2)   Matters involving official action by the legislature; or  
(3)   Any administrative action, as defined in section 97- 1. 
(c)   No former employee, within twelve months after termination of the former 
employee’ s employment, shall represent any person or business for a fee or other 
consideration, on matters in which the former employee participated as an employee or on matters involving official action by the particular state agency or subdivision thereof with which the former employee had actually served.  This section shall not apply to a former task force member who, but for service as a task force member, would not be considered an employee.  
(d)   This section shall not prohibit any agency from contracting with a former 
legislator or employee to act on a matter on behalf of the State within the period of limitations stated herein, and shall not prevent that legislator or employee from appearing before any agency in relation to that empl oyment.  
(e)   Subject to the restrictions imposed in subsections (a) through (d), the 
following individuals shall not represent any person or business for a fee or other consideration regarding any legislative action or administrative action, as defined in section 97- 1, for twelve months after termination from their respective positions:  
(1)   The governor;  
(2)   The lieutenant governor;  
(3)   The administrative director of the State;  
(4)   The attorney general;  
(5)   The comptroller;  
(6)   The chairperson of the board of agriculture;  
(7)   The director of corrections and rehabilitation;  22 
 (8)   The director of finance;  
(9)   The director of business, economic development, and tourism;  
(10)   The director of commerce and consumer affairs;  
(11)   The adjutant general;  
(12)   The superintendent of education;  
(13)   The chairperson of the Hawaiian homes commission;  
(14)   The director of health;  
(15)   The director of human resources development;  
(16)   The director of human services;  
(17)   The director of labor and industrial relations;  
(18)   The chairperson of the board of land and natural resources;  
(19)   The director of law enforcement;  
(20)   The director of taxation;  
(21)   The director of transportation;  
(22)   The president of the U niversity of Hawaii;  
(23)   The executive administrator of the board of regents of the University of 
Hawaii;  
(24)   The administrator of the office of Hawaiian affairs;  
(25)   The chief information officer;  
(26)   The executive director of the agribusiness  development corporation;  
(27)   The executive director of the campaign spending commission;  
(28)   The executive director of the Hawaii community development authority;  
(29)   The executive director of the Hawaii housing finance and development corporatio n; 
(30)   The president and chief executive officer of the Hawaii tourism authority;  
(31)   The executive officer of the public utilities commission;  
(32)   The state auditor;  
(33)   The director of the legislative reference bureau;  
(34)   The ombudsman;  
(35)   The permanent employees of the legislature, other than persons employed in clerical, secretarial, or similar positions;  
(36)   The administrative director of the courts;  
(37)   The executive director of the state ethics commission;  
(38)   The executi ve officer of the state land use commission;  
(39)   The executive director of the natural energy laboratory of Hawaii authority;  
(40)   The executive director of the Hawaii public housing authority; and  
(41)   The first deputy to the chairperson of the com mission on water resource 
management;  
provided that this subsection shall not apply to any person who has held one of the positions listed above only on an interim or acting basis and for a period of less than one hundred eighty -one days.  
(f)   Subsections (b) through (e) shall not apply to any person who is employed 
by the State for a period of less than one hundred and eighty -one days.  
(g)   For the purposes of this section, “ represent ” means to engage in direct 
communication on behalf of any person or business with a legislator, a legislative employee, a particular state agency or subdivision thereof, or their employees. [L 1972, 23 
 c 163, pt of §1; gen ch 1985; am L 1995, c 239, §1; am L 2012, c 208, §7; am L 2021, c 
189, §2; am L 2022, c 278, §2 5] 
§84-19  Violation.   (a)  Any favorable state action obtained in violation of the 
code of ethics for legislators or employees and former employees is voidable in the same manner as voidable contracts as provided for under section 84 -16; and the State 
by the attorney general may pursue all legal and equitable remedies available to it.  
(b)   The State by the attorney general may recover any fee, compensation, 
gift, or profit received by any person as a result of a violation of the code of ethics by a legislator or employee or former legislator or employee.  Action to recover under this subsect ion shall be brought within one year of a determination of such violation.  
(c)   Any violation of this chapter by an employee, candidate for election to and 
elected delegate to the constitutional convention shall be punishable only in accordance with the c ode of ethics adopted by the constitutional convention. [L 1972, c 163, pt of 
§1; am L 1979, c 91, §7; am L 1981, c 82, §11; am L 1989, c 291, §1]  
 
Part III.  State Ethics Commission  
§84-21  State ethics commission established; composition.   (a)  There is 
established within the office of the auditor for administrative purposes only a commission to be known as the state ethics commission.  The commission shall consist of five members appointed by the governor from a panel of ten persons nominated by the judi cial council.  Each member of the commission shall be a citizen of the United 
States and a resident of the State.  Members of the commission shall hold no other 
public office.  
(b)   The chairperson of the commission shall be elected by the majority of the 
members of the commission.  The term of each member of the commission shall be for four years.  No person shall be appointed consecutively to more than two terms as a member of the commission.  A vacancy on the commission shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment, 
except that the judicial council shall nominate for gubernatorial appointment two persons for a vacancy.  
(c)   No member of the commission shall hold office for more than one hundred 
and twenty days after the expiration of the member ’s term.  If the governor fails to 
appoint a person to a vacant office within sixty days after receipt of the list of nominees from the judicial council, council shall select a person from its list of nominees  to fill the 
vacant office, notwithstanding subsection (b) and section 26- 34 to the contrary.  
(d)   The governor may remove or suspend any member of the commission 
upon the filing of a written finding with the commission, and upon service of a copy of 
the written finding on the member to be removed or suspended. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; 
gen ch 1993; am L 1995, c 228, §1]  
 
 24 
 Part IV.  Administration and Enforcement  
§84-31  Duties  of commission; complaint, hearing, determination.   (a)  The 
ethics commission shall have the following powers and duties:  
(1)   It shall prescribe forms for the disclosures required by article XIV of the 
Hawaii constitution  and section 84- 17 and the gifts  disclosure statements 
required by section 84- 11.5 and shall establish orderly procedures for 
implementing the requirements of those provisions;  
(2)   It shall render advisory opinions upon the request of any legislator, employee, or delegate to the constitutional convention, or person formerly holding such office or employment as to whether the facts and circumstances of a particular case constitute or will constitute a violation of the code of ethics.  If no advisory opinion is rendered within thirty days after the request is filed with the commission, it shall be deemed that an advisory opinion was rendered and that the facts and circumstances of that particular case do not constitute a violation of the code of ethics.  The 
opinion rendered or deemed rendered, until amended or revoked, shall be binding on the commission in any subsequent charges concerning the legislator, employee, or delegate to the constitutional convention, or person formerly holding such office or employment, who sought the opinion and acted in reliance on it in good faith, unless material facts were omitted or misstated by such persons in the request for an advisory opinion;  
(3)   It shall initiate, receive, and consider charges concerning alleged violation 
of this chapter, initiate or make investigation, and hold hearings;  
(4)   It may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and take testimony relating 
to matters before the commission and require the production for 
examination of any books or papers relative to any matter under investigation or in question before the commission.  Before the commission shall exercise any of the powers authorized in this section with respect to any inves tigation or hearings it shall by formal resolution, 
supported by a vote of three or more members of the commission, define the nature and scope of its inquiry;  
(5)   It may, from time to time adopt, amend, and repeal any rules, not inconsistent with this c hapter, that in the judgment of the commission 
seem appropriate for the carrying out of this chapter and for the efficient administration thereof, including every matter or thing required to be done or which may be done with the approval or consent or by order or under the direction or supervision of or as prescribed by the commission.  The rules, when adopted as provided in chapter 91, shall have the force and effect of law;  
(6)   It shall have jurisdiction for purposes of investigation and taking appropriate action on alleged violations of this chapter in all proceedings commenced within six years of an alleged violation of this chapter by a legislator or employee or former legislator or employee.  A proceeding shall be deemed commenced by the filing of a charge with the commission or by the signing of a charge by three or more members of the 25 
 commission.  Nothing herein shall bar proceedings against a person who 
by fraud or other device, prevents discovery of a violation of this chapter;  
(7)   It shall distribute its publications without cost to the public and shall initiate and maintain programs with the purpose of educating the citizenry and all legislators, delegates to the consti tutional convention, and employees on 
matters of ethics in government employment; and  
(8)   It shall administer any code of ethics adopted by a state constitutional convention, subject to the procedural requirements of this part and any rules adopted there under.  
(b)   Charges concerning the violation of this chapter shall be in writing, signed 
by the person making the charge under oath, except that any charge initiated by the commission shall be signed by three or more members of the commission.  The commis sion shall notify in writing every person against whom a charge is received and 
afford the person an opportunity to explain the conduct alleged to be in violation of the chapter.  The commission may investigate, after compliance with this section, such charges and render an informal advisory opinion to the alleged violator.  The 
commission shall investigate all charges on a confidential basis, having available all the 
powers herein provided, and proceedings at this stage shall not be public.  If the 
informa l advisory opinion indicates a probable violation, the person charged shall 
request a formal opinion or within a reasonable time comply with the informal advisory opinion.  If the person charged fails to comply with such informal advisory opinion or if a majority of the members of the commission determine that there is probable cause for 
belief that a violation of this chapter might have occurred, a copy of the charge and a further statement of the alleged violation shall be personally served upon the alleged violator.  Service shall be made by personal service upon the alleged violator wherever 
found or by registered or certified mail with request for a return receipt and marked deliver to addressee only.  If after due diligence service cannot be effected s uccessfully 
in accordance with the above, service may be made by publication if so ordered by the circuit court of the circuit wherein the alleged violator last resided.  The state ethics commission shall submit to the circuit court for its consideration i n issuing its order to 
allow service by publication an affidavit setting forth facts based upon the personal knowledge of the affiant concerning the methods, means, and attempts made to locate and effect service by personal service or by registered or cert ified mail in accordance 
with the above.  Service by publication when ordered by the court shall be made by publication once a week for four successive weeks of a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the circuit of the alleged violator ’s last kn own state address.  The 
alleged violator shall have twenty days after service thereof to respond in writing to the charge and statement.  
(c)   If after twenty days following service of the charge and further statement 
of alleged violation in accordance wit h this section, a majority of the members of the 
commission conclude that there is probable cause to believe that a violation of this chapter or of the code of ethics adopted by the constitutional convention has been committed, then the commission shall set a time and place for a hearing, giving notice to the complainant and the alleged violator.  Upon the commission’ s issuance of a 
notice of hearing, the charge and further statement of alleged violation and the alleged violator ’s written response thereto s hall become public records.  The hearing shall be 26 
 held within ninety days of the commission’ s issuance of a notice of hearing.  If the 
hearing is not held within that ninety -day period, the charge and further statement of 
alleged violation shall be dismiss ed; provided that any delay that is at the request of, or 
caused by, the alleged violator shall not be counted against the ninety -day period.  All 
parties shall have an opportunity to:  
(1)   Be heard;  
(2)   Subpoena witnesses and require the production of any books or papers 
relative to the proceedings;  
(3)   Be represented by counsel; and  
(4)   Have the right of cross -examination.  
All hearings shall be in accordance with chapter 91.  All witnesses shall testify under oath and the hearings shall be open to the public.  The commission shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence but the commission’ s findings must be based upon 
competent and substantial evidence.  All testimony and other evidence taken at the hearing shall be recorded.  
(d)   A decision of the commission pertaining to the conduct of any legislator, 
delegate to the constitutional convention, or employee or person formerly holding such office or employment shall be in writing and signed by three or more of the members of the commission.  A decision of the commission rendered after a hearing together with findings and the record of the proceeding shall be a public record.  
(e)   A person who files a frivolous charge with the commission against any 
person covered by this chapter shall be civilly  liable to the person charged for all costs 
incurred in defending the charge, including but not limited to costs and attorneys ’ fees.  
In any case where the commission decides not to issue a complaint in response to a 
charge, the commission shall upon the written request of the person charged make a finding as to whether or not the charge was frivolous.  The person charged may initiate an action in the circuit court for recovery of fees and costs incurred in commission proceedings within one year after the commission renders a decision.  The commission ’s decision shall be binding upon the court for purposes of a finding 
pursuant to section 607- 14.5.  
(f)   The commission shall cause to be published yearly summaries of 
decisions, advisory opinions, and informal advisory opinions.  The commission shall make sufficient deletions in the summaries to prevent disclosing the identity of persons involved in the decisions or opinions where the identity of such persons is not otherwise a matter of public record under this chapter. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1979, c 91, §8; am L 1980, c 87, §§3, 4; am L 1981, c 82, §12; gen ch 1985; am L 1989, c 291, §2; am L 1990, c 220, §1; am L 1992, c 322, §2; am L 1995, c 220, §§2, 3 and c 221, §1; am L 1997, c 51, §1; am L 2019,  c 120, §4]  
§84-31.3  Filing of false charges.   (a)  Any person who knowingly and 
intentionally files a false charge with the commission, or any member of the commission who initiates action against any state official, state employee, or any other person covered by this chapter, knowing such charge to be false, shall be guilty of the crime of perjury and subject to the penalty set forth in section 710- 1060.  27 
 (b)   Whoever is convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of the crime of 
perjury under this section, in addition to any other punishment prescribed by law 
thereof, shall be required by court order to reimburse the person against whom the false charge was filed for all of the person’ s legal expenses and any other expenses incurred 
in relation to the  person’ s defense against the false complaint.  
(c)   If such charge is filed within six months prior to an election in which the 
accused ’s name appears on the ballot, the person filing the false complaint shall pay to 
the accused the amount set out above plus an equal amount to the general fund of the State.  
(d)   This section shall not supersede or preclude any other right or remedy at 
law available to the person falsely accused. [L 1992, c 322, pt of §1 ] 
§84-31.5  REPEALED.  L 1998, c 32, §1.  
§84-32  Procedure.   (a)  With respect to legislators and employees removable 
only by impeachment:  when the ethics commission after due hearings pursuant to section 84- 31(c) determines that there is sufficient cause to file a complaint against a 
legislator or an employee removable only by impeachment, it shall issue a complaint and refer the matter to the appropriate body of the legislature.  The complaint shall contain a statement of the facts alleged to constitute the violation.  The complaint shall be a matter of public record.  The legislature shall take appropriate disciplinary action unless it determines that disciplinary action is not warranted and, within thirty days of the referral of the complaint, shall notify the commission of the action taken.  Days during which the legislature is not in session shall not be included in determining the 
thirty -day period.  Any disciplinary action taken by the legislature, or the fact that no 
disciplinary action is taken, shall be a matter of public record.  
(b) With respec t to employees other than legislators and employees 
removable only by impeachment:  when the commission determines after due hearing pursuant to section 84- 31(c) that there is sufficient cause to file a complaint against an 
employee other than a legislator , or an employee removable only by impeachment, it 
shall issue a complaint and refer the matter to the governor who shall take appropriate disciplinary action unless the governor determines that disciplinary action is not warranted.  The governor shall not ify the commission of the disciplinary action taken or 
the fact that no disciplinary action was taken, within sixty days of the referral of the complaint.  The complaint and any disciplinary action taken, or the fact that no disciplinary action is taken, s hall be a matter of public record.  
(c)   With respect to former employees and former legislators, when the 
commission determines after due hearing pursuant to section 84- 31(c) that there is 
sufficient cause to file a complaint against a former employee or former legislator, it shall issue a complaint and refer the matter to the attorney general who may exercise whatever legal or equitable remedies which may be available to the State.  The complaint shall be a matter of public record.  
(d)   With respect to delegates to the constitutional convention removable only 
by impeachment: when the ethics commission after due hearing pursuant to section 84-28 
 31(c) determines that there is sufficient cause to file a complaint against a delegate to 
the constitutional convention, it shall issue a complaint and refer the matter to the appropriate body of the constitutional convention.  The complaint shall be a matter of public record.  The appropriate body of the constitutional convention shall take appropriate disciplinary ac tion unless it determines that disciplinary action is not 
warranted and, within thirty days of the referral of the complaint, shall notify the commission of the action taken.  Days during which the constitutional convention is not in session shall not be i ncluded in determining the thirty -day period.  Any disciplinary 
action taken by the constitutional convention, or the fact that no disciplinary action is taken, shall be a matter of public record. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1979, c 91, §9; am L 1980, c  87, §5; am L 1995, c 220, §4 and c 221, §2]  
§84-33  Disciplinary action for violation.  In addition to any other powers the 
civil service commission or other authority may have to discipline employees, the civil service commission or authority may reprimand, put on probation, demote, suspend, or discharge an employee found to have violated the code of ethics. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1981, c 82, §13]  
§84-34  No compensation.   The members of the ethics commission shall serve 
without compensation but s hall be allowed their actual and necessary expenses 
incurred in the performance of their duties. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1]  
§84-35  Staff.   The ethics commission may employ and at pleasure remove such 
persons, including an executive director, as it may deem  necessary for the performance 
of its functions.  Effective July 1, 2005, the salary of the executive director shall be the same as the salary of the director of health.  The commission shall fix the 
compensations of its employees within the amounts made available by appropriation therefor.  The employees of the commission shall be exempt from chapter 76. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1982, c 129, §31; am L 1986, c 128, §29; am L 1989, c 329, §19; am L 1990, c 140, §2; am L 1992, c 52, §1; am L 2000, c 253 , §150; am L 2005, c 225, §5]  
§84-35.5  Prohibition from political activity.  The members of the ethics 
commission and its staff shall not take an active part in political management or in political campaigns during the term of office or employment. [L 1979, c 91, §10]  
§84-36  Cooperation.   The ethics commission may request and shall receive 
from every department, division, board, bureau, commission, or other agency of the State cooperation and assistance in the performance of its duties. [L 1972, c 163, pt  of 
§1] 
§84-37  Concurrent jurisdiction.   Notwithstanding any provision contained 
herein, pursuant to article III, section 12 of the constitution of the State of Hawaii each 
house of the legislature may prescribe further rules of conduct covering its members 
and may investigate and discipline a member for any violation of its rules or the code of 
ethics. [L 1972, c 163, pt of §1; am L 1981, c 82, §14]  29 
 §84-38  Judicial branch.   The powers and duties assigned in this part IV to the 
governor shall, with respec t to employees in the judicial branch, be assigned to the chief 
justice of the supreme court. [L 1977, c 159, §15]  
§84-39  Administrative fines.   (a)  Where an administrative fine has not been 
established for a violation of this chapter, any person, including a legislator or employee, 
who violates this chapter shall be subject to an administrative fine imposed by the state ethics commission that shall not exceed $1,000 for each violation.  All fines collected under this section shall be deposited in the general fund.  
(b)   No fine shall be assessed under this section unless:  
(1)   The state ethics commission convenes a hearing in accordance with section 84- 31(c) and chapter 91 and a decision has been rendered by the 
commission; or  
(2)   The state ethics commission and respondent agree to resolve any charge 
of an alleged violation prior to completion of the contested case process and the resolution includes payment of an administrative fine or restitution, or both. [L 2006, c 207, §1; am L 2017, c 50, §1]  
 
Part V.  Mandatory Ethics Training  
§84-41  REPEALED.  L 2022, c 165, §4.  
§84-42  Mandatory ethics training course.   (a)  Legislators, members of the 
board of education, trustees of the office of Hawaiian affairs, the governor, the lieutenant govern or, executive department heads and deputies, and every other person whose 
financial disclosure statement is a public record pursuant to section 84- 17(d) shall 
complete a live ethics training course administered by the state ethics commission within ninety days of taking office and at least once every four years thereafter.  
(b)   All other employees shall complete either a live or an online ethics training 
course developed pursuant to section 84- 43(c) and administered by the state ethics 
commission within ni nety days of becoming an employee and at least once every four 
years thereafter. [L 2004, c 198, pt of §1; am L 2022, c 165, §2]  
§84-43  Ethics training courses; live and online.   (a)  The state ethics 
commission shall establish, design, supervise, and conduct live and online ethics training courses for all persons required to complete training under section 84- 42. 
(b)   The live ethics training course may be conducted in person or via 
videoconference and shall include:  
(1)   Explanations and discussions of the ethics laws, administrative rules, and relevant internal policies;  
(2)   Specific technical and legal requirements;  
(3)   The underlying purposes and principles of ethics laws;  
(4)   Examples of practical application of the laws and principles; and  
(5)   A question- and-answer participatory segment regarding common 
problems and situations.  30 The state ethics commission shall develop the methods and prepare any materials 
neces
sary to implement the live ethics training course.  
(c) The online ethics training course shall include explanations, discussions,
and examples of the practical application of ethics laws and principles as the state ethics commission deems appropriate.  The state ethics commission shall develop the methods and prepare any materials necessary to implement the online ethics training course, which may include previously recorded ethics training courses originally conducted either in person or via videoconference and any other prerecorded material authorized by the state ethics commission.  
(d) The state ethics commission shall:
(1) Design and administer the live ethics training courses;
(2) Designate those of its legal staff who are to conduct the live ethics trainingcourse;
(3) Notify each legislator or employee, either directly or via the employee’semploying agency, that their attendance or participation in an applicableethics training course is mandatory; provided that a legislator ’s or
employee’ s non- receipt of notice shall not be a defense to a charge
concerning a violation of this chapter; and
(4) Design and administer the online ethics training course.
(e) The state ethics commission may repeat the live course as necessary to
accommodate all persons who are required to attend.  
(f) Each state agency shall provide to the state ethics commission in a timely
manner the names and electronic mail addresses of those persons required to take the 
applicable course and shall assist the commission by providing adequate meeting facilities, equipment, and technical support as needed for the ethics training courses. [L 2004, c 198, pt of §1; am L 2019, c 120, §5; am L 2022, c 165, §3]  
[NOTE: The foregoing provisions incorporate the Acts of the 2023 Regular Session. This is the unofficial 
version of the statute for convenience only.  Please refer to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes for the official codified 
version.]
June 2024

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/Chapter97.pdf) ---
CHAPTER 97 
LOBBYISTS  
Sect
ion 
97-1
97-2Definitions 
Registration  of lobbyists, requirements  
97-2.2  Mandatory lobbyist training  
97-2.5  Renewal o f registration
97-3
97-4Contributions and expenditures; statement 
Manner of filing; public  records 
97-4.5  Lobbyist list
97-5 Restricted activities  
97-5.5  Unlawful gifts by lobbyists
97-6 Administration  
97-6.5  Repealed
97-7 Penalties; administrative fines  2 CHAPTER 97  
LOBBYISTS  
§97-1  Definitions.  When used in this chapter:  
“Administrative action”  means the proposal, drafting, consideration, amendment, 
enactment, or defeat by any adm inistrative agency of any rule or other action governed 
by section 91 -3. 
“Administrative agency ” means a commission, board, agency, or other body,  or 
official in the state government that is not a part of the legislative or judicial branch.  
“Contribution”  includes a gift, subscription, forgiveness of a loan, advance, or 
deposit of money, or anything of value and includes a contract, promise, or agre ement, 
whether or not enforceable, to make a contribution.  
“Expenditure”  includes a payment, distribution, forgiveness of a loan, advance, 
deposit, or gift of money, or anything of value and includes a contract, promise, or 
agreement, whether or not enforceable, to make an expenditure.  “ Expenditure”  also 
includes compensation  or other consideration paid to a lobbyist for the performance of 
lobbying services.  “Expenditure”  excludes any amounts expended:  
(1) For intrastate travel costs, including incidental meals and lodging; provided that this exception does not apply to any amoun ts expended for  
the travel costs of state legislators, board and commission members, or 
any other employees of the State; or  
(2) By a nonprofit organization to prepare and submit an application for a grant pursuant to chapter 42F, and for each of the nonprofit  organization’s 
employees to lobby a maximum of ten hours in a month for that application.  
“Legislative action”  means the sponsorship, drafting, introduction, consideration, 
modification, enactment, or defeat of any bill, resolution, amendment, report, nomination, appointment, or any other matter pending or proposed in the legislature.  
“Lobbying”  means communicating directly or through an agent, or soliciting 
others to communicate, with any official in the legislative or executive branch, for the 
purpose of  attempting to influence legislative or administrative action or a ballot issue.   
“Lobbying” shall not include the preparation and submission of a grant application 
pursuant to chapter 42F by a representative of a nonprofit organization.  
“Lobbyist ” means any individual who:  
(1) Receives or expects to receive, either by employment or contract, $1,000 or more in monetary or in- kind compensation in any calendar year for 
engaging in lobbying, either personally or through the lobbyist’s agents; or  
(2) For pay or other c onsideration,  on behalf of another person:  
(A) Engages in lobbying in excess of five hours in any month of any reporting period described in section 97- 3; 
(B) Engages in lobbying in excess of ten hours during any calendar year; or  3 (C) Makes expenditures of $1,000 or more of the person’s or any other 
person’s money lobbying during any reporting period described in 
section 97- 3; 
provided that an employee of a nonprofit organization who spends fewer than ten hours in any month lobbying on a grant application submitted pursuant to chapter 42F is not a 
lobbyist if the employee does not engage in lobbying on matters that are unrelated to 
the grant application.  
“Person”  means a corporation, individual, union, association, firm, sole 
proprietorship, partnership, committee, club, or any other organization or a 
representative of a group of persons acting in concert. [L 1975, c 160, pt of §1; am L 1980, c 129, §1(a); am L 1982, c 105, §1; am L 1989, c 225, §1; am L 1995, c 220, §5; am L 2017, c 51, §2]  
§97-2  Registration of lobbyists, requirements .  (a)  Every lobbyist shall file a 
registration form with the state ethics commission within five days of becoming a lobbyist.  
(b) Each lobbyist shall provide and certify the following:  
(1) The name, mailing address, and business telephone number of the lobbyist ; 
(2) The name and principal place of business of each person by whom the lobbyist is retained or employed or on whose behalf the lobbyist appears or works and a written authorization to act as a lobbyist from each person by whom the lobbyist is employed or with whom the lobbyist contracts ; 
(3) The subject areas on which the lobbyist expects to lobby ; and 
(4) Documentation con firming the lobbyist’s completion of the mandatory 
lobbyist training course pursuant to section 97 -2.2. 
(c) A lobbyist shall report any change in any of the information contained in 
the registration statement within ten days after the change has occurred.  
(d) A lobbyist shall file a notice of termination within ten days after the lobbyist 
ceases the activity that required the lobbyist ’s registration.  If the lobbyist fails to file a 
notice of termination, the person who employed or contracted for the servic es of the 
lobbyist may file the notice.  The lobbyist and the person who employed or contracted 
for the services of the lobbyist shall remain subject, however, to the requirements of this 
chapter for the period during which the registration was effective.  
(e) This chapter shall not apply to:  
(1) Any individual who represents oneself and not any other person before the legislature or administrative agency; provided that the  individual shall file a 
statement of expenditures if the individual meets any of the provisions of section 97- 3(a); 
(2) Any federal, state, or county official or employee acting in the official ’s or 
employee’ s official capacity, unless the federal, state or county official, or 
employee contracts for the services of a lobbyist;  
(3) Any elec ted public official acting in the public official ’s official capacity, 
unless the public official contracts for the services of a lobbyist;  4 (4) Any newspaper or other regularly published periodical or radio or 
television station,  including any individual w ho owns, publishes, or is 
employed by a newspaper or periodical or radio or television station , while 
publishing in the regular course of business news items, editorials, or other comments, or paid advertisements, which directly or indirectly urge the pass age or defeat of legislative or administrative action;  
(5) Any attorney who advises the attorney ’s clients on the construction or 
effect of proposed legislative or administrative action; provided that such attorney shall register if the attorney meets the definition of “lobbyist” as 
defined in section  97-1; and 
(6) Any person who possesses special skills and knowledge relevant to certain areas of legislation, whose skills and knowledge may be helpful to the legislative and executive branches of state government, and who makes an occasional appearance at the request of the legislature or an administrative agency, or the lobbyist even though receiving 
reimbursement or other payment from the legislature or administrative agency or the lobbyist for the appearance.  [L 1975, c 160, pt of §1; am L 
1980, c 129, §1(b); am L 1982, c 105, §2; gen ch 1985; am L 1992, c 53, 
§1; am L 2017, c 51, §3; am L 2023, c 20, §3]  
 §97-2.2  Mandatory lobbyist training.   (a)  Before registering pursuant to 
section 97- 2, each lobbyist shall complete the lobbyist training course administered by 
the state ethics commissio n. 
 (b)  Registered lobbyists shall repeat the lobbyist training course required by 
this section at least once every two years.  
(c)  A lobbyist shall certify completion of the lobbyist training course at the time 
of registering or renewing registration and shall maintain all certificates or other 
documentation of completion for a period of six years from the date of registration or renewal.  
(d)  For good cause shown, the state ethics commission may grant a lobbyist 
an extension of time to complete the training course required by this section.  
(e)  The state ethics commission shall develop and conduct online and live 
training courses that explain state lobbying laws under this chapter and relevant ethics laws under chapter 84.  Live training courses may be conducted in person or via videoconference, as necessary, to accommodate all persons who are required to complete the course.  [L 2023, c 20, §2]  
§97-2.5  Renewal of registration.   Each registered lobbyist shall renew the 
lobbyist ’s registration biennially by  filing a registration and authorization form with the 
state ethics commission within ten days of the opening of the 1983 regular session of the legislature and on every odd- numbered year ’s session thereafter.  [L 1980, c 129, 
§1(c); am L 1982, c 105, §3; g en ch 1985]  
 5 §97-3  Contributions and expenditures; statement.  (a)  The following persons 
shall file a statement of expenditures with the state ethics commission on March 31, 
May 31, and January 31 of each year and within thirty days after adjournment sine die 
of any special session of the legislature:  
(1) Each lobbyist ; 
(2) Each person who makes expenditures of $1,000 or more of the person’ s 
or any other person’ s money in any reporting period described in this 
section for the purpose of lob bying ; and 
(3) Each person who employs or contracts for the services of one or more lobbyists, whether independently or jointly with other persons.  If the person is an industry, trade, or professional association, only the association is the employer of t he lobbyist.  
(b) The March 31 report shall cover the period from January 1 through the last 
day of February.  The May 31 report shall cover the period from March 1 through April 30.  The January 31 report shall cover the period from May 1 through December  31 of 
the previous year.  The report to be filed within thirty days after adjournment sine die of a special session of the legislature shall : 
(1) Cover the period from May 1 through adjournment sine die of that special 
session ; 
(2) Be filed only by persons listed in subsection (a) who engage in lobbying activities, or who make expenditures for the purpose of attempting to influence legislative action considered during a special session; and  
(3) Apply to and include only those expenditures and contributions that relate 
to legislative action considered during that special session ; 
provided that those expenditures and contributions included in the report need not be 
included by the person filing the report in any subsequent statement of expenditures.  
(c) The statement shall contain the following information:  
(1) The name and address of each person with respect to whom expenditures for the purpose of lobbying in the total sum of $25 or more per day was made by the person filing the statement during the statement period and the amount or value of the  expenditure;  
(2) The name and address of each person with respect to whom expenditures for the purpose of lobbying in the aggregate of $150 or more was made by the person filing the statement during the statement period and the 
amount or value of the  expenditures;  
(3) The total sum or value of all expenditures for the purpose of lobbying made by the person filing the statement during the statement period; provided that the sum or value of each expenditure is itemized in the following categories, as applicable:  
(A) Preparation and distribution of lobbying materials;  
(B) Media advertising;  
(C) Compensation paid to lobbyists;  
(D) Fees paid to consultants f or services;  
(E) Entertainment and events;  
(F) Receptions, meals, food, and beverages;  6 (G) Gifts;  
(H) Loans;  
(I) Interstate transportation, including incidental meals and lodging; 
and 
(J) Other disbursements;  
(4) The name and address of each person making contributions to the person filing the statement for the purpose of l obbying in the total sum of $25 or 
more during the statement period and the amount or value of the 
contributions; and  
(5)   [Paragraph effective until December 31, 2024.  For paragraph effective 
January 1, 2025, see below. ]  The subject area of the legislative and 
administrative action that was supported or opposed by the person filing the statement during the statement period.  
(5) [Paragraph effective January 1, 2025.  For paragraph effective until 
December 31, 2024, see above. ]  The identity, by bi ll number, resolution 
number, and, if applicable, budget cost or program identification number, or other similar identifier,  of the legislative or administrative action that was 
commented on, supported by, or opposed by the person filing the 
statement duri ng the statement period.  
(d) The receipt or expenditure of any money for the purpose of influencing the 
election or defeat of any candidate for an elective office or for the passage or defeat of any proposed measure at any special or general election is ex cluded from the reporting 
requirement of this section.  [L 1975, c 160, pt of §1; am L 1979, c 91, §11; am L 1980, c 
129, §1(d); am L 1982, c 105, §4; gen ch 1985; am L 1991, c 238, §1; am L 1995, c 220, §6; am L 2014, c 144, §1 and c 224, §1; am L 2017, c 51, §5; am L 2023, c 8, §1]  
§97-4  Manner of filing; public records.   All statements required by this chapter 
to be filed with the state ethics commission:  
(1) Shall be deemed properly filed when delivered or deposited in an established post office within the prescribed time;  duly stamped, 
registered, or certified;  and directed to the state ethics commission; 
provided that in the event it is not received, a duplicate of the statement 
shall be promptly filed upon notice by the state ethics commission of its nonreceipt; and  
(2) Shall be maintained by the state ethics commission for a period of no less 
than six years from the date of filing; and shall constitute part of the public 
records of the state ethics commission.  [L 1975, c 160, pt of §1; am L 
1979, c 91, §12; am L 1980, c 129, §1(e); am L 1993, c 52, §1; am L 
2021, c 190, §1; am L 2023, c 9, §3]  
 
Note  
The 2023 amendment applies to all disclosures that were filed before March 31, 2023, and that are in the 
state ethics commission’ s possession and control.  L 2023, c 9, §4.  
 7 §97-4.5  Lobbyist list.   All lobbyist registration statements shall be posted on the 
state ethics commission’s website within a reasonable time after filing, and may be 
removed from the website after four years. [L 1980, c 129, §1(f); am L 2017, c 51, §5]  
§97-5  Restricted activities.   (a) No lobbyist shall accept or agree to accept any 
payment in any way contingent upon the defeat, enactment, or outcome of any 
proposed legislative or administrative action.   During any regular session  or special 
session of the state legislature, including any extension of any regular session or 
special session and any legislative recess days, holidays, and weekends, and for five calendar days before and after a session, no lobbyist shall make, or promise to make at a later time, any contributions  or expenditures to or on behalf of an elected official, 
candidate, candidate committee, or any other individual required to file an organization al 
report pursuant to section 11- 321.  
(b) For the purposes of this section, “elected official” has the same meaning 
as in section 11- 342. [L 1975, c 160, pt of §1; am L 2023, c 128, §3]  
§97-5.5  Unlawful gifts by lobbyists.   (a) It shall be unlawful for a lobbyist  or 
any person or entity required to file a statement of expenditures under section 97- 3 to 
make a gift to a legislator or employee that is prohibited by section 84- 11 or title 21, 
chapter 7 of the Hawaii administrative rules.  
(b)  For the purposes of this  section, “employee” shall have the same meaning 
as defined in section 84- 3. [L 2023, c 10, §2]  
§97-6  Administration .  (a)  The state ethics commission shall administer and 
implement this chapter, and shall have the following powers and duties:  
(1) Initia te, receive, and consider charges concerning alleged violations of this 
chapter, and investigate or cause to be investigated on a confidential basis, the activities of any person to determine whether the person is in compliance with this chapter;  
(2) Presc ribe forms for the statements and reports required by sections 97- 2 
and 97- 3 and establish orderly procedures for implementing the 
requirements of those provisions;  
(3) Render advisory opinions upon the request of any person subject to this chapter.  If no  advisory opinion is rendered within thirty days after the 
request is filed with the commission, it shall be deemed that an advisory opinion was rendered and that the facts and circumstances of that particular case do not constitute a violation of this chapter.  The opinion rendered or deemed rendered, until amended or revoked, shall be binding on the commission in any subsequent charges concerning the person subject to this chapter who sought the opinion and acted in reliance on it in good faith, unless material facts were omitted or misstated by the person in the request for an advisory opinion;  
(4) Issue subpoenas, administer oaths, and exercise those powers conferred upon the commission by section 92- 16; 
(5) Adopt rules, not inconsistent with this chapter, as in the judgment of the commission seem appropriate for the carrying out of this chapter and for 8 the efficient administration of this chapter, including every matter or thing 
required to be done or which may be done with the approval or consent or by order or under the direction or supervision of, or as prescribed by, the 
commission.  The rules, when adopted as provided in chapter 91, shall have the force and effect of law; and  
(6) Have jurisdiction for purposes of investigation and taking appropriate action on alleged violations of this chapter in all proceedings commenced 
within three years of an alleged violation of this chapter.  A proceeding shall be deemed commenced by the filing of a charge with the commission or by the signing of a c harge by three or more members of the  
commission.  Nothing shall bar proceedings against a person who by fraud or other device prevents discovery of a violation of this chapter.   
 (b) Charges concerning the violation of this chapter shall be in writing, si gned 
by the person making the charge under oath, except that any charge initiated by the commission shall be signed by three or more members of the commission.  The commission shall notify in writing every person against whom a charge is received and afford the person an opportunity to explain the conduct alleged to be in violation of the 
chapter.  The commission may investigate, after compliance with this section, such 
charges and render an informal advisory opinion to the alleged violator.  The commission  shall investigate all charges on a confidential basis, having available all the 
powers herein provided, and proceedings at this stage shall not be public.  If the informal advisory opinion indicates a probable violation, the person charged shall request a formal opinion or within a reasonable time comply with the informal advisory 
opinion.  If the person charged fails to comply with such informal advisory opinion or if a majority of the members of the commission determine that there is probable cause for belief that a violation of this chapter might have occurred, a copy of the charge and a 
further statement of the alleged violation shall be personally served upon the alleged violator.  Service shall be made by personal service upon the alleged violator wherever found or by registered or certified mail with request for a return receipt and marked deliver to addressee only.  If after due diligence service cannot be effected successfully in accordance with the above, service may be made by publication if so or dered by the 
circuit court of the circuit wherein the alleged violator last resided.  The commission shall submit to the circuit court for its consideration in issuing its order to allow service by publication an affidavit setting forth facts based upon the personal knowledge of the affiant concerning the methods, means, and attempts made to locate and effect service by personal service or by registered or certified mail in accordance with the above.  
Service by publication when ordered by the court shall be made by publication once a week for four successive weeks of a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the circuit of the alleged violator ’s last known state address.  The alleged violator shall have 
twenty days after service thereof to respond i n writing to the charge and statement.  
(c) If after twenty days following service of the charge and further statement 
of alleged violation in accordance with this section, a majority of the members of the commission conclude that there is probable cause to believe that a violation of this 
chapter has been committed, then the commission shall set a time and place for a 
hearing, giving notice to the complainant and the alleged violator in the same manner as 9 provided in subsection (b).  Upon the commission’ s issuance of a notice of hearing, the 
charge and further statement of alleged violation and the alleged violator ’s written 
response thereto shall become public records.  The hearing shall be held within ninety 
days of the commission ’s issuance of a notice of  hearing.  If the hearing is not held 
within that ninety -day period, the charge and further statement of alleged violation shall 
be dismissed; provided that any delay that is at the request of, or caused by, the alleged 
violator shall not be counted agains t the ninety -day period.   
All parties shall have an opportunity to:  
(1) Be heard;  
(2) Subpoena witnesses and require the production of any books or papers 
relative to the proceedings;  
(3) Be represented by counsel ; and 
(4) Have the right of cross -examinat ion. 
All hearings shall be in accordance with chapter 91.  All witnesses shall testify 
under oath and the hearings shall be open to the public.  The commission shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence but the commission’ s findings shall be based on 
competent and substantial evidence.   
All testimony and other evidence taken at the hearing shall be recorded.   All fees 
collected under this chapter shall be deposited into the general fund.  
(d) A decision of the commission pertaining to the conduct of any person 
subject to this chapter shall be in writing and signed by three or more of the members of the commission.  A decision of the commission rendered after a hearing together with findings and the record of the proceeding shall be a public record.  
(e) A person who files a frivolous charge with the commission against any 
person covered by this chapter shall be civilly liable to the person charged for all costs incurred in defending the charge, including but not limited to costs and attorneys ’ fees.  
In any  case where the commission does not issue a decision or final conclusion in 
which the commission concludes that a person has violated this chapter, the commission shall, upon the written request of the person charged, make a finding as to whether or not the charge was frivolous.  The person charged may initiate an action in the circuit court for recovery of fees and costs incurred in commission proceedings within one year after the commission renders a decision that the charge was frivolous.  The commission ’s decision shall be binding upon the court for purposes of a finding 
pursuant to section 607- 14.5.  
(f) The commission shall cause to be published yearly summaries of 
decisions, advisory opinions, and informal advisory opinions.  The commission shall make sufficient deletions in the summaries to prevent disclosing the identity of persons 
involved in the decisions or opinions where the identity of such persons is not otherwise 
a matter of public record under this chapter.  [L 1975, c 160, pt of §1; am L 1979,  c 91, 
§13; am L 1980, c 129, §1(g); am L 1982, c 105, §5; am L 1995, c 220, §7; am L 1997, 
c 264, §1; am L 1998, c 17, §1; am L 2001, c 146, §1; am L 2019, c 109, §2]  
 10 §97-6.5  REPEALED.   L 2001, c 146, §3.
§97-7  Penalties; administrative fines.   (a)  Any person or entity that:
(1) Negligently  fails to file any statement or report required by this chapter;
(2) Negligently  files a statement or report containing false information or
material omission of any fact;
(3) Engages in activities prohibited by section 97 -5;
(4) Fails to provide information required by section 97-2 , including
documentation confirming completion of the mandatory lobbyist training
course,  or 97- 3; or
(5) Makes a gift in violation of section 97- 5.5;
shall be  subject to an administrative fine imposed by the state ethics commission that 
shall not exceed $1,0 00 for each violation of this chapter.  All fines collected under this 
section shall be deposited into the general fund.  
(b) No fine shall be assessed unless  the state ethics commission :
(1) Convenes a hearing in accordance with section 97- 6(c) and chapter 91
and renders a decision; or
(2) Together with the alleged violator, agrees to resolve any alleged violation
before the completion of the contested case pr ocess; provided that the
resolution includes payment of an administrative fine or restitution, or both.
[L 1975, c 160, pt of §1; am L 1980, c 129, §1(h); am L 1995, c 220, §8;
am L 2001, c 146, §2; am L 2017, c 51, §6; am L 2019, c 109, §3; am L2023, c 10, §3 and c 20, §4]
[NO
TE:  Th e foregoing provisions  incorporate the Acts of the 2023 Regular Session. This  is the unofficial 
version of the statute for convenience only . Please refer to Hawai ʻi Revised Statutes for the official 
codified version.]  
June 2024

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/StateEthicsCodeGuide.pdf) ---
Guide to the State Ethics Code 
1001 Bishop Street, Suiite 970  Honolulu, Hawaii 96813  ethics@hawaiietthics.org   (808) 587-0460 January 2020 Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission I. Intr oducti on ............................................................................................................... ................ 1 
II. Gifts and Gifts Reporting
A. Prohibi ted Gifts .......................................................................................................... ......... 2 
B. Gifts Reporting .................................................................................................................... 2  
III. Fair Treatment
A. Outside Employm ent ........................................................................................................ .. 3 
B. Additional Compensat ion for Stat e Duties .......................................................................... 3 
C. Use of State Resour ces for Privat e Busi ness ..................................................................... 3 
D. Financial Transactions Betw een Supervisors and Subordinat es ........................................ 3 
IV. Confidential  Information .................................................................................................. .......... 3 
V. Conflicts of Interests
A. Disqualify Yourself W hen You Have a Conflict ................................................................... 4 
B. No New Conflic ts of Interests .............................................................................................  4 
C. No Assisting or Representing Others Before Your  State Agency ....................................... 4 
VI. State Contracts
A. Public Notice for Non-bid Contracts with St ate Empl oyees ................................................ 5 
B. No Contracting with Businesses Assisted by Former Agency Empl oyees .......................... 5 
VII. Post-Employment Restrictions
A. Confidential  Information .................................................................................................. .... 5 
B. No Representing Others for Pay Before Your  Former Agency ........................................... 5 
C. No Assisting or Representing Others on Cert ain Cont racts ................................................ 5 
D. Post-Employm ent Exceptions ............................................................................................. 5 
VIII. Penalties for Violations  of the State Ethics Code ...................................................................... 6 
IX. Contact Informa tion ....................................................................................................... ............ 6 
X. Ethi cs Quiz ............................................................................................................... ................. 6  Guide to the State Ethics Code 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 
 1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I. Introduction  
 The State Ethics Code is a set of laws that require ethical conduct 
by state legislators, state employ ees, and the members of state boards 
and commissions.  These laws promot e integrity and public confidence 
in government. 
 The State Ethics Commission admi nisters the State Ethics Code 
by (1) educating employees about the ethics laws, (2) giving ethics ad-
vice to employees, and (3) invest igating and prosecut ing ethics viola-
tions. 
 The State Ethics Code includes the following laws: 
Gifts and Gifts Reporting 
Fair Treatment Confidential Information Conflicts of Interests State Contracts Post-Employment Restrictions 
As a state employee, you are requi red to follow these ethics laws.  
Therefore, it is important to under stand how these laws apply to you. 
        
Guide to the State Ethics Code 
 This Guide summarizes the laws of the State Et hics Code that apply to all state employees in 
Hawai ‘i.  We have also included links to publications  that provide more information about the ethics 
laws (all posted on the State Ethics Commission’s website), and an Ethi cs Quiz that you can take to 
test your knowledge of the State Ethics Code. 
 In addition to using this Guide, we encour age all state employees to take the Hawai ‘i State 
Ethics Commission’s online training program, Ethics for State Employees .  The online training 
program only takes about 30 minutes to complete and covers all of the laws that are discussed in 
this Guide. 
 Note :  This Guide to the State Ethics Code is in tended for instructional purposes only and is 
not meant to be a complete  statement of the law. 
  HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 
The State Ethics Code is 
found in Hawai ‘i Revised 
Statutes (“HRS”) Chap-
ter 84. 
The State Ethics Code 
also includes a Finan-
cial Disclosure Law.  
For more information, 
see Financial Disclosure 
E-Filing Guide.  FYI FYI  2  
 
II. Gifts and Gifts Reporting 
 
A. Prohibited Gifts (HRS § 84-11) .  Do not accept a gift if it 
is reasonable to infer the gift is giv en to influence or reward your actions 
as a state employee.  
  
Can I Accept This Gift?   The State Ethics Commission looks at 
these factors to determine whether the Gifts Law allows you to accept a 
gift: (1) the relationship between you (or your agency) and the donor of 
the gift; (2) the value of the gift; and (3) whether the gift provides any 
benefit to the State. 
 Prohibited Gifts from Vendors,  Contractors and Others.   A gift 
is more likely to be prohibited if you take official action affecting the do-nor.  You generally may not accept any gifts from someone you inspect, 
investigate, license, or regulate, or  from vendors or contractors who do 
business with your agency.  For exam ple, a state health inspector must 
not accept free food or di scounts from a restaurant  that he or she in-
spects.  
 Gifts of Travel.   Contact the State Ethics Commission for guid-
ance if an organization offers to pay fo r your travel expenses for a trip 
(even if the trip is for state work purposes).  The Commission will advise 
you whether you may accept a gi ft of travel based upon information 
about your situation. 
    
B. Gifts Reporting (HRS § 84-11.5).   File a gifts disclosure 
statement to report a gift that y ou (or your spouse or dependent child) 
receive if all of  these conditions are met: 
 (1) The value of the gift, or t he combined value of two or more 
gifts from the same source, is more than $200;  
(2)  The source of the gift(s) has interests that may be affected 
by your actions as a state employee; and 
(3)  The gift is not exempt from reporting by law. 
Gifts Disclosure Statements are due on June 30 for gifts received be-
tween June 1 of the previous year and May 31 of the year of the report.  
 
 
 
 
For more information 
about the Gifts Reporting 
Law and instructions on 
how to file a gifts disclo-
sure form, see Gift Dis-
closure E-Filing Guide . To request guidance 
about a Gift of Travel, use 
Travel Questionnaire 
Form for Travel Expenses 
Paid By Non-State Enti-
ties  The Gifts Law applies to 
any gift , whether in the 
form of money, service, 
loan, travel, entertain-
ment, hospitality, or in 
any other form. 
FYI 
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 FYI 
FYI For more information 
about the Gifts Law, 
see Quick Guide on 
Gifts. Guide to the State Ethics Code  3  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
III.  Fair Treatment (HRS § 84-13(a))  
 Do not use your state position to  give “unwarranted” privileges or 
advantages to yourself or others.  In other words,  do not use your state 
position to unfairly benefit yourself or anyone else. 
  The following prohibitions also apply to you: 
A. Outside Employment.   Do not use your state position to 
obtain outside employment or contracts for yourself.  
B. Additional Compensation for State Duties.   Do not ac-
cept additional pay for doing your state job other than what the law 
allows you to receive. 
C. Use of State Resources for Private Business.   Do not 
use state time, equipment, facilities,  or other state resources (such 
as state e-mail and state personnel) for private business  activi-
ties, including private sales trans actions, fundraising for private 
clubs or charities, and political ca mpaign activities.   For example, 
do not sell crafts in your state office conference room, do not use 
your state e-mail to organize a sign- waving activity for a political 
candidate, and do not sell cookies to support your child’s soccer team in your state office. 
D. Financial Transactions Between Supervisors and Sub-
ordinates.   Do not enter into substant ial financial transactions with 
subordinates or anyone you supervise  or inspect.  For example, 
do not hire a subordinate employee to perform outside work for 
you, and do not rent an apartment to or from a subordinate em-
ployee. 
 
IV. Confidential Information (HRS § 84-12)  
 Do not disclose confidential informat ion that you acquire from your 
state job or use confidential inform ation to benefit yourself or anyone 
else. 
   
FYI 
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 For more information, 
see Quick Guide on 
Second Jobs and Other 
Private Business Activi-
ties and Quick Guide on 
Campaign Activities for 
State Officials and Em-
ployees .   A “business ” includes a 
for-profit company, non-
profit organization, and a 
political campaign. Guide to the State Ethics Code  4  
 
   
 
 
 
 V. Conflicts of Interests (HRS § 84-14)  
  
 A. Disqualify Yourself When You Have a Conflict  
(HRS § 84-14(a)).   Do not take any official action affecting a business  
in which you have a financial interest. 
You have a “ financial interest ” in a business  if you (or your spouse, 
civil union partner, or  dependent child) have any of these interests: 
If you have any of these financial inte rests in a business, you must dis-
qualify yourself from taking official action affecting that business.  For 
example, if your spouse is employ ed by a company or is on the board 
of directors of a non-profit organiza tion, you must disqualify yourself 
from taking any official action as a state employee affecting that compa-
ny or non-profit organization.    B. No New Conflicts of Inte rests (HRS § 84-14(b)).   Do not 
acquire a new financial interest in any  business that may be affected by 
your official action as a state empl oyee.  For example, do not get a sec-
ond job with a private company  if you take official action as a state em-
ployee affecting that company.   C. No Assisting or Representing Others Before Your 
State Agency  (HRS § 84-14(d)).   Do not assist or represent others for 
pay (1) in transactions before your state agency, or (2) on matters you 
have worked on, or will work on, as part of your state job. “Official action ” means 
anything you do as a state 
employee that involves 
your personal judgment or 
discretion.  Official action 
includes giving your ad-vice, approval, disapprov-
al, opinions, or recom-
mendations about some-
thing even if you are not 
the final decision maker. 
FYI 
 
 
 FYI 
For more information 
about the Conflicts of In-
terests Law and outside 
jobs, see Quick Guide on 
Second Jobs and Other 
Private Business Activi-
ties. 
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 Ownership .  Owning a business, including owning shares of stock 
in a business. 
Employment .  Being employed by a busin ess, even if part time.   
Officer or Director Position .   Serving as an offi cer or director of 
a for-profit company or a non-profit organization, even if you are 
not paid for your services.   
Ownership of Real Property or Personal Property . 
Loan or Debt .  Having a loan or debt that you owe to a business. 
Creditor of Insolvent Business .  Being a creditor of an insolvent 
business, such as a business that has filed for bankruptcy. A “business ” includes a 
for-profit company, non-
profit organization, and a 
political campaign. Guide to the State Ethics Code  5  
VII. Post-Employment Restrictions  
 (HRS §§ 84-18 and 84-15(b)) 
 
 A. Confidential Information (HRS § 84-18(a)).   Do not dis-
close any confidential information that you acquired from y our state job or 
use confidential information for yo ur personal gain or anyone’s benefit. 
  B. No Representing Others for Pay Before Your Former 
Agency (HRS § 84-18(c)).   For twelve months after you leave state em-
ployment, do not represent  others for pay on matters before your former 
state agency or on matters that you worked on as a state employee.  
    C. No Assisting or Representi ng Others on Certain Con-
tracts (HRS § 84-15(b)).   For two years after you leave state employ-
ment, do not assist or represent anyone in obtaining a contract from your 
former state agency if you worked on t he same contract matter while you 
were a state employee.     D. Post-Employment Exceptions.  (1) The post-employment 
restrictions do not apply to you if y ou were employed by the State for less 
than six months.  (2) A state agency ma y contract with you to act on a 
matter on behalf of the State at any ti me after you leave your state em-
ployment.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460   
VI. State Contracts (HRS § 84-15) 
  A. Public Notice for Non-bid C ontracts with State Employ-
ees (HRS § 84-15(a)).   State agencies must pos t a public notice before 
entering into a non-bid contract over $10,000 with a state legislator or em-
ployee, or a business in which a legi slator or employee has a controlling 
interest.  A copy of the notice must  be filed with the State Ethics Commis-
sion at least 10 days before the contract is awarded.   B. No Contracting with Busi nesses Assisted by Former 
Agency Employees (HRS § 84-15(b)).   A state agency ma y not enter into 
a contract with any busi ness that is assisted in the matter by someone 
who (1) was employed by the agen cy within the past two years, and 
(2) worked on the same contract  matter as a state employee. 
FYI 
“Represent ” means to 
directly communicate on 
behalf of any person or 
business with a state agency or its employees.  
For more information 
about the post-
employment restrictions, 
see Quick Guide on  
Post-Employment Laws . FYI Guide to the State Ethics Code 
  6  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 VIII. Penalties for Violations of the State Ethics Code 
 Penalties for violati ng the State Ethics Code include the following: 
 A. Fines of up to $1,000 for each violation (HRS § 84-39) 
B. Disciplinary action, including a reprimand, probation, demo-
tion, suspension, or termination of employment 
 (HRS § 84-33) 
C. Recovery by the Attorney Gener al of any gifts or profits re-
ceived as the result of a violation (HRS § 84-19) 
D. Cancellation of state contract s and any other favorable state 
action obtained as the result of  a violation ( HRS §§ 84-16, 
84-19) 
  
IX. Questions?  Contact the State Ethics Commission 
  
 The State Ethics Commission can assist you with any questions 
about the State Ethics Code.  Please email or call, visit the Commission’s 
website, and follow the Commission on Twitter: 
                  
            Ema il:  ethics@hawaiiethics.org 
 
           Phone:  (808) 587-0460 
      Website:  www.ethics.hawaii.gov 
 
     Twitter:  @HawaiiEthics  
 
X. Ethics Quiz! 
 Ready to test your knowledge of  the State Ethics Code?  Try our 
Ethics Quiz by clicking here. 
   
 
Mahalo for taking the time to learn about ethics! 
The Commission’s web-
site contains more infor-
mation about the State 
Ethics Code  and other 
ethics publications, in-
cluding The High Road 
newsletter. FYI 
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 Guide to the State Ethics Code

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/BCEthicsGuide.pdf) ---
Ethics Guide  
Hawai ‘i State Ethics Commission  
1001 Bishop Street, Suiite 970  Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiietthics.org   (808) 587 -0460  for State  Board and Commission Members  
March 2023  1    
 
 
 
 Introduction  
 The State Ethics Code is a set of laws that require ethical con-
duct by state legislators, state employees , and the members of state 
boards and commissions.  These laws promote integrity and public con-
fidence in government.  
 The State Ethics Commission administers the State Ethics Code 
by: (1) educating state officials about the ethics laws; (2) giving ethics 
advice to state officials; and (3) investigating and prosecuting ethics vio-
lations.  The Ethics Commission also administers a financial disclo-
sure law, which requires certain state officials — including the members 
of many boards and commissions — to file an annual disclosure of fi-
nancial interests.  These disclosures help ensure governmental account-
ability.  
 The State Ethics Code includes the following laws:  
Gifts and Gifts Reporting  
Fair Treatment  
Confidential Information  
Conflicts of Interests  
State Contracts  
Post-Employment Restrictions  
If you are a state board or commission member, it is important to 
understand how these ethics laws apply to you.  
 
Ethics Guide  
 This Guide  summarizes the laws in the State Ethics Code that apply to all state board and 
commission members in Hawai ‘i.  These laws require state officials to uphold high standards of ethi-
cal conduct.  
 We encourage all state board and commission members to learn more about their responsi-
bilities under the State Ethics Code by taking the Hawai ‘i State Ethics Commission ’s online training 
program,  Ethics for State Board and Commission Members . The online training program only 
takes about 30 minutes to complete and covers all the laws discussed in this Guide.  
 Note :  This Guide is intended for instructional purposes only and is not meant to be a com-
plete statement of the law.  HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org   (808) 587 -0460  
The State Ethics Code  is 
found in Hawai ‘i Revised 
Statutes (“HRS ”) chapter 
84; the Ethics Commis-
sion’s administrative rules 
interpret the Ethics Code 
(Title 21, chapters 1 -10). 
Financial disclosures  
must be filed by state 
board and commission 
members whose original 
terms of office are more 
than one year and whose 
duties are not solely advi-
sory.  For more infor-
mation, see Financial 
Disclosure E -Filing 
Guide.  FYI 
The State Ethics Code 
defines a state 
“employee ” to include 
a state board or com-
mission member.  for State Board and Commission Members  
FYI 
FYI 
2    
 
I. Gifts and Gifts Reporting  
 A. Prohibited Gifts  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  3 
 B. Gifts Reporting  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  3  
 
II. Fair Treatment  
 A. Outside Employment  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  4 
 B. Additional Compensation for State Duties  ................................ ................................ ..........  4 
 C. Use of State Resources for Private Business  ................................ ................................ ..... 4 
 D. Financial Transactions Between Supervisors and Subordinates  ................................ ........  4 
 
III. Confidential Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  4 
 
IV. Conflicts of Interests  
 A. Disqualify Yourself When You Have a Conflict  ................................ ................................ ... 5 
 B. “Expert ” Board Members  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 5 
 C. No New Conflicts of Interests  ................................ ................................ .............................  6 
 D. No Assisting or Representing Others Before Your State Agency  ................................ ....... 6 
 
V. State Contracts  
 A. Public Notice for Non -bid Contracts with State Employees  ................................ ................  6 
 B. No Contracting with Businesses Assisted by Former Agency Employees  ..........................  6 
 
VI. Post-Employment Restrictions  
 A. Confidential Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 7 
 B. No Representing Others for Pay Before Your Former Agency  ................................ ...........  7 
 C. No Assisting or Representing Others on Certain Contracts  ................................ ................  7 
 D. Post-Employment Exceptions  ................................ ................................ .............................  7 
 
VII. Penalties for Violations of the State Ethics Code  ................................ ................................ ...... 8 
  
VIII. Contact Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  8 
  
  
  Ethics Guide  
 TABLE OF CONTENTS  
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587 -0460  
for State Board and Commission Members  3    
 
I. Gifts and Gifts Reporting  
 
A. Prohibited Gifts (HRS § 84 -11).  Do not accept a gift if it 
is reasonable to infer the gift is given to influence or reward your actions 
as a board or commission member.  
  
Can I Accept This Gift?   The State Ethics Commission looks at 
these factors to determine whether the Gifts Law allows you to accept a 
gift: (1) the relationship between your board and the donor of the gift; 
(2) the value of the gift; and (3) whether the gift provides any benefit to 
the State.  
 
Prohibited Gifts from Regulated Entities, Vendors, Contrac-
tors, and Others.   A gift is more likely to be prohibited if you take official 
action affecting the donor.  You and your agency ’s staff generally may 
not accept any gifts from someone who is regulated by your board, a 
party to a contested case before your board, or vendors or contractors 
who do business with your board.  For example, a member of a state 
board may not accept a free dinner from a consultant who has a contract 
with the board.  
 
Gifts of Travel.   Contact the State Ethics Commission for guid-
ance if an organization offers to pay for your travel expenses for a trip 
(even if the trip is for a state purpose).  The Commission will advise you 
whether you may accept a gift of travel based upon information about 
your situation.  
    
B. Gifts Reporting (HRS § 84 -11.5).   File a gifts disclosure 
statement to report a gift that you (or your spouse/civil union partner or 
dependent child) receive if all of these conditions are met:  
 (1) The value of the gift, or the combined value of two or more 
gifts from the same source, is more than $200;  
(2)  The source of the gift(s) has interests that may be affected 
by your actions as a state board member; and 
(3)  The gift is not exempt from reporting by law.  
Gifts disclosure statements are due on June 30 for gifts received be-
tween June 1 of the previous year and May 31 of the year of the report.   
 
 
 
 
For more information 
about the Gifts Reporting 
Law and instructions on 
how to file a gifts disclo-
sure form, see Gift Dis-
closure E -Filing Guide . To request guidance 
about a Gift of Travel, use 
Travel Questionnaire 
Form for Travel Expenses 
Paid By Non -State Enti-
ties  The Gifts Law applies to 
any gift , whether in the 
form of money, service, 
loan, travel, entertain-
ment, hospitality, or in 
any other form.  
 
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org   (808) 587 -0460  For more information 
about the Gifts Law, see 
Quick Guide on Gifts . Ethics Guide for State Board and Commission Members  
FYI FYI 
FYI 
FYI 
4    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
II. Fair Treatment (HRS § 84 -13(a))  
 Do not use your state position to give “unwarranted ” privileges or 
advantages to yourself or others.  In other words, do not use your state 
position to unfairly benefit yourself or anyone else.  
  The following prohibitions also apply to you:  
A. Outside Employment.   Do not use your state position to 
obtain outside employment or contracts for yourself.  
B. Additional Compensation for State Duties.   Do not ac-
cept any compensation for performing your state duties unless 
permitted by law.  For example, do not accept any payment from a 
private organization for performing services that are part of your 
duties as a state board member.  
C. Use of State Resources for Private Business.   Do not 
use state time, equipment, facilities, or other state resources (such 
as state e -mail and state personnel) for private business  activi-
ties, including private sales transactions, fundraising for private 
clubs or charities, and political campaign activities .  For exam-
ple, do not promote your private business at a state board meeting 
and do not sell tickets for a charity fundraiser in a state office.  
D. Financial Transactions Between Supervisors and Sub-
ordinates.   Do not enter into substantial financial transactions with 
subordinates or anyone you supervise or inspect as a state board 
member.  For example, do not hire a subordinate state employee 
to perform outside work for you, and do not rent an apartment to 
or from a subordinate employee.  
 
III. Confidential Information (HRS § 84 -12)  
 Do not disclose confidential information that you acquire from your 
state duties or use confidential information to benefit yourself or anyone 
else.  
   
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org   (808) 587 -0460  A “business ” includes a 
for-profit company, non-
profit organization, and a 
political campaign.  Ethics Guide for State Board and Commission Members  
FYI 
For more information 
about campaign activi-
ties, see Quick Guide on 
Campaign Activities .  5    
 
   
 
 
 
 IV. Conflicts of Interests (HRS § 84 -14) 
  
 A. Disqualify Yourself When You Have a Conflict  
(HRS § 84 -14(a)).   Do not take any official action affecting a business  
in which you have a financial interest . 
You have a “financial interest ” in a business  if you (or your spouse, 
civil union partner, or dependent child) have any of these interests:  
If you have any of these financial interests in a business, you must dis-
qualify yourself from taking official action affecting that business.  For 
example, if your spouse is employed by a company or is on the board 
of directors of a non -profit organization, you must disqualify yourself 
from taking any official action as a state board member affecting that 
company or non -profit organization.  
  
 B. “Expert ” Board Members.  Board members who are re-
quired by law to represent particular interests, or to have special qualifi-
cations for serving on their boards, may take official action affecting 
certain businesses or professions in general, but may not take action 
that specifically affects only their own businesses.  For example, an 
“expert ” member of a professional licensing board may take official ac-
tion that will broadly affect all licensees, but may not take action that will 
specifically affect only his or her own license or business.  
 
 
 
 
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587 -0460  • Ownership of a Business .  Owning a business, including owning 
shares of stock in a business.  
• Employment .  Being employed by a business, even if part time.   
• Officer or Director Position .   Serving as an officer or director of 
a for-profit company or a non -profit organization, even if you are 
not paid for your services.   
• Ownership of Real Property or Personal Property . 
• Loan or Debt .  Having a loan or debt that you owe to a business.  
• Creditor of Insolvent Business .  Being a creditor of an insolvent 
business, such as a business that has filed for bankruptcy.  A “business ” includes a 
for-profit company, non-
profit organization, and a 
political campaign.  “Official action ” means a 
decision, recommenda-
tion, approval, disapprov-
al, or any other discre-
tionary action that you 
take as a state board 
member.  “Official action 
is not limited to making 
motions or voting at 
meetings; it also includes 
participating in discus-
sions or deliberations 
leading up to a vote or 
decision.  Ethics Guide for State Board and Commission Members  
FYI 
FYI 
6    
 
   
 
 
 
 Conflicts of Interests (HRS § 84 -14) (continued)  
    
 C. No New Conflicts of Interests (HRS § 84 -14(b)).   Do not 
acquire a new financial interest in any business that may be affected by 
your official action as a state board or commission member.  For exam-
ple, do not get a job with a private company if your board takes official 
action affecting that company.  
 
 
 D. No Assisting or Representing Others Before Your 
State Board  (HRS § 84 -14(d)).   Do not assist or represent others for 
pay (1) in transactions before your state board or commission, or (2) on 
matters in which you have participated or will participate as a state 
board member.  For example, do not assist your private employer in 
applying to your state board —or any other part of your state agency — 
for a loan or contract.  
 
 
V. State Contracts (HRS § 84 -15) 
 A. Public Notice for Non -bid Contracts with State Offi-
cials, Including Board and Commission Members (HRS § 84 -15(a)).   
State agencies must post a public notice before entering into a non -bid 
contract over $10,000 with a state legislator, employee, or board mem-
ber, or a business in which a legislator, employee, or board member 
has a controlling interest.  A copy of the notice must be filed with the 
State Ethics Commission at least 10 days before the contract is award-
ed. 
 
 B. No Contracting with Businesses Assisted by Former 
Agency Officials, Including Board and Commission Members  
(HRS § 84 -15(b)).   A state agency may not enter into a contract with 
any business that is assisted in the matter by someone who (1) was an 
employee or board member of the agency within the past two years, 
and (2) worked on the same contract matter as a state employee or 
board member.  
 
  
 
 For more information 
about the Conflicts of In-
terests Law and outside 
jobs, see Quick Guide on 
Second Jobs and Other 
Private Business Activi-
ties. 
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587 -0460  
Ethics Guide for State Board and Commission Members  
FYI 
7    
VI. Post -Employment Restrictions  
 (HRS §§ 84 -18 and 84 -15(b))  
 
 
 A. Confidential Information (HRS § 84 -18(a)).   After you 
leave your state position, do not disclose any confidential information that 
you acquired from your  state duties or use confidential information for 
your personal gain or anyone ’s benefit.  
 
 
 B. No Representing Others for Pay Before Your Former 
Board or Commission (HRS § 84 -18(c)).   For twelve months after you 
leave state service, do not represent  others for pay on matters before 
your former state board, or on matters in which you participated as a state 
board member.  For example, for twelve months after your state term of 
office ends, do not represent private clients on matters that come before 
your former board.  
   
 
 C. No Assisting or Representing Others on Certain Con-
tracts (HRS § 84 -15(b)).   For two years after you leave state service, do 
not assist or represent anyone in obtaining a contract from your former 
state board if you participated in the same contract matter while you were 
a board member.   
 
 
 D. Post -Employment Exceptions (HRS § 84 -18(d), (e)).  
The post -employment restrictions do not apply to you if you served on a 
state board for less than six months.  Also, a state agency may contract 
with you to act on a matter on behalf of the State at any time after your 
service as a state board member ends.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587 -0460  
“Represent ” means to 
directly communicate on 
behalf of any person or 
business with a state 
agency or its employees.  
For more information 
about the post -
employment restrictions, 
see Quick Guide on  
Post-Employment Laws . 
 Ethics Guide for Board and Commission Members  
FYI 
FYI 
8    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VII. Penalties for Violations of the State Ethics Code  
 Penalties for violating the State Ethics Code include the following:  
 A. Fines of up to $1,000 for each violation (HRS § 84 -39) 
B. Disciplinary action, including a reprimand, probation, demo-
tion, suspension, or termination of employment  
 (HRS § 84 -33) 
C. Recovery by the Attorney General of any gifts or profits re-
ceived as the result of a violation (HRS § 84 -19) 
D. Cancellation of state contracts and any other favorable state 
action obtained as the result of a violation (HRS §§ 84 -16, 
84-19) 
 
 
 
VIII. Questions?  Contact the State Ethics Commission  
 
 The State Ethics Commission can assist you with any questions 
about the State Ethics Code.  Please email or call, visit the Commission ’s 
website, and follow the Commission on Twitter:  
                  
                          
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
Learn more about your responsibilities under the State Ethics Code 
by taking the Hawai ‘i State Ethics Commission ’s online training program,  
Ethics for State Board and Commission Members . 
 
Mahalo for  your state service and for taking the time to 
learn about ethics!  
The Commission ’s web-
site contains more infor-
mation about the State 
Ethics Code and other 
ethics publications, in-
cluding The High Road  
newsletter.  
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i 96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587 -0460  Ethics Guide for State Board and Commission Members  
FYI FYI 
For a quick look at the 
State Ethics Code for new 
board members, see Quick 
Guide for New Employees 
and Board/Commission 
members.   Email:  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  
 
Phone:  (808) 587 -0460  
 
Website:  www.ethics.hawaii.gov  
 
Twitter:  @HawaiiEthics

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/RelatedResources.pdf) ---
Hawai`i State Ethics Commission Office of Information Practices
American Savings Bank Tower 250 S. Hotel Street #107
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970 Honolulu, HI 96813
Honolulu, HI  96813 (808) 586-1400
(808) 587-0460 https://oip.hawaii.gov/
https://ethics.hawaii.gov/ oip@hawaii.gov
ethics@hawaiiethics.org
Campaign Spending Commission
Honolulu Ethics Commission Leiopapa a Kamehameha Building (State Office Tower)
Kapalama Hale 235 S. Beretania St., 3rd Floor
925 Dilingham Boulevard, Suite 190 Honolulu, HI 96813
Honolulu, HI  96817 (808) 586-0285
(808) 768-9242 http://ags.hawaii.gov/campaign/
https://www.honolulu. gov/ethics
ethics@honolulu.gov Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs
http://cca.hawaii. gov/contact/
Board of Ethics - County of Hawai`i
101 Aupuni Street, Suite 325 For complaints against businesses:
Hilo, HI  96720 Office of Consumer Protection (OCP)
(808) 961-8251 King Kalakaua Building (US Post Office and Court House)
https://www.hawaiicounty.gov/our-county/boards-and-commissions#BNC 335 Merchant StHonolulu, HI 96813
Board of Ethics - County of Maui
(808) 587-4272
Department of Corporation Counsel http://cca.hawaii. gov/consumer-complaints/
200 S. High Street ocp@dcca.hawaii.gov
Kalana O Maui Building, 3rd FloorWailuku, HI  96793
For complaints against licensed professionals: 
(808) 270-7742 Regulated Industries Complaints Office (RICO)
https://www.mauicounty.gov/ 170/Board-of-Ethics Leiopapa a Kamehameha Building (State Office Tower)
corpcoun@mauicounty.gov 235 S. Beretania St., 9th Floor
Honolulu, HI 96813
Board of Ethics - County of Kaua`i (808) 587-4272
4444 Rice Street, Suite 300 http://cca.hawaii. gov/rico/
Lihue, HI  96766
(808) 241-4917 If a letter to the company doesn't resolve the problem, file a
https://www.kauai.gov/Government/Boards-and-Commissions/Board-of-Ethics complaint with DCCA using the links to the complaint forms below:
Regulated Industries Complaints Office
Department of the Attorney General Cable Television Division
425 Queen Street Division of Financial Institutions
Honolulu, HI 96813 Public Utilities Commission
(808) 586-1500 Insurance
https://ag.hawaii.gov/ Business Registration Division - Securities
hawaiiag@hawaii.gov Consumer Protection
Residential Landlord-Tenant Information Center
Office of the Ombudsman
Kekuanano`a Building (Territorial Office Building) Office of Disciplinary Counsel
465 S. King Street, 4th Floor 201 Merchant St, Suite 1600
Honolulu, HI 96813 Honolulu, HI 96813
(808) 587-0770 (808) 521-4591
ht
tps://www.ombudsman.hawaii. gov/ https://dbhawaii.org/the-attorney-disciplinary-complaint-process/
complaints@ombudsman.hawaii.gov info@dbhawaii.org
Office of the Auditor University of Hawai`i
Kekuanano`a Building (Territorial Office Building) 2444 Dole Street
465 S. King Street, 5th Floor Honolulu, HI 96822
Honolulu, HI 96813 File a report regarding incidents of sexual discrimination:
(808) 587-0800 https://report.system.hawaii.edu/student
https://auditor.hawaii.gov/ UH Title IX Complaints
lao.auditors@hawaii.gov https://www.hawaii.edu /titleix/help/directory/Resources
Rev. 8/10/2021

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/StateEthicsCodeGuide.pdf) ---
Guide to the State Ethics Code 
1001 Bishop Street, Suiite 970  Honolulu, Hawaii 96813  ethics@hawaiietthics.org   (808) 587-0460 January 2020 Hawai‘i State Ethics Commission I. Intr oducti on ............................................................................................................... ................ 1 
II. Gifts and Gifts Reporting
A. Prohibi ted Gifts .......................................................................................................... ......... 2 
B. Gifts Reporting .................................................................................................................... 2  
III. Fair Treatment
A. Outside Employm ent ........................................................................................................ .. 3 
B. Additional Compensat ion for Stat e Duties .......................................................................... 3 
C. Use of State Resour ces for Privat e Busi ness ..................................................................... 3 
D. Financial Transactions Betw een Supervisors and Subordinat es ........................................ 3 
IV. Confidential  Information .................................................................................................. .......... 3 
V. Conflicts of Interests
A. Disqualify Yourself W hen You Have a Conflict ................................................................... 4 
B. No New Conflic ts of Interests .............................................................................................  4 
C. No Assisting or Representing Others Before Your  State Agency ....................................... 4 
VI. State Contracts
A. Public Notice for Non-bid Contracts with St ate Empl oyees ................................................ 5 
B. No Contracting with Businesses Assisted by Former Agency Empl oyees .......................... 5 
VII. Post-Employment Restrictions
A. Confidential  Information .................................................................................................. .... 5 
B. No Representing Others for Pay Before Your  Former Agency ........................................... 5 
C. No Assisting or Representing Others on Cert ain Cont racts ................................................ 5 
D. Post-Employm ent Exceptions ............................................................................................. 5 
VIII. Penalties for Violations  of the State Ethics Code ...................................................................... 6 
IX. Contact Informa tion ....................................................................................................... ............ 6 
X. Ethi cs Quiz ............................................................................................................... ................. 6  Guide to the State Ethics Code 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
HAWAI ‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 
 1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I. Introduction  
 The State Ethics Code is a set of laws that require ethical conduct 
by state legislators, state employ ees, and the members of state boards 
and commissions.  These laws promot e integrity and public confidence 
in government. 
 The State Ethics Commission admi nisters the State Ethics Code 
by (1) educating employees about the ethics laws, (2) giving ethics ad-
vice to employees, and (3) invest igating and prosecut ing ethics viola-
tions. 
 The State Ethics Code includes the following laws: 
Gifts and Gifts Reporting 
Fair Treatment Confidential Information Conflicts of Interests State Contracts Post-Employment Restrictions 
As a state employee, you are requi red to follow these ethics laws.  
Therefore, it is important to under stand how these laws apply to you. 
        
Guide to the State Ethics Code 
 This Guide summarizes the laws of the State Et hics Code that apply to all state employees in 
Hawai ‘i.  We have also included links to publications  that provide more information about the ethics 
laws (all posted on the State Ethics Commission’s website), and an Ethi cs Quiz that you can take to 
test your knowledge of the State Ethics Code. 
 In addition to using this Guide, we encour age all state employees to take the Hawai ‘i State 
Ethics Commission’s online training program, Ethics for State Employees .  The online training 
program only takes about 30 minutes to complete and covers all of the laws that are discussed in 
this Guide. 
 Note :  This Guide to the State Ethics Code is in tended for instructional purposes only and is 
not meant to be a complete  statement of the law. 
  HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai ‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 
The State Ethics Code is 
found in Hawai ‘i Revised 
Statutes (“HRS”) Chap-
ter 84. 
The State Ethics Code 
also includes a Finan-
cial Disclosure Law.  
For more information, 
see Financial Disclosure 
E-Filing Guide.  FYI FYI  2  
 
II. Gifts and Gifts Reporting 
 
A. Prohibited Gifts (HRS § 84-11) .  Do not accept a gift if it 
is reasonable to infer the gift is giv en to influence or reward your actions 
as a state employee.  
  
Can I Accept This Gift?   The State Ethics Commission looks at 
these factors to determine whether the Gifts Law allows you to accept a 
gift: (1) the relationship between you (or your agency) and the donor of 
the gift; (2) the value of the gift; and (3) whether the gift provides any 
benefit to the State. 
 Prohibited Gifts from Vendors,  Contractors and Others.   A gift 
is more likely to be prohibited if you take official action affecting the do-nor.  You generally may not accept any gifts from someone you inspect, 
investigate, license, or regulate, or  from vendors or contractors who do 
business with your agency.  For exam ple, a state health inspector must 
not accept free food or di scounts from a restaurant  that he or she in-
spects.  
 Gifts of Travel.   Contact the State Ethics Commission for guid-
ance if an organization offers to pay fo r your travel expenses for a trip 
(even if the trip is for state work purposes).  The Commission will advise 
you whether you may accept a gi ft of travel based upon information 
about your situation. 
    
B. Gifts Reporting (HRS § 84-11.5).   File a gifts disclosure 
statement to report a gift that y ou (or your spouse or dependent child) 
receive if all of  these conditions are met: 
 (1) The value of the gift, or t he combined value of two or more 
gifts from the same source, is more than $200;  
(2)  The source of the gift(s) has interests that may be affected 
by your actions as a state employee; and 
(3)  The gift is not exempt from reporting by law. 
Gifts Disclosure Statements are due on June 30 for gifts received be-
tween June 1 of the previous year and May 31 of the year of the report.  
 
 
 
 
For more information 
about the Gifts Reporting 
Law and instructions on 
how to file a gifts disclo-
sure form, see Gift Dis-
closure E-Filing Guide . To request guidance 
about a Gift of Travel, use 
Travel Questionnaire 
Form for Travel Expenses 
Paid By Non-State Enti-
ties  The Gifts Law applies to 
any gift , whether in the 
form of money, service, 
loan, travel, entertain-
ment, hospitality, or in 
any other form. 
FYI 
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 FYI 
FYI For more information 
about the Gifts Law, 
see Quick Guide on 
Gifts. Guide to the State Ethics Code  3  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
III.  Fair Treatment (HRS § 84-13(a))  
 Do not use your state position to  give “unwarranted” privileges or 
advantages to yourself or others.  In other words,  do not use your state 
position to unfairly benefit yourself or anyone else. 
  The following prohibitions also apply to you: 
A. Outside Employment.   Do not use your state position to 
obtain outside employment or contracts for yourself.  
B. Additional Compensation for State Duties.   Do not ac-
cept additional pay for doing your state job other than what the law 
allows you to receive. 
C. Use of State Resources for Private Business.   Do not 
use state time, equipment, facilities,  or other state resources (such 
as state e-mail and state personnel) for private business  activi-
ties, including private sales trans actions, fundraising for private 
clubs or charities, and political ca mpaign activities.   For example, 
do not sell crafts in your state office conference room, do not use 
your state e-mail to organize a sign- waving activity for a political 
candidate, and do not sell cookies to support your child’s soccer team in your state office. 
D. Financial Transactions Between Supervisors and Sub-
ordinates.   Do not enter into substant ial financial transactions with 
subordinates or anyone you supervise  or inspect.  For example, 
do not hire a subordinate employee to perform outside work for 
you, and do not rent an apartment to or from a subordinate em-
ployee. 
 
IV. Confidential Information (HRS § 84-12)  
 Do not disclose confidential informat ion that you acquire from your 
state job or use confidential inform ation to benefit yourself or anyone 
else. 
   
FYI 
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 For more information, 
see Quick Guide on 
Second Jobs and Other 
Private Business Activi-
ties and Quick Guide on 
Campaign Activities for 
State Officials and Em-
ployees .   A “business ” includes a 
for-profit company, non-
profit organization, and a 
political campaign. Guide to the State Ethics Code  4  
 
   
 
 
 
 V. Conflicts of Interests (HRS § 84-14)  
  
 A. Disqualify Yourself When You Have a Conflict  
(HRS § 84-14(a)).   Do not take any official action affecting a business  
in which you have a financial interest. 
You have a “ financial interest ” in a business  if you (or your spouse, 
civil union partner, or  dependent child) have any of these interests: 
If you have any of these financial inte rests in a business, you must dis-
qualify yourself from taking official action affecting that business.  For 
example, if your spouse is employ ed by a company or is on the board 
of directors of a non-profit organiza tion, you must disqualify yourself 
from taking any official action as a state employee affecting that compa-
ny or non-profit organization.    B. No New Conflicts of Inte rests (HRS § 84-14(b)).   Do not 
acquire a new financial interest in any  business that may be affected by 
your official action as a state empl oyee.  For example, do not get a sec-
ond job with a private company  if you take official action as a state em-
ployee affecting that company.   C. No Assisting or Representing Others Before Your 
State Agency  (HRS § 84-14(d)).   Do not assist or represent others for 
pay (1) in transactions before your state agency, or (2) on matters you 
have worked on, or will work on, as part of your state job. “Official action ” means 
anything you do as a state 
employee that involves 
your personal judgment or 
discretion.  Official action 
includes giving your ad-vice, approval, disapprov-
al, opinions, or recom-
mendations about some-
thing even if you are not 
the final decision maker. 
FYI 
 
 
 FYI 
For more information 
about the Conflicts of In-
terests Law and outside 
jobs, see Quick Guide on 
Second Jobs and Other 
Private Business Activi-
ties. 
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 Ownership .  Owning a business, including owning shares of stock 
in a business. 
Employment .  Being employed by a busin ess, even if part time.   
Officer or Director Position .   Serving as an offi cer or director of 
a for-profit company or a non-profit organization, even if you are 
not paid for your services.   
Ownership of Real Property or Personal Property . 
Loan or Debt .  Having a loan or debt that you owe to a business. 
Creditor of Insolvent Business .  Being a creditor of an insolvent 
business, such as a business that has filed for bankruptcy. A “business ” includes a 
for-profit company, non-
profit organization, and a 
political campaign. Guide to the State Ethics Code  5  
VII. Post-Employment Restrictions  
 (HRS §§ 84-18 and 84-15(b)) 
 
 A. Confidential Information (HRS § 84-18(a)).   Do not dis-
close any confidential information that you acquired from y our state job or 
use confidential information for yo ur personal gain or anyone’s benefit. 
  B. No Representing Others for Pay Before Your Former 
Agency (HRS § 84-18(c)).   For twelve months after you leave state em-
ployment, do not represent  others for pay on matters before your former 
state agency or on matters that you worked on as a state employee.  
    C. No Assisting or Representi ng Others on Certain Con-
tracts (HRS § 84-15(b)).   For two years after you leave state employ-
ment, do not assist or represent anyone in obtaining a contract from your 
former state agency if you worked on t he same contract matter while you 
were a state employee.     D. Post-Employment Exceptions.  (1) The post-employment 
restrictions do not apply to you if y ou were employed by the State for less 
than six months.  (2) A state agency ma y contract with you to act on a 
matter on behalf of the State at any ti me after you leave your state em-
ployment.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460   
VI. State Contracts (HRS § 84-15) 
  A. Public Notice for Non-bid C ontracts with State Employ-
ees (HRS § 84-15(a)).   State agencies must pos t a public notice before 
entering into a non-bid contract over $10,000 with a state legislator or em-
ployee, or a business in which a legi slator or employee has a controlling 
interest.  A copy of the notice must  be filed with the State Ethics Commis-
sion at least 10 days before the contract is awarded.   B. No Contracting with Busi nesses Assisted by Former 
Agency Employees (HRS § 84-15(b)).   A state agency ma y not enter into 
a contract with any busi ness that is assisted in the matter by someone 
who (1) was employed by the agen cy within the past two years, and 
(2) worked on the same contract  matter as a state employee. 
FYI 
“Represent ” means to 
directly communicate on 
behalf of any person or 
business with a state agency or its employees.  
For more information 
about the post-
employment restrictions, 
see Quick Guide on  
Post-Employment Laws . FYI Guide to the State Ethics Code 
  6  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 VIII. Penalties for Violations of the State Ethics Code 
 Penalties for violati ng the State Ethics Code include the following: 
 A. Fines of up to $1,000 for each violation (HRS § 84-39) 
B. Disciplinary action, including a reprimand, probation, demo-
tion, suspension, or termination of employment 
 (HRS § 84-33) 
C. Recovery by the Attorney Gener al of any gifts or profits re-
ceived as the result of a violation (HRS § 84-19) 
D. Cancellation of state contract s and any other favorable state 
action obtained as the result of  a violation ( HRS §§ 84-16, 
84-19) 
  
IX. Questions?  Contact the State Ethics Commission 
  
 The State Ethics Commission can assist you with any questions 
about the State Ethics Code.  Please email or call, visit the Commission’s 
website, and follow the Commission on Twitter: 
                  
            Ema il:  ethics@hawaiiethics.org 
 
           Phone:  (808) 587-0460 
      Website:  www.ethics.hawaii.gov 
 
     Twitter:  @HawaiiEthics  
 
X. Ethics Quiz! 
 Ready to test your knowledge of  the State Ethics Code?  Try our 
Ethics Quiz by clicking here. 
   
 
Mahalo for taking the time to learn about ethics! 
The Commission’s web-
site contains more infor-
mation about the State 
Ethics Code  and other 
ethics publications, in-
cluding The High Road 
newsletter. FYI 
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970   Honolulu, Hawai‘i  96813  ethics@hawaiiethics.org  (808) 587-0460 Guide to the State Ethics Code

--- Text from PDF (https://ethics.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/MandatoryEthicsTrainingFlyer.pdf) ---
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION 
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970 | Honolulu, Hawai‘i 96813 | ethics@ hawaiiethics.org | (808) 587-0460 | Twitter: @HawaiiEthics 
Mandatory State Ethics Training 
Beginning on Jan. 1, 2023, all state legislators, state employees, and members of state boards and commissions are required 
to take ethics training on a periodic basis. To sign up for a training class, please go to: https://ethics.hawaii.gov/training/  
 
:KLFKW\SHRIHWKLFVWUDLQLQJGR,QHHGWRWDNH"  
8QGHU$FWRQO\FHUWDLQVWDWHRIILFLDOVDUHUHTXLUHGWRWDNH OLYHHWKLFVWUDLQLQJHOHFWHGRIILFLDOVKLJK -OHYHOVWDWHHPSOR\HHVPHPEHUVRINH\VWDWH
ERDUGVDQGFRPPLVVLRQVDQGDQ\ VWDWHRIILFLDOZKRLVUHTXLUHGWRILOHDSXEOLFILQDQFLDOGLVFORVXUHXQGHU+56 -GVHHEHORZ  
(YHU\RQHHOVHPD\WDNHWKH RQOLQHVHOI-GLUHFWHGWUDLQLQJSURJUDP  
 
:KRLVUHTXLUHGWRWDNHWKH/,9(HWKLFVWUDLQLQJFRXUVH"  
7KHIROORZLQJVWDWHRIILFLDOVPXVWWDNHD OLYHHWKLFVWUDLQLQJFRXUVHYLDDYLGHRFRQIHUHQFHSODWIRUPVXFKDV=RRPRU7HDPV  
 
,ZRXOGOLNHWRDWWHQGRQHRIWKHXSFRPLQJZHELQDUV*HQHUDO(WKLFV7UDLQLQJDQG(WKLFVIRU6WDWH%RDUG	
&RPPLVVLRQ0HPEHUV&DQ,VLJQXSIRUHLWKHURQH"  
<HV$OOWUDLQLQJVZLOOSURYLGHDJHQHUDORYHUYLHZRIWKH6WDWH(WKLFV&RGH7KHSULPDU\GLIIHUHQFHLVWKHW\SHRIH[DPSOHVD QGVFHQDULRVXVHGLQWKH
WUDLQLQJ:HDOVRRIIHUDFRQWLQXLQJOHJDOHGXFDWLRQFRXUVHWKDWLVGHVLJQHGIRUVWDWHJRYHUQPHQWDWWRUQH\V  
 
,DWWHQGHGHWKLFVWUDLQLQJLQ'R,QHHGWRUHWDNHWUDLQLQJXQGHUWKHQHZODZ"  
<HV\RXPXVWFRPSOHWHDQHZWUDLQLQJVHVVLRQE\ -DQXDU\ ,I\RXDWWHQGHGWUDLQLQJZLWKLQWKHODVWWKUHH\HDUVEHWZHHQ-DQXDU\DQG
-DQXDU\WKHQ\RX ¶YHPHWWKHLQLWLDOUHTXLUHPHQW<RXZRQ ¶WQHHGWRWDNHLWDJDLQIRUWKHQH[WIRXU\HDUV  
 
$UHDGYLVRU\ERDUGPHPEHUVVXEMHFWWRWKLVUHTXLUHPHQW"  
1R,I\RXVHUYHRQDVWDWHWDVNIRUFHFRPPLWWHHRUERDUGWKDWLV SXUHO\DGYLVRU\ LQQDWXUHWKHQ\RXDUHQRWVXEMHFWWRWKHQHZPDQGDWRU\WUDLQLQJ
UHTXLUHPHQWV,ILQGRXEWSOHDVHDVNWKH(WKLFV&RPPLVVLRQZKHWKHUWKHPDQGDWRU\WUDLQLQJODZDSSOLHVWR\RX<RXDUHDOVRZ HOFRPHWRWDNHWKH
RQOLQHVHOI -GLUHFWHGWUDLQLQJSURJUDP —LW¶VDJUHDWUHVRXUFH  
HAWAI‘I STATE ETHICS COMMISSION  
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 970 | Honolulu, Hawai‘i 96813 | ethics@hawaiiethics.org | (808) 587 -0460 | Twitter: @HawaiiEthics   
(OHFWHG2IILFLDOV /HJLVODWRUV*RYHUQRU/W*RYHUQRU  
([HFXWLYH%UDQFK 'HSWKHDGVGLUHFWRUV	GHSXW\
GLUHFWRUV	$GPLQLVWUDWLYH'LUHFWRURIWKH6WDWH  
'2(6XSHULQWHQGHQW	GHSXW\VXSHULQWHQGHQWV  
-XGLFLDU\ $GPLQLVWUDWLYHGLUHFWRU	GHSXW\GLUHFWRU  
2+$7UXVWHHV&(2	H[HFXWLYHPJPWWHDP  
6WDWH/LEUDU\ 6WDWH/LEUDULDQ	6SHFLDO$VVLVWDQW  
8+3UHVLGHQW93V$VVW93V3URYRVW	&KDQFHOORUV   
0HPEHUVRI6WDWH%RDUGV	&RPPLVVLRQV  
$JULEXVLQHVV'HYHORSPHQW&RUS  
%RDUGRI$JULFXOWXUH  
%RDUGRI(GXFDWLRQ  
%RDUGRI/DQG	1DWXUDO5HVRXUFHV  
&RPPLVVLRQRQ:DWHU5HVRXUFH0DQDJHPHQW  
+DZDLދL&RPPXQLW\'HYHORSPHQW$XWKRULW\  
+DZDLLDQ+RPHV&RPPLVVLRQ  
+DZDLދL3XEOLF+RXVLQJ$XWKRULW\   
+DZDLދL3XEOLF8WLOLWLHV&RPPLVVLRQ  
+DZDLދL6WDWH(WKLFV&RPPLVVLRQ  
+RXVLQJ)LQDQFH	'HYHORSPHQW&RUS  
/DQG8VH&RPPLVVLRQ  
/HJDF\/DQG&RQVHUYDWLRQ&RPPLVVLRQ  
1DWXUDO$UHD5HVHUYHV6\VWHP&RPPLVVLRQ  
1DWXUDO(QHUJ\/DERI+DZDLދL$XWKRULW\  
6WDGLXP$XWKRULW\  
8+%RDUGRI5HJHQWV

--- Text from PDF (https://cca.hawaii.gov/sec/files/2015/10/Fraud-Guide-2.pdf) ---
MAHALO
This guide is brought to you by:
Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs
Offi  ce of the Securities Commissioner
Department of Health
Executive Offi  ce on Aging,
Senior Medicare Patrol (SMP Hawaii) Program 
Department of the Attorney General 
Crime Prevention and Justice Assistance Division Hawaii’s   FRAUD PREVENTION & RESOURCE GUIDE  2ND EDITION
Hawaii ’s  FRAUD PREVENTION
    &  RESOURCE GUI DE
                                                        2ND EDITIONHawaii’s Fraud Prevention & Resource Guide 2nd Edition  
LETTER FROM GOVERNOR DAVID IGE
 
Aloha! I am proud to introduce the second edition of Hawaii’s 
Fraud Prevention & Resource Guide.
My administration is deeply committed to protecting our families, 
caring for our kupuna and providing for our keiki. As part of this 
ongoing effort, the Department of Commerce and Consumer 
Affairs, the Department of Health and the Department of the 
Attorney General have collaborated to produce this helpful guide, one of the most popular state anti-fraud resources.   
Along with information on how to protect yourself against fraud 
and who to call to receive help, this guide describes some of 
the most common types of fraud in Hawaii to help consumers 
recognize and avoid them.  
A big mahalo to the state agencies that worked together to 
develop this important resource for Hawaii consumers. 
 
Mahalo nui loa,
 
David Ige
Governor of the State of Hawaii
4 
 
Hawaii’s Fraud Prevention & Resource Guide, 2nd Edition
This guide is provided by the Department of Commerce and Consumer 
Affairs, Office of the Securities Commissioner; Department of Health, 
Executive Office on Aging, Senior Medicare Patrol (SMP Hawaii) and 
the Department of the Attorney General, Crime Prevention and Justice 
Assistance Division.
Primary funding for this guide is provided by the State of Hawaii 
Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs, Office of the Securities 
Commissioner with additional funding provided by the Department of 
Health, Executive Office on Aging, Senior Medicare Patrol  
(SMP Hawaii). 
This guide was supported in part by Grant No. 90SP-0100-01 from 
the Administration on Aging (AoA), Administration for Community 
Living (ACL), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS).  
Grantees carrying out projects under government sponsorship are 
encouraged to express freely their findings and conclusions. Therefore, 
points of view or opinions do not necessarily represent official AoA, ACL, 
or DHHS policy. 
The informati on provided in this guide is for general informational 
purposes only, and may not be applicable to every situation. The 
information presented here is not intended to set any standards, nor is it 
to be taken as, nor should it replace, legal counsel. Although some of the 
information contained herein is about legal issues, this Guide is not and 
should not be treated as legal advice. Due to the ever-changing nature 
of the law, the public should seek timely legal advice from counsel, 
based on current law, prior to taking any action based upon information 
contained in this guide. 
©2015 State of Hawaii, Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs, 
Office of the Securities Commissioner; the Department of Health, 
Executive Office on Aging, Senior Medicare Patrol (SMP Hawaii); the 
Department of the Attorney General, Crime Prevention and Justice 
Assistance Division. For more information about reprint permission, 
contact the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs, Office of 
the Securities Commissioner (808) 587-7400.
October 20155 
    TABLE OF CONTENTS
 INTRODUCTION  .................................................... 8
 Tactics of Scam Artists ................................................. 8
1 WAYS WE GET SCAMMED: METHODS ............. 10
 Internet  .................................................................... 11
  Social Networks  .................................................... 15
 Mail .......................................................................... 18
 Person-to-Person  ....................................................... 20
 Phone  ....................................................................... 21
2 ADVANCE FEE FRAUD ......................................... 23
 Inheritance Scam  ....................................................... 25
 Foreign Money Transfer Scam ..................................... 26
 Lottery or Sweepstakes Scam ..................................... 27
3 COMMON CONSUMER FRAUDS ........................ 31
 Overpayment, Fake Refund and Fake Check Fraud ........ 32
 Charity Fraud  ............................................................. 34
 Construction and Home Repair .................................... 36
 Solar Panels/Photovoltaic (PV) Panels .......................... 40
 Rental Scam .............................................................. 44
 Security Alarm System Fraud ...................................... 46
 Hearing Aid Dealers and Fitters ................................... 47
 Car Repairs and Sales ................................................. 47
 Utility Company Scams ............................................... 48
 Purchasing Online  ...................................................... 48
 Check a Professional License and Complaint History    for more than 48 Industries ................................... 49
CONTENTS      64  IDENTITY THEFT ................................................. 51
 How Do Thieves Get Your Information? ........................ 52
 What Kinds of Information Are Most 
     Important to Protect? ............................................. 57
 What Should You Do If You Think Your Information 
     Has Been Lost or Stolen? ........................................ 57
 If You Are a Victim of Identity Theft  ........................... 58
 If Your Child Is a Victim of Identity Theft ..................... 60
 If You Are a Victim of Tax Identity Theft ...................... 60
 How to Get Your FREE Credit Report ........................... 61
5 FINANCIAL FRAUD ............................................. 62
 Credit Card Fraud ....................................................... 63
 Insurance Fraud  ......................................................... 65
 Investment Fraud  ...................................................... 67
  Ponzi Schemes  ..................................................... 68
  Affinity Fraud ....................................................... 72
 Home Loan Fraud ...................................................... 73
 Mortgage Reduction/Servicing or 
          Debt Relief Fraud .................................................. 76
6 HEALTHCARE AND MEDICARE FRAUD ........... 79
 Professional Licenses: Dentists, Nurses, Doctors ........... 80
 Medicare Fraud  .......................................................... 80
7 KEEPING OUR KUPUNA (SENIORS) SAFE .....87
 Common Consumer Scams Against Kupuna .................. 88
Talking Story with Our Kupuna .................................... 91
 Ponzi and Affinity Fraud ........................................ 92
 Variable Annuities  ................................................. 94
 Life Settlements ................................................... 95
 Indexed Annuities  ................................................. 97
 Medicare  ............................................................ 100
CONTENTS7 CONTENTS Charity  .............................................................. 102
 Kupuna Online  ......................................................... 103
 Caregivers  ............................................................... 105
 What is a Fiduciary ............................................. 106
 Different Types of Fiduciaries ............................... 107
 Protecting our Kupuna ........................................ 107
 Where to Get Help for Kupuna and Caregivers ............ 110
8 RESOURCES  ........................................................ 113
 County Resources
 City and County of Honolulu ................................ 114
 Hawaii County  .................................................... 115
 Kauai County  ...................................................... 117
 Maui County  ....................................................... 118
 State Resources  ....................................................... 120
 National Resources  ................................................... 132
8INTRODUCTIONTACTICS OF SCAM ARTISTSAloha. Welcome to the second edition of Hawaii’s Fraud 
Prevention & Resource Guide. This guide is one of the first state 
multi-agency guides developed in the nation to focus on you, the 
consumer, and the many different popular frauds and scams trying 
to separate you from your hard-earned money. After publishing 
the first edition in 2008, we felt it was time to offer users an 
updated version. 
In Hawaii, we have a local way of life that many of us cherish. It 
includes generosity, and deep bonds of family and friendship. Our 
sense of ohana is strong, but even in Hawaii, the darker sides of 
human nature lurk. Financial and consumer fraud happens right 
here in our islands, and they are not limited to a specific ethnicity, 
gender or age group. This guide was developed to introduce consumers to common scams happening in our islands today, to 
offer information on how to protect yourself and your family and 
to direct consumers to where to get help. Please take the time 
to read this guide. By protecting yourself and your family and 
reporting fraud, you can help make our islands safer and preserve 
the best parts of our way of life. INTRODUCTION
Scam artists tailor their pitch to match the psychological profiles 
of their targets. They work to find out what motivates you so they 
can take advantage of your resources and money. Here are some 
of the age-old tactics that scam artists use again and again. 
Get to kno w these tactics so the next time anyone tries to use 
them on you, you know you’re dealing with a hard sell and/or 
maybe even fraud. 9COMMON PERSUASION TACTICS INCLUDE:  
 • Phantom Riches  – dangling the prospect of wea lth, enticing you with 
something you want but can’t have. “These Hawaiian water systems 
are guaranteed to produce $6,800 per month in income.” 
 • Source Credibility – trying to build credibility by claiming to be with a 
reputable firm, or to have a special credential or experience. “Believe 
me, as a senior vice president of XYZ Firm, I would never sell an 
investment that doesn’t produce.” 
 • Social Consensus  – leading you to believe that other savvy investors 
have already invested. “This is how ___ got his start. I know it’s a 
lot of money, but I’m in—and so is my mom and half of her church—
and it’s worth every dime.”
 • Reciprocity – offering to do a small favor for you in return for a big 
favor. “I’ll give you a break on my commission if you buy now—half 
off.”
 • Scarcity – creating a false sense of urgency by claiming limited 
supply. “There are only two units left, so I’d sign today if I were you.”  
 
Source:  FINRA. Fighting Fraud 101. Retrieved from http://www.finra.org/investors/avoid-fraud
 HERE ARE TYPES OF SCAMS COVERED IN THIS GUIDE
• Affinity Fraud
• Car Repair
• Charity
• Construction & Home Repair
• Credit Card Fraud
• Foreign Money Transfer
• Health Care Insurance 
• Hearing Aids
• Home Loans•   Inheritance
•   Insurance
•   Investment
•   Lottery
•   Mortgage 
•   Phishing 
•   Ponzi Schemes
•   Rental Scams 
•   Utility
INTRODUCTION10
   METHODS
WAYS WE GET 
SCAMMED:
METHODS
Scammers reach us through the 
Internet, social networks, mail,  
person-to-person, and phone. This 
section will describe each approach, 
some of the common risks and tips to 
protect yourself. 11
   METHODS METHODSINTERNET
The evolution of the Internet has its advantages and disadvantages. 
It can improve our quality of life, but it can also put us at risk. 
Below, we discuss some of the ways scammers are using the 
Internet to perpetrate fraud.  
IDENTITY THEF T
Identity theft was a problem even before the Internet, but identity 
theft happens faster and the threat is more widespread through 
the Internet. There are different ways your personal information 
can be stolen electronically. Some techniques used by identity 
thieves include hacking into computers that don’t have a firewall, 
installing keystroke loggers or other malicious codes hidden in 
email attachments and hiding viruses in images, downloads or free 
software. For more information on Identity Theft, see page 51.
MALWARE
Malware, short for malicious software, includes any codes, scripts 
or other software that infect your computer to damage it, to take 
your private information and to gain access to your private system. 
It includes computer viruses, spyware, worms and many other 
malicious programs.  
The most common ways to get infected with Malware are 
through downloading materials from the Internet, opening unsafe 
attachments sent by email, clicking on internet ads and surfing 
sites with flashy ads.  
Beware of where you surf and what you download or open.
ADW ARE
This is a type of malware used to run a good old fashioned scam.  
The scammer first secretly infects your computer through your 12
   METHODSunsafe download or attachment. They place an ad in your system 
but disguise the ad so you do not suspect it. As you use your 
computer, a surprise pop up says “You have a virus. Call us 
immediately at 1-800-XXX-XXXX.” This pop up looks like a genuine 
message from your computer system, not like an ad. You call the 
number and the person on the phone proceeds to scam you out 
of your credit card number and personal information and may 
even persuade you to give them remote access to your computer 
to help you “fix it.”      
Beware, don’t call random pop up numbers.  Don’t let 
strangers remotely access your computer.  To get help, 
take your computer to a local reputable store.
The Internet has led to scams uniquely suited for the fast pace of 
the Internet and the ease in which scammers can disguise their 
identities through email and social media. HERE ARE SOME 
COMMON INTERNET SCAMS COVERED IN THIS GUIDE.
• Advance Fee Fraud, page 23
• Nigerian Letter (also known as 419), page 26
• Phishing, page 52
• Purchasing Online, page 48 
 
 
• Make passwords long, strong and unique.  You should 
have a different password for each online account, using 
a combination of upper and lower case letters, numbers and symbols. 
• Think before you act. Most organizations - banks, 
charities, universities, reputable companies, etc., will not 
   HELPFUL TIPS WHEN USING THE INTERNET13
   METHODS METHODSask for personal information via email. Be wary of email 
requests to update or “confirm” your information. 
• Post with caution.  Information you post online, especially 
on social networking sites, can be collected and used 
to steal your identity. Keep information such as social 
security numbers, account numbers, birthdates and home 
addresses confidential. 
• Own your online presence. Understand how privacy 
settings work on social networks and websites you 
frequent. Set them to your comfort level of sharing. 
KEEP A CLEAN COMPUTER  
• Keep software updated. Install the latest security 
software, web browser and operating system on your 
computer. Enable the auto-update feature to ensure you 
have the most up-to-date security software.  
PROTECT YOUR WIRELESS NETWORK
• Create a secure password for your wireless router.
CONNECT WITH CARE 
• Check to make sure the URL is encrypted.  When banking 
or shopping online, enter information only into security-
enabled sites that begin with https://. The “s” means the 
data is encrypted in transit. Never enter bank or credit 
card information into a website that begins http:// 
• Check for the lock icon. The lock icon should be displayed 
in the URL bar, also known as the address bar. 14
   METHODSBE WEB WISE
• When in doubt, throw it out. Links and attachments 
in emails, social media posts, and online ads are often 
how scammers gain access to your computer. If you are 
instructed to click a link or attachment in a message 
you don’t trust, even if you know the sender, delete the 
message or mark it as junk mail. 
• Back it up. Store valuable work, photos, music and other 
information on a backup hard drive and online in the 
“cloud.” 
• If you have been a victim of a cybercrime, file a complaint 
with the Internet Crime Complaint Center at  
www.victimvoice.org            
Source: Multi-State Newsletter. Keeping Senior Citizens Safe Online. 
http://msisac.cisecurity.org/newsletters/2013-06.cfm           
 
15
   METHODS METHODSINTERNET: SOCIAL NETWORKS
Internet social networking describes web-based online 
applications that allow users to interact and connect with groups 
of people, all at once, over the Internet. Participants can post text, 
videos and pictures that are viewable by other users anywhere 
throughout the world. Some examples of Internet social networks 
are Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, and Twitter. 
 
Many users of online social networks post too much personal 
information online. Scammers can take advantage of all the 
background and personal information shared online and use it 
to make a skillful and highly targeted pitch to scam the potential 
victim. The scam can spread rapidly through a social network as 
the scammer gains access to the friends and colleagues of the 
initial victim.  
Users of social media should be careful about posting personal 
information, vacation times or other details about when they are 
away from home. This information can lead to burglary and other 
crimes. Users of social media should also consider privacy settings 
to limit who can access private posts. 
16
   METHODS 
COM MON INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORK SCAMS
• Identity Theft, page 51
• Nigerian Letter (also known as 419), page 26
• Be careful of what you share. Limit posting personal 
information. Don’t post banking information and 
information such as full birthdates, mother’s maiden name, 
vacation dates, social security numbers and full home 
addresses. 
• Be skeptical  when approached by someone you don’t 
know. AFFINITY FRAUD AND SOCIAL NETWORKING
Social networks and the Internet have made it easier 
than ever to connect with others that share a common 
interest whether it is based on hobbies, lifestyle, faith, 
career advancement or business interest. Strong bonds 
can develop quickly within these groups. Because of this, 
scammers can quickly and thoroughly infiltrate groups 
and scam them. Scams that leverage group loyalties and 
relationships are a form of Affinity Fraud. 
Once the bond has been established, the scammer enlists 
their potential victim to donate money to a particular 
cause or charity that is nonexistent or invest in a sketchy 
enterprise. Beware, don’t let emotions override your own 
common sense. 
   HELPFUL TIPS WHEN USING  
SOCIAL NETWORKS17
   METHODS METHODS• Don’t let your guard down just because they are a  
friend of a friend. Let the relationship develop slowly 
and try to be neutral when you assess investment 
opportunities.
• Don’t open or download attachments from strangers or 
suspicious posts.
 
Online i nvestment fraud has many of the same characteristics 
as offline investment fraud. Learn to recognize these red flags: 
• Promises of high returns with no risk.  Many online scams 
promise unreasonably high short-term profits. Guarantees 
of returns around 2 percent a day, 14 percent a week or 
40 percent a month are too good to be true. Remember 
that risk and reward go hand in hand.  
• Offshore operations.  Many scams are headquartered 
offshore, making it more difficult for regulators to shut 
down the scam and recover investors’ funds. 
• E-Currency sites.  If you have to open an e-currency 
account to transfer money, use caution. These sites may 
not be regulated, and the scammer can use them to 
cover up the money trail. 
• Recruit your friends. Many con artists will offer bonuses if 
you recruit your friends into the scheme. 
• Professional websites with little or no information. These 
days, anyone can put up a website. Scam sites may look 
professional, but be suspicious if they offer little to no 
RED FLAGS FOR INTERNET SCAMS18
   METHODSinformation about the company’s management, location 
or details about the investment 
• No written information. Online scam promoters often 
fail to provide a prospectus or other form of written 
information detailing the risks of the investment and 
procedures to get your money out.  
Source: NASAA. Social Networking. Retrieved from 
     http://www.nasaa.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/NASAA_Advisory_Social-Networking.pdf
MAIL
IDENTITY THEFT
People send and receive mail on a daily basis, and our mail 
contains information that identity thieves want. For example, 
bank statements, utility bills, credit card bills, credit card 
offers, and blank checks contain account information that the 
thieves can use to assume your identity or gain access to your 
19
   METHODS METHODSmoney. The methods identity thieves use to steal mail are not 
sophisticated. Mail thieves will steal mail from your garbage, 
your mail box, or anywhere they can find your mail. They 
target neighborhoods by observing the time mail is delivered, 
the presence or absence of residents at a particular time, and 
if the red flag on the mailbox is raised. For more information 
about protecting your personal mail or mail fraud, call the U.S. 
Postal Inspection Service at 1-877-876-2455, and say “Mail Fraud.” 
 
 
• Place all outgoing mail in a secure, locked United States 
Postal Services mail box. 
• Install a locking mailbox for incoming mail or promptly 
remove incoming mail after delivery. 
• If traveling, contact your local post office to hold your mail 
or have someone you trust retrieve your mail. 
• Shred mail that contains personal information. 
• Monitor your monthly bills and financial statements. 
Contact the companies if you are missing your monthly 
bill or financial statement.
• To stop receiving junk mail, visit dmachoice.org or call 
1-888-567-8688. 
• To “Opt-Out” of unsolicited commercial mail, go to 
dmachoice.org or write to P. O. Box 643 Carmel, NY 
10512.
• To “Opt-Out” of pre-approved offers of credit or 
insurance, go to optoutprescreen.com or call 1-888-
567-8688 or write to P. O. Box 2033-A Rock Island, IL 
61204-2033.
   HELPFUL TIPS FOR PREVENTING  
MAIL FRAUD20
   METHODSBelow are some of the common and well known scams 
perpetrated through the mail.
COMMON MAIL SCAMS
• Charity Fraud Scams, page 34
• Lottery/Sweepstakes Scams, page 27
• Inheritance Scam, page 25
The Bet ter Business Bureau advises that you consider the 
following to reduce the amount of mail you receive: 
• Putting your name into a free drawing box at trade shows 
or other events may generate more mail. Before dropping 
your name into the drawing box, ask what happens to your 
completed entry blank after the winner is announced. 
• When completing surveys/warranty slips that are included 
with your purchases, your information may be sold as 
marketing/sales leads lists. 
• Purchasing a national magazine subscription may be 
cheaper per issue than purchasing off the rack; however, 
your information may be sold to subsidize the cost of the 
subscription. 
• Call companies directly to remove your name from their 
mailing lists. 
 
 
PERSON-TO-PERSON
Person-to-person fraud is any face-to-face interaction with a 
scammer who uses dishonest methods to sell fraudulent products 
or services or to steal your information or money. Scammers use 21
   METHODS METHODStheir communication skills to gain your trust and elicit information 
from you. 
Often a person-to-person fraud starts through a free lunch or 
dinner seminar that involves props, fake documents, or the 
inappropriate solicitation of attendees to invest in a scam.  
• Give yourself time to research the person and the 
company before you invest. 
• Check the license or registration  of anyone who purports 
to be a professional. 
• Remember — it’s okay to say “no.” It can be really hard 
to say “no” to someone face-to-face. But it is your money 
and you have the right to protect it.
PHONE  
IDENTITY THEFT   
Scammers often use pay phones, cell phones, or Voice Over 
Internet Protocol (VoIP) to carry out their schemes and to scam 
their potential victims out of money or steal their personal 
information. For example, the targeted victims may receive a text 
or voice message that appears to be from a financial institution or 
bank asking the consumer to text back or call to confirm account 
information or other personal information. This type of scam is 
called “phishing” because the scammer is trying to “fish” for your 
information. The best way to handle “phishing” is to not respond. 
See page 52  for more information.  
   HELPFUL TIPS FOR PREVENTING  
PERSON-TO-PERSON FRAUD   ADVANCE FEE
22
   METHODS COMMON PHONE SCAMS
• Lottery/Sweepstakes Scams, page 27
• Identity Theft, page 51
• Nigerian Letter Scams ( also known as 419 Scam ), page 26    
 
 
• Do not respond to a text or call from an unknown number 
that is requesting personal account numbers, social 
security numbers or any other personal information. 
• Do not provide any personal information over the phone 
unless you initiated the call and are certain of who you 
contacted.   
• If the caller makes you feel uncomfortable, hang up the 
phone.  
• To reduce telemarketing calls on your home and cell 
phone, go to donotcall.gov or call 1-888-382-1222 or 
1-866-290-4236 (TTY). 
   HELPFUL TIPS FOR PREVENTING  
PHONE SCAMS23
   ADVANCE FEE ADVANCE FEE    METHODSADVANCE FEE 
FRAUD
Advance Fee Fraud is a scam where the 
victim believes paying an advanced fee 
will lead to a big windfall payment. It 
is also known as a confidence trick, in 
which the target or victim is persuaded 
to send small sums of money in 
advance in the hopes of realizing a 
much larger gain. 
Advance fee fraud tends to have some 
or all of the following characteristics:
• The proposals are unsolicited.   
• Urgency and secrecy of the deal. 
• Victim is asked to pay upfront 
fees for processing, legal 
expenses, taxes or government 
fees in order to get a large 
windfall such as an inheritance, 
lottery win, or bank account sum 
to be released to the victim. 
24
   ADVANCE FEE   
Learn to recognize these red flags: 
• You receive an offer from someone you do not know for 
a huge sum of money based on some outlandish story. 
• You are asked to provide money up front for a 
processing fee, legal costs, transfer fees or some other 
cost in order for you to receive a huge sum of money. 
• You are promised huge sums of money for little or no 
effort on your part.
• You are asked to provide your bank account number 
or other personal financial information, presumably to 
allow the sender to deposit money into it. 
• The request contains a sense of urgency. 
• The sender repeatedly requests confidentiality and 
secrecy. 
• The sender offers to send you photocopies of 
government certificates, banking information, or other 
“evidence” that their activity is legitimate (though the 
materials are forged).
• You receive an email from a distant country to which 
you have few or no ties.
• You receive an email with a lot of misspellings and 
stilted or poor English. 
• You receive an email that “begs” for help to get money 
“unstuck.”
RED FLAGS FOR ADVANCE FEE FRAUD25
   ADVANCE FEE ADVANCE FEE• If you get an email from an unknown long lost relative, 
foreign diplomat or executive that needs your help to 
release millions of dollars to you, delete it. Do not reply.
• Do not make any advance payments upfront based on the 
hope of getting a big windfall. Scammers use the promise 
of future millions to distract you and separate you from 
your money. 
• Be careful when a letter states “Confidential” or “Top 
Secret.” Unless you actually work for the CIA or in that 
kind of business, this email is probably part of a scam. 
• Do not provide your personal information to strangers 
over the Internet.
• Do not click on attachments or links in suspicious emails.
• If you’ve been scammed, call and report it to your 
local police department, the DCCA Office of Consumer 
Protection at (808) 586-2630, and the FBI at  
(808) 566-4300. 
INHERITANCE SCAM
An inheritance scam is a type of Advance Fee Fraud and may 
also expose you to identity theft. Scammers email or somehow 
distribute a story about how a fictional individual—often with 
the same last name as the victim—died without heirs in remote 
parts of the world. If the recipient replies to the solicitation, the 
scammer will tell the victim to send money in advance to pay for 
legal fees, bribes, processing fees or other expenses in exchange 
for a large inheritance. The scammer may also attempt to obtain
   HELPFUL TIPS FOR PREVENTING  
ADVANCE FEE FRAUD  26
   ADVANCE FEEcopies of the victim’s personal information, identification cards, 
financial account information, and other information, which can be 
used to forge bank drafts, empty the victim’s bank account, obtain 
credit under the victim’s name, or commit other acts of identity 
theft. The scammer may even send a fake check to the victim. 
But in reality, the victim will never receive the inheritance and will 
lose all the money he or she advanced.  
Also known as the “Nigerian” Letter Scam
A Foreign Money Transfer scam combines the threat of 
impersonation fraud with a variation of an Advance Fee Fraud, in 
which an email or letter mailed from a foreign country offers the 
recipient the “opportunity” to share in a percentage of millions of 
dollars that the scammer, a self-proclaimed government official, 
royalty, or business executive, is trying to transfer illegally out of 
the foreign country.
Many people have fallen for this scam that was popularized by 
scams originating from Nigeria. The victims send an advance 
amount of money to help get the ‘illegal funds’ out of the foreign FOREIGN MONEY TRANSFER SCAM
Request for Urgent Business Relationship
r_okam@0000/nigeriagov.net
We are top officials of the Federal Government contract 
review panel who are interested in importation of goods into our country with funds which are presently trapped in Nigeria. In order to commence this business we solicit your assistance to enable us to transwer info your account the said tapped funds... 27
   ADVANCE FEE ADVANCE FEEFOREIGN MONEY TRANSFER SCAMcountry. They are lured into the scam with the promise that the 
scammer will give them a share of a very large payment from 
these illegal funds, a sum far greater than the fee the victims 
have to advance. In reality, there is no payout. Victims lose the 
money they sent and receive nothing in return. Victims also open 
themselves up to identity theft, having sent personal information 
to the scammers. Once victims become involved, they are fearful 
of having illegally assisted the scammer. If this has happened 
to you, don’t let fear prevent you from taking steps to protect 
yourself or others. Report the fraud. 
 
A typical lottery scam begins with an unexpected notification 
through email, text, postal mail, or fax that claims you have won 
a large sum of money or prize in a lottery. The target of the scam 
is usually directed to keep the notice confidential and to contact 
a “claims agent.” After contacting the agent, the target of the 
scam will be asked to pay “processing fees” or “transfer charges” so that the winnings can be distributed. The victim pays the fees 
but never receives any lottery or sweepstakes payment. Many 
email lottery or sweepstakes scams illegally use the names of 
legitimate lottery organizations.
LOTTERY OR SWEEPSTAKES SCAM28
   ADVANCE FEEAccording to the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, thousands of 
U.S. citizens have lost millions of dollars to fraudulent foreign 
lottery scams. Beware of solicitation by phone, mail, fax, or 
email asking you to participate in a lottery. Avoid companies that 
offer the convenient purchase of lottery tickets, with promises of 
unbelievable odds and high winnings.
No Hawaii State public official, in his or her official capacity, 
will authenticate any prizes or sweepstakes.
 
 
CONGRATULATIONS! You have won ONE  
MILLION FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND UNITED 
STATES DOLLARS (U.S. $1,500,000.00)!
Your prize money is in the wire system of our payee 
bank inured with your winning. You must contact your Claim Agent, Mrs. Jane Smith, without delay for immediate processing of your winnings to your nominated bank account. FREE LOTTO LOTTERY  
P.O. Box 00000  
Kingston, Jamaica JMAAW003
Yours Sincerely,
Mr. John DoeMr. John Doe29
   ADVANCE FEE ADVANCE FEELOTTERIES AND SWEEPSTAKES
• Legitimate sweepstakes and lotteries don’t 
require you to pay processing fees or taxes 
in order to claim your prize.
• Legitimate offers clearly disclose terms and conditions of 
the contest. 
• Purchasing foreign lottery tickets is illegal. United States 
law prohibits mailing payments to purchase any ticket, 
share, or chance in a foreign lottery.
• Foreign lottery solicitations sent to addresses in the 
United States do not come from foreign government 
agencies. They come from scammers.
• In some cases, the soliciting company uses high-
pressure telemarketing techniques to obtain credit 
card account numbers. Once credit card numbers have 
been obtained, the theives often make unauthorized 
transactions. Do not give out your credit card number to 
claim a prize. 
WHAT TO  DO
The next time you receive a phone call, text, email or letter  
about being a winner in a contest, remember the following: 
• If notified by mail, check disclosed terms and conditions 
of the contest. 
• If notified by mail, check the postmark on the envelope. 
If it was sent at a bulk rate, it is unlikely that you’ve won 
a big prize. 
   CONSUMER FRAUD
30
   ADVANCE FEE• Do not send any check or money order by overnight 
delivery or courier to claim your prize. 
• Do not wire transfer funds to claim your prize.
• Do not be deceived by endorsements from well-known 
celebrities that fraudulent promoters may use to elicit 
confidence in their offer.  
• Do a simple Internet search to find out more about 
the company, its rules and any online complaints. Try 
typing the company’s name and the word “scam” in the 
Internet search to see what kinds of scams or issues 
others have been experiencing. 
• Be skeptical when asked to attend a sales meeting to 
win a prize. 
• For help, call the Better Business Bureau Fraud Hotline 
on Oahu at (808) 628-3950 or toll-free from the 
neighbor islands at 1-888-333-1593 for more information.
• Report fraud to your local police deparment, the DCCA 
Office of Consumer Protection at (808) 586-2630 and 
the FBI at (808) 566-4300.31
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUD    ADVANCE FEE  
 COMMON 
CONSUMER 
FRAUDS
The following section covers a vast 
range of common consumer frauds 
from construction to charity fraud. We 
discuss the frauds and offer red flags, 
tips and where to go for help.
32
   CONSUMER FRAUDOVERPAYMENT, FAKE REFUND 
AND FAKE CHECK FRAUD
This type of scam is one of the most common and deceptive 
scams. It’s not surprising why so many people fall for this scam. 
The scam builds fake trust and it often starts when you try to sell 
something online (for example on Craigslist, eBay or any other 
legitimate online site) or you offer a service for hire (like a law 
firm). For example, you want to sell your phone for $500. The 
scammer pretends to be a buyer from far away. At this point, you 
have a normal amount of doubt - will the scammer pay?
The scammer puts your trust at ease by sending an official 
certified bank check, a cashier’s check, postal money order, 
travelers check or some other “safe” check to you from an actual 
foreign bank. In fact, he overpays and sends you $50,000 instead 
of $500. Now you trust him because he has not only paid, but 
overpaid by a lot. He says his check had a typo and asks you for a 
refund. In fact, he even offers to let you keep half of the $50,000 
as long as you send him $25,000 back.  
 
Victim’s Name
Fifty Thousand and 00/100Scammer Inc.  
1234 Aloha Ave  
Aloha State, HI 00000
Pay To $50,000
Memo:1234
Dear Victim, 
I overpaid $50,000 
for your $500 phone. 
Please send back my overpayment. 
 
Sincerely , 
Scammer . john aloha doe33
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUDTo retrieve the overpayment, the scammer asks you to deposit 
his $50,000 check in your account and to wire the agreed 
overpayment of $25,000 back to him. You deposit his check 
and you see $50,000 in your bank account, so you wire him the 
$25,000. You think you have received a windfall.
What you don’t know is that foreign checks take longer to clear in 
a US bank account. The money may appear to be in your account, 
but it has not actually been cleared by the foreign bank, yet. By 
the time the foreign bank tells your bank that the scammer’s 
$50,000 check was fraudulent, you have already wired $25,000 
out of your account. Your bank will not honor the fraudulent 
$50,000 check and will not pay you back for your $25,000 wire 
transfer. You are now out a lot of money. 
 
• Do not deposit a check for more than the agreed amount. 
If they overpaid, they need to cut you a new check and 
you can return the old check.
• Make a photocopy of the scammer’s check for your 
records before you deposit it or return it. 
• If you must provide a refund, do not do it through wire 
transfer. Foreign checks may take as long as six weeks, 
sometimes longer to clear. Call your bank to confirm full 
clearance. If the repayment amount is very large, it may 
make sense to contact the foreign bank itself and make 
sure the check is real. Send the foreign bank a fax or 
email copy of the check and let the foreign bank examine 
it.
   HELPFUL TIPS ON PREVENTING  
OVERPAYMENT, FAKE REFUND, AND  
FAKE CHECK FRAUD34
   CONSUMER FRAUDWHERE TO GET HELP:  
For more information on these scams:
1. Call the Federal Trade Commission 1-877-438-4338.
2.  Call the Better Business Bureau Fraud Hotline on Oahu 
at (808) 628-3950 or toll free from the neighbor islands 
at 1-888-333-1593.
If it happens to you, report it.
1. Call your Local Police Department 9-1-1.
2.  Call and report to the DCCA Office of Consumer 
Protection at (808) 586-2630.
3.  Call the Federal Bureau of Investigation (808) 566-4300.
CHARITY FRAUD
Charity Fraud is committed when a perpetrator creates a bogus 
fundraising operation often by exploiting a fake personal tragedy 
or taking advantage of natural disasters, such as a typhoon or 
earthquake. These unscrupulous scammers take advantage of our 
sympathies, goodwill and generosity. Charity fraud may also occur 
when a legitimate charity represents that funds will be used for 
purpose “X” but the money is used for other purposes. There are 
many good causes, so don’t let fraud dissuade you from donating. 
These tips will help ensure that your donations are put to good 
use. 
• Ask how your donation will be used. Make the caller be 
specific. If the answer is vague, be wary. You should be 
satisfied that your donation will support programs you 
think are worthwhile. 
   HELPFUL TIPS FOR AVOIDING  
CHARITY FRAUD35
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUD• Check registration. Every charity that solicits contributions 
in Hawaii must register with the Tax and Charities Division 
of the Department of the Attorney General (808) 586-
1480. Before you give, search the Attorney General 
registered charities database: ag.ehawaii.gov/charity . 
• Check the IRS website “EO Select Check” (http://www.irs.
gov/Charities-&-Non-Profits/Exempt-Organizations-Select-
Check). You can type in a charity name and see if its 
federal tax standing is valid. 
• Make sure you understand which organization wants your 
money. For example, police departments do not solicit 
money over the phone; police unions do. Also, some 
charities have names that may sound confusingly similar 
to another charity’s name.
• Ask who you are talking to. Get the name and write it 
down. If called by a police union, don’t be fooled into 
thinking you are talking to a police officer.
• If it is important to you, ask the caller if he or she is being 
paid to make the call.
• If it is important to you, ask what percentage of your 
donation goes towards administrative costs. There is 
no specific amount that is good or bad; it is up to you 
to decide your level of comfort. Financial reports for 
charities, filed with the Attorney General’s office by paid 
solicitors, indicate the percentage of donations that 
actually go to the charity. These reports are available on 
the Internet at ag.hawaii.gov/tax .
• Do not pay over the phone. Always ask for written 
information. But be careful; just because an organization 
sends you information, it doesn’t mean you should 
automatically be comfortable with it. Read the material 36
   CONSUMER FRAUDthoroughly. Does the organization clearly tell you what it 
does and precisely how it will spend your donation?
• Always donate by check, never with cash.
• Check for fundraising reports on the charity on the 
Attorney General’s website and with charity watchdogs 
such as:
• Call the organization back to verify the solicitor’s name 
and request. 
• Do a quick Internet search on the charity.
WHERE TO GET HELP:
 If you are scammed:
1. Call your Local Police Department 9-1-1.
2.  Call the Department of the Attorney General, Tax and    
Charities Division (808) 586-1480.
3.  Call the Federal Bureau of Investigation (808) 566-4300.
 
Construction and Home Repair Fraud involves situations where 
you have paid someone to do a job and he or she has either done 
work that is poor quality, left the work incomplete, or even done 
no work at all. In Hawaii, contractors must be licensed by the 
Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs (DCCA) Division 
of Professional and Vocational Licensing (PVL). The Regulated 
Industries Complaints Office (RICO) of the DCCA takes complaints 
regarding licensed and unlicensed contractors and investigates 
and enforces against fraud. RICO also provides consumers with 
a searchable database of complaints and a consumer resource 
center. Go to cca.hawaii.gov/rico  or call (808) 587-4272.o American Institute of Philanthropy ( charitywatch.org )
o Better Business Bureau’s Wise Giving Alliance ( give.org )
CONSTRUCTION AND HOME REPAIR37
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUDCONSTRUCTION AND HOME REPAIRYour home may be the single biggest investment you’ll ever 
make, so take your time, do your homework, and hire a licensed 
contractor.  
   RED FLAGS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND 
HOME REPAIR FRAUD
• Unlice nsed contractors may go door-to-door claiming 
they “just finished a job down the street,” or “have 
materials left over from another job.”  
• They may try to pressure you, offering a discounted 
price, but only if you act today. Remember, a great 
deal today will probably be just as good a deal 
tomorrow, so take the time you need to consider the 
situation carefully. 
• Unlicensed contractors may ask for cash payments, 
substantial down payments,  or for all of the money 
to be paid in advance. After they get the money, they 
may move a little dirt or, worse, demolish a wall or 
driveway, and never return. 
38
   CONSUMER FRAUDWHAT TO DO IF YOU ARE APPROACHED FOR HOME 
REPAIRS 
If someone knocks on your door or approaches you in your yard 
offering to perform home repairs such as fixing your roof, repaving 
your driveway, painting, or power-washing your house, be careful…    
Check with a friend or family member and ask yourself 
  1. Is the work really necessary?
  2. What exactly do I need done?
  3. Is this person licensed?  
Then, contact RICO’s Consumer Resource Center (808) 587-4272 
to see if the person is licensed and to check their complaint history.  
In Hawaii, a contractor is required to have a license to perform 
remodeling, repair, and yard work over $1,000 (or if a building 
permit is required). Remember, three bids or estimates, preferably 
from licensed contractors, may help you decide if the work they’re 
proposing is really necessary. 
HELPFUL TIPS FOR HIRING LICENSED 
CONTRACTORS
• Ask to see a picture I.D. so y ou know exactly who you’re 
dealing with.   
• Never pay all of the money up front and avoid paying in 
cash. Pay as you go by setting up a payment schedule 
that follows the amount of work completed. Get the 
payment schedule in writing. 
• Remember to check the complaint history of the contractor 
and check his/her license. You can do this by contacting 
the DCCA Consumer Resource Center (808) 587-4272 or 
visit their website at businesscheck.hawaii.gov .   
39
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUD• Know how much you can spend.  Fix your budget in 
advance and keep some in reserve to pay for changes or 
unanticipated costs.    
• Shop around. Get at least three bids or estimates. Make 
sure the bids are based on the same work and the same 
materials. If bid amounts vary significantly, ask why.    
• Ask for references. Call trade organizations or ask friends 
or relatives for referrals. Ask to see other projects the 
contractor has completed and to meet other clients. 
• Insist on a written contract. Among other things, a 
written contract should include the contractor’s license 
number, total cost, start and stop date, the work to 
be performed, and the materials to be used. Get any 
promises, guarantees or warranties in writing! 
• Make sure your project is in compliance with city 
and county codes. If building, electrical, or plumbing 
permits are required, ask the contractor who will be 
responsible for the permitting process. Know the risks 
and responsibilities of being an “owner-builder.”
• Monitor the job and keep good records. Keep a file with 
the contract, cancelled checks, and correspondence. 
Make sure any change orders are in writing.  
• Know who your subcontractors are and avoid liens. 
Request partial lien releases for partial payments made 
and a final lien release for final payments made. Make 
sure a notice of completion is published in a newspaper. 
• Do a thorough “walk-through” and take care of any 
“punch list” items immediately.40
   CONSUMER FRAUDAs always, be wary of any offers that require immediate cash 
payments on your part, and remember, if it sounds too good to 
be true, it probably is.
SOLAR PANELS/  
(PV) PANELS
The pursuit of installing photovoltaic (PV) panels on rooftops 
to cut down monthly electric bills remains popular, and 
unfortunately some are using this interest to take advantage of 
unsuspecting consumers.
Do not be afraid to ask many questions, and also double check 
with the utility company to verify that everything is in line with 
proper procedure. For more information, contact your utility 
company and the DCCA Division of Consumer Advocacy at (808) 
586-2800. 
 
HELPFUL TIPS WHEN INSTALLING PV PANELS
• Get Multiple Quotes. Try to get at least three or more 
quotes. Getting multiple quotes will help you get the 
best price, and allow you to determine who might be 
more knowledgeable and experienced in PV installations.  
It can give you a sense of who may be attempting to 
take advantage of you. 
• Understand All Terms. Once you get the contract 
in writing, make sure you understand all the terms 
before you sign. What’s being guaranteed? With so 
many components in a PV system, one part may be 
covered under warranty by one company, while another 
PHOTOVOLTAIC41
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUDis covered by a completely separate entity. Will the 
installation void your roofing warranty? You may want to 
double check with your roofer first. There are also a variety 
of financing options when it comes to PV. Leasing, power 
purchase agreements, and loans can look attractive on paper, but make sure you understand the costs involved.
• Size It Right. When purchasing a PV system, make sure 
you are not buying more panels than you really need to be 
cost effective. While not all companies will engage in such 
practices, understand the possibility of a seller boosting 
their profit margin by suggesting more panels than you 
actually need, or placing panels in areas that may not 
be cost effective because they are shaded. The National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) has an online 
calculator tool to help estimate the performance and cost 
of PV systems. (pvwatts.nrel.gov/).
• Hire a Licensed Contractor. Trying to cut costs by taking up 
an offer from an unlicensed worker is like playing with fire. 
Do it right and hire a reputable licensed contractor to avoid 
headaches. The DCCA, RICO office, is a great resource to 
check on contractor businesses and individuals. Go to  
cca.hawaii.gov/rico/business_online/ or give RICO a call at 
(808) 587-4272. 
• The Hawaii State Energy Office also publishes solar maps  
to help areas determine how many peak sun hours they 
can expect on a typical day. 500=5.8 hrs, 400=4.6 hrs, 
300=3.5 hrs. PHOTOVOLTAIC42
   CONSUMER FRAUD• Check with the Utility Company First.  The utility company may 
be unable to accept more PV customers in some areas at the 
moment, so double check that you are eligible to connect 
before you put any money down. While Oahu customers 
can check their area’s circuit to see if it is full through the 
Locational Value Map on HECO’s website (hawaiianelectric.
com/portal/site/heco/lvmsearch), it is advised that 
Here are samples of the Hawaii solar 
maps. If you would like to view them 
more closely, visit their website at 
energy.hawaii.gov/resources/hawaii-
state-energy-office-publications#solar43
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUDcustomers contact the utility company directly for the most 
up to date information. With growing popularity of PV 
installations, it is still possible that changes in penetration 
occur while preparing your application and you may 
miss the cutoff before your Net Energy Metering (NEM) 
agreement is approved. Contacting the utility company or 
submitting an application does not reserve your spot to 
interconnect. 
o Hawaiian Electric Company: (808) 543-4760, 
nem@heco.com
o Maui Electric Company: (808) 871-8461 ext. 
2455, meconem@mauielectric.com
o Hawaii Electric Light Company: (808) 969-0358, 
LVM@helcohi.com
• No One Has a Special Relationship with the Utility 
Company. If a contractor claims to have a special 
arrangement with the utility to get you interconnected, 
it is a lie. No individual or company has any advantage 
or agreement with the electric utilities company to jump 
the queue. Customers told information along these lines 
should be wary of the next tip below. 
• Do Not Hook Up Illegally. Some folks are telling customers 
it is okay to just go ahead and flip the switch on their 
PV systems without a proper NEM agreement in place 
with the utility company. This is not true and can be 
dangerous for your home, neighbors, and utility workers. 
The utility company is aware of “rogue” PV systems 
and is taking steps to crack down on customers that 
connect their systems without a proper NEM agreement. 
Customers in violation risk disconnection of electric service. 44
   CONSUMER FRAUDRENTAL SCAM
There are three general types of rental scams — fake landlord, 
fake tenant, and fake vacation rentals.
FAKE LANDLORD
A scammer advertises a high-end rental for below-market rent. A 
prospective tenant is asked to pay a deposit to secure the rental. 
The scammer disappears with the deposit, leaving the victim 
without a rental and without the deposit. 
FAKE TENANT
The victim, an innocent landlord, is looking to find a tenant, and 
the scammer poses as an interested tenant looking for a rental.
In one scenario, the scammer will send the landlord a check with 
an overpayment  asking the landlord to return the extra money 
to the scammer by money order or wire transfer. The victim sends 
a partial refund back not knowing that the initial overpayment 
check has either bounced or was a fake to begin with. The victim 
is left without money and without a tenant.
In another scenario, the scammer will send the landlord a check 
for the deposit. The scammer will then contact the landlord with 
a story about a death in the family or some other crisis and ask 
for a full refund to be wired back as soon as possible, before the 
initial check has cleared.
The scam is that the initial check will never clear and the victim 
who has sent that overpayment or refund by wire transfer will 
not be getting any money back. These two scenarios are classic 
examples of Overpayment, Fake Refund and Fake Check Fraud. 
For more information about Overpayment, Fake Refund and Fake 
Check Fraud, see page 32. 45
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUDFAKE VACATION RENTAL
In this scam, the victim is usually a non-resident who is planning 
to vacation in Hawaii. Typically, the scammer posts offers for luxury 
rentals on various websites that list vacation rentals. The offers 
often include idyllic beach front settings, seclusion, and easy access 
to visitor attractions. The “hook” is the below market cost of the 
rental. Of course, a security deposit is required and must be paid in 
advance. Our vacation visitor makes payments in advance but when 
our visitor arrives, he or she soon discovers that it’s a scam. The 
island retreat either does not exist or is inhabited by its residents, 
who have no intention of renting their home and have not 
authorized anyone to make such an offer. The visitor has not only 
lost the money but now needs to find lodgings for his or her family.  
HELPFUL TIPS FOR AVOIDING RENTAL SCAMS
For Renters :
• Before renting, someone you trust should physically go and 
check out the property you’re interested in renting.
• Before renting, do a quick online search to make sure the 
renter is who he says he is and check out the property. 
Many times, if you check out the address online, you will 
find that the property is for sale, not for rent. 
46
   CONSUMER FRAUD• If advance payment is required, ask to use a credit card 
or a service like PayPal, both of which offer some fraud 
protection. 
For Landlords:
• Always inform your bank when a check you are cashing is 
from someone you do not know before you deposit it to 
your account.
• Never wire money as an overpayment or refund.
• Do not refund deposits until you are certain the original 
check has cleared. Call your bank to confirm.
WHERE TO GET HELP:
 For help and to report fraud:
1. Call your Local Police Department 9-1-1
2.  Call the Federal Bureau of Investigation (808) 566-4300
SECURITY ALARM SYSTEM FRAUD
A security alarm system can provide consumers with a sense 
of well-being, but the opposite is true when consumers feel 
pressured into buying an alarm system without first considering 
important information such as installation and permitting 
requirements.    
If someone comes to your door offering to sell you a new alarm 
system or to change alarm companies, think before you buy. Get 
a copy of any alarm monitoring agreement they’re offering and 
review it carefully. Remember, a contractor’s license is required in 
Hawaii to install low-voltage alarms and to perform electrical work. 
For more information on how to check a license or complaint 
history, or to report fraud, call DCCA RICO at (808) 587-4272.47
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUDHEARING AID DEALERS AND 
FITTERS
A hearing aid dealer and fitter is required to be licensed by the 
Professional Vocational Licensing (PVL) Division of the DCCA to 
measure your hearing and to help you select, adapt, or sell you a 
hearing aid. A medical examination by a physician (preferably a 
physician who specializes in diseases of the ear) is required. For 
more information on how to check a license or complaint history, 
and to report fraud, call DCCA RICO at (808) 587-4272.  
CAR REPAIRS AND SALES
A motor vehicle repair shop must be licensed by DCCA PVL Division 
to repair motor vehicles, so be wary if someone knocks on your 
door or approaches you in a parking lot offering to fix your car. 
While auto body shops do not require licensing, other auto repair 
shops do. When it comes to non-auto body repairs, look for an 
established shop with a licensed mechanic. For more information 
on how to check a license or complaint history, or to report fraud, 
call DCCA Consumer Resource Center at (808) 587-4272.
The same goes for car sales. Generally, a PVL motor vehicle sales 
license is required to sell three or more cars each year. Be wary if 
someone approaches you asking about buying your car or selling 
you a new one.  
 
48
   CONSUMER FRAUDUTILITY COMPANY SCAMS
Utility company scams involve scammers impersonating utility 
company employees threatening to disconnect service unless the 
victim pays or provides personal information over the phone or 
in-person. When in doubt, contact the utilities company (such 
as electric, water, gas, phone, cable, etc.) directly to verify the 
request. Make payments directly to the utility company and keep 
a receipt as proof of payment. 
PURCHASING ONLINE
One common online scam involves the sale of products at a 
discount. The seller advertises high value goods at low cost. 
The text of the ad instructs buyers to contact the seller directly, 
outside of the website, at a Yahoo or Gmail type of email account. 
When contact is made, the seller provides a story about his 
problems receiving payment via a third party payment service, 
such as credit cards or PayPal and instead insists on having the 
money wired. The allure is that the product is priced well below 
market value and is a great bargain, for example, a $1,000 item 
may be advertised for $500. However, if the buyer proceeds 
and wires the money, it will be gone forever and the buyer may 
receive a faulty product or no product at all. 
49
   CONSUMER FRAUD CONSUMER FRAUDMany people are not aware that a professional or vocational 
license is required before you can work in certain industries. The 
Professional and Vocational Licensing (PVL) Division of the DCCA 
licenses more than 48 different professional or vocational industries.  
These industries are the kind that affect the health, safety, and 
welfare of Hawaii’s residents. See the chart on page 50 . 
The Regulated Industries Complaints Office (RICO) of the DCCA 
investigates and prosecutes allegations of professional misconduct 
by licensees and unlicensed activity. 
RICO offers the licensing information and complaint history for 
professionals in the following industries. For help, go to cca.hawaii.
gov/rico . To report fraud in any of these 48 areas, call  
(808) 587-4272.Check a Professional License and 
Consumer Complaint History for  
more than 48 Industries• Do not wire money.
• Avoid doing business with anyone who wants to operate 
outside of a monitored website. 
• Check history, seller and buyer rating online before making 
a purchase. 
• Identify the seller and check their reputation with the Better 
Business Bureau. 
• Evaluate the different payment options such as credit card, 
escrow services, Pay Pal or Cash on Delivery (C.O.D.). 
• Be cautious if the seller insists on payment by wire transfer, 
cashier’s check or money order.
   HELPFUL TIPS WHEN PURCHASING ONLINE   IDENTITY THEFT
50
   CONSUMER FRAUDLicensed Professionals Regulated by PVL and RICO
•  Accountancy 
•  Activity Desk
•  Acupuncture
•  Athletic Trainers
•  Architects and  
Landscape Architect
•  Barbering and  
Cosmetology
•  Boxing
•  Cemetery and  
Pre-Need Funeral
•  Chiropractor
•  Collection Agency
•  Commercial Employment   
Agencies 
•  Condominium Property Regimes
•  Contractor 
•  Dentist and Dental Hygienist
•   Dispensing Optician
•  Electrician and Plumber
•  Electrologist
•  Elevator Mechanic
•  Employment Agency
•  Engineer 
•  Hearing Aid Dealer and Fitter
•  Marriage and  
Family Therapist
•  Mental Health Counselor
•  Mixed Martial Arts Contests
•  Motor Vehicle Industry•  Motor Vehicle Repair
•  Naturopathic Medicine
•  Nurse Aide
•  Nursing
•  Nursing Home Administrator
•  Occupational Therapist
•  Opticians, Dispensing 
•  Optometry
•  Osteopathy
•  Pest Control
•  Pharmacy and Pharmacist
•  Physical Therapy
•  Port Pilot
•  Private Detective and Guard
•  Psychology
•  Real Estate
•  Real Estate Appraiser,  
Brokers, Salespersons, 
Commission, Education, Schools & Instructors
•  Respiratory Therapist 
•  Social Worker
•  Speech Pathology and 
Audiology
•  Subdivision
•  Time Share
• Travel Agency
• Uniform Athlete Agents
• Veterinary Medicine51
   IDENTITY THEFT IDENTITY THEFT    CONSUMER FRAUDIDENTITY THEFT
Identity theft happens when someone 
steals your identity by stealing your 
personal information.  The thieves may 
use your personal information to empty 
bank accounts, open credit cards and 
make charges to those cards, take out 
loans against your mortgage, or even 
give your name during an arrest.  It causes havoc with your finances, your credit history and reputation. 
52
   IDENTITY THEFTHOW DO THIEVES GET YOUR 
INFORMATION?
As we discussed earlier in this Guide under Methods ( see page 10), 
scams like identity theft take place through all four communication 
methods:  the Internet, phone, mail and person-to-person contact.  
Below are some of the ways we inadvertently “give” our information 
to thieves.
INTERNET PHISHING
This term plays on the homonym “fishing.” Internet phishing 
refers to when identity thieves try to fish out personal information 
through communications with the victim. For example, they may 
send an email falsely claiming to come from a well-known bank in 
an attempt to get the victim to give out sensitive information like 
account numbers and passwords. The email may direct victims to 
a website to “update” their information when in reality, the bogus 
website is actually collecting all the information for the identity 
thieves to use.
Remember, any of the Internet scams we discuss in this Guide can 
open you up to phishing scams and identity theft. For example, if 
you are emailing with someone and get caught in an Overpayment 
Scam ( see page 32) or an Advance Fee Scam ( see page 23), you 
could also end up exposing your bank account numbers or other 
personal information that could lead to identity theft.
53
   IDENTITY THEFT IDENTITY THEFTSOCIAL MEDIA
Phising scams also occur on social media 
sites. The scam takes on a different 
approach as social media sites involve 
public communication or, at least, group 
communication. Some thieves may gather 
information from your Facebook page or 
other social media page and take on your persona from there. But 
often, in order to get the personal information needed for stealing 
funds, the thieves use the social media relationships as an entry 
way. After a relationship is established on the social media site, the 
ongoing relationship may move to email, texting, phone or even 
person-to-person contact which is when the real phishing begins.  
MAIL
With mail, the problem tends to be less about phishing and more 
about thieves finding ways to gain access to your mail. They may 
steal mail from your mailbox or even go through your garbage to 
find bills containing your account number, social security number or 
other important information. 
54
   IDENTITY THEFTPHONE
There has been an increase of phone “phishing” where the thief 
finds some basic information, like a name connected to a phone 
number and uses it to try to get money or information from 
the target victim. The thief calls the number and immediately 
pretends to know the person on the other end of the phone and 
immediately asks for help. For example, the thief might start 
out by saying, “Aunty Kalei, this is Keola. I am so glad I got you 
on the phone. I’ve been trying to reach you because my son is 
really sick.” When the caller asks “who?” the thief responds with 
disbelief and continues to play the part until he can elicit account 
numbers or other important information from “Aunty Kalei.”
More traditionally, thieves will pretend to be from an established 
company like a well-known bank. They call the victim to “update” 
information such as account number, birthdate, social security 
number and other key pieces of information. The thieves may 
even ask the victim to update their information, “through an 
automated response system” when in reality, the thieves are 
collecting the information through the phony automated system.
55
   IDENTITY THEFT IDENTITY THEFTPERSON-TO-PERSON
In this approach, a scammer meets face-to-face with the target 
victim. The scammer may be impersonating an agent from a well-
known company and may even be a friend or acquaintance of the 
victim. The scammer may pretend to be selling something such 
as group insurance or securities and may claim that he “needs” 
the victim’s bank account numbers and social security number to 
“process” the paperwork. Be wary.  
            H ELPFUL TIPS TO PROTECT YOURSELF  
AGAINST IDENTITY THEFT
Internet  • Do NOT click on email attachments from 
strangers or from any suspicious email. 
  • Do NOT click on links that lead you to update 
your information on another page. If you want 
to update your information for an online account, 
open your regular browser and type in the official 
website for your account.
  • Delete emails from strangers and any other shady 
emails. Someone might be pretending to know 
you. 
Mail  • Shred mail with personal information before you 
throw it away. 
  • Keep mail with personal information in a secure 
place. 
  • Put a lock on your mailbox. 
56
   IDENTITY THEFT  • Mail important letters directly at the post office or 
through secure post boxes, not through office mail 
drops, doormen or unsecured mailboxes. 
Person 
to 
Person • Never fill in forms with personal information and 
hand them to a stranger without checking the 
person’s background. Is that person actually 
employed by that bank, securities firm or 
insurance company? Are they registered to do this 
business in Hawaii? Have they been charged with 
fraud? Search online to research the stranger’s 
background.  
  • Ask to leave out key information. For example, 
why would they need your bank account 
information to sell you insurance? Leave it out. If 
the stranger is persistent, try to find out why or 
just walk away.  
  • Get written copies of anything you sign.   
Phone  • No established company will call or text you and 
ask for private information over the phone. If 
someone says they are calling from a bank or 
financial institution to update your information, ask 
for their name, employee ID and extension. Tell 
them you will call them back at the bank’s official 
number and have the bank connect you to them.  
Or even better, just hang up. 
57
   IDENTITY THEFT IDENTITY THEFTWHAT KINDS OF INFORMATION 
ARE MOST IMPORTANT TO 
PROTECT?
• Social security numbers
• Bank account numbers
• Investment account numbers
• Mother’s maiden name
• Full birthdate (month/day/year)
• Credit card numbers and security codes
• Home address
• Medicaid and Medicare numbers
  
WHAT SHOULD YOU DO IF YOU 
THINK YOUR INFORMATION 
HAS BEEN LOST OR STOLEN?
• Place a fraud alert on your credit file and see page 58 for 
instructions.
• Monitor your accounts for unusual activity. Examine your 
bank and credit card statements.
• Get a free copy of your credit report and look for unusual 
activity. For example, check to see if new credit lines or 
mortgages have been opened in your name without your 
knowledge.
• See page 61 on how to get a FREE credit report.
58
   IDENTITY THEFTWHERE TO GET HELP:
1. Call your local Police Department 9-1-1.  
2.  Call D CCA Office of Co nsumer Protection (808) 586-2630.
3.  Call the Federal Trade Commission 1-877-438-4338.  
IF YOU ARE A VICTIM OF 
IDENTITY THEFT
 
PREVENTION IS YOUR MAIN DEFENSE from becoming a victim of 
identity theft. However, if you become a victim of identity theft:
1. Place a 90-day Fraud Alert on your credit file by 
contacting the three companies below. 
2.  Correct errors by contacting your creditors and ask 
creditors to call you before opening any new accounts or 
changing existing accounts. While you’re at it, request 
copies of your credit report from these same three 
companies and review the credit report carefully for 
errors. 
 
Phone: 1-800-525-6285  
Website: equifax.com  
Mail: Fraud Consumer Fraud Division  
P.O. Box 740256  
Atlanta, GA 30374  
 
Phone: 1-888-397-3742  
Website: experian.com/fraud  
Mail: National Consumer Assistance  
P.O. Box 2002  
Allen, TX 75013
59
   IDENTITY THEFT IDENTITY THEFTPhone : 1-800-680-7289  
Website: transunion.com  
Mail: Fraud Victim Assistance Department  
P.O. Box 6790  
Fullerton, CA 92834
3.  Close any financial accounts or credit cards that have been 
tampered with or established fraudulently. 
4.  File a police report to help you with creditors who may 
want proof of the crime or file a miscellaneous publication 
(misc. pub.). 
Hawaii (Big Island) Police Department  
Phone : (808) 935-3311  
Honolulu Police Department  
Phone : 9-1-1 (request non-emergency) 
Email: policereport@hawaii.gov  
Kauai Police Department  
Phone : (808) 241-1711  
Maui Police Department  
Phone : (808) 244-6400   
5.  Make sure to obtain the police report number and copy of 
report if possible. 
6.  Go to ftc.gov to file a complaint with the Federal Trade 
Commission and complete the Identity Theft Complaint 
Form and Identity Theft Affidavit.  
 
60
   IDENTITY THEFTIF YOUR CHILD IS A VICTIM OF 
IDENTITY THEFT 
1. Do the same thing for your minor child that you would 
do for yourself in the previous section. 
2.  But also contact each of the three nationwide credit 
reporting companies. 
• Send a letter asking the companies to remove 
all accounts, inquiries and collection notices 
associated with the child’s name or personal 
information.
• Explain that the child is a minor (under 18 
years old) and include a copy of the Uniform 
Minor’s Status Declaration, which you can find at 
consumer.ftc.gov . 
IF YOU ARE A VICTIM OF TAX 
IDENTITY THEFT 
1. Contact the Internal Revenue Service.  
IRS Identity Protection Specialized Unit 1-800-908-4490
• Report the fraud.
• Send a copy of your police report or an IRS ID 
Theft Affidavit Form 14039 and proof of your 
identity, such as a copy of your Social Security 
card, driver’s license or passport.
2. Update your files. 
• Record the dates you made calls or sent letters.
• Keep copies of letters in your files. 61
   IDENTITY THEFT IDENTITY THEFT3. Other steps  to repair identity theft: 
• After you contact the IRS, It’s important to 
limit the potential damage from identity theft.
- Put a fraud alert on your credit 
reports. 
- Order your credit reports. 
- Create an Identity Theft Report by 
filing an identity theft complaint 
with the FTC at ftc.gov and filing a 
police report with your local police 
department.  
How to get your FREE Credit Report 
You c an call the three credit reporting companies or visit their 
websites to obtain your free credit report. You are entitled to 
one free credit report per year from each of the three credit 
bureaus listed above (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion). 
Another option is to contact the Annual Credit Report Request 
Service. This service is a centralized service for consumers to 
request free  annual credit reports. 
ANNUAL CREDIT REPORT REQUEST SERVICE  
1-877-322-8228 or annualcreditreport.com62
   FINANCIAL FRAUDFINANCIAL FRAUD
NATIONALLY, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS 
and millions of consumers are victims of 
financial fraud. 
In 2014, according to the Federal Trade 
Commission, Hawaii ranked 43rd in 
the nation in the number of fraud and 
other complaints per the size of our 
population. 
The following are different types of 
financial frauds. This section will help 
you recognize the fraud before it 
happens, provide tips on preventing 
fraud and direct you to where to get 
help. 
63
   FINANCIAL FRAUD FINANCIAL FRAUDCREDIT CARD FRAUD
Credit card fraud can take two forms: 
1. The perpetrator obtains credit card information and 
uses it to charge items, often via online purchases, 
to another person’s credit card account. Gas station 
charges are popular too.
2. The seller is tricked into releasing merchandise or 
services to the scammer, believing that a credit card 
account will provide payment for goods or services. The 
seller later learns that the credit card was fake and the 
amount due will not be paid, or the payment received 
will be reclaimed by the credit card’s issuing bank.
CREDIT/DEBIT CARD SKIMMING
The ease and convenience of using our credit or debit cards at 
the gas station, ATMs, restaurants, etc. can expose us to fraud. 
Consumers today need to be alert when they hand off or swipe 
their credit cards or debit cards. The threat we are seeing at 
many gas stations today with credit and debit card users is called 
skimming. Skimming involves a modified swiping machine with a  
card reader that has been illegally set up to steal information from 
the card’s magnetic strip and record a PIN number if it is input. 
Source: Privacy Sense. Debit and Credit Card Skimming. Retrieved from 
http://www.privacysense.net/debit-and-credit-card-skimming/ 
64
   FINANCIAL FRAUD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Source: O’Donnell, Andy. How to Avoid Credit Card Skimmers. Retrieved from 
http://netsecurity.about.com/od/securityadvisorie1/a/How-To-Avoid-Credit-Card-Skimmers.htm
  
  
HELPFUL TIPS TO KEEP YOUR CREDIT AND 
DEBIT ACCOUNTS SECURE
• Sign your cards as soon as they arrive. 
• Carry your cards separately from your wallet and keep a 
record of your account numbers, their expiration dates, 
and the phone number and address of each  card-issuing 
bank in a secure place.
• Keep an eye on your card during any transaction.
• Save receipts to compare with billing statements. Keep 
receipts in a secure place and destroy them when no 
longer needed.
• Open bills promptly and reconcile accounts monthly. 
Report any questionable charges promptly and preferably 
in writing to the card company.
•    Notify card companies in advance of a change in address.
HELPFUL TIPS TO AVOID SKIMMING
• Review your bank statements .
• Inspect the card reader and the area near the PIN pad. 
• Look at other nearby gas pumps or ATM card readers to 
see if they match the one you are using.
• Avoid using your PIN number at the gas pump.
65
   FINANCIAL FRAUD FINANCIAL FRAUD• Use a credit card and not a debit card for online 
purchases since many credit cards offer online fraud 
protection. Credit card charges can be disputed. 
INSURANCE FRAUD
Insurance is an important tool that helps consumers manage risk 
when it comes to their health, home and belongings. Unfortunately, 
some insurance agents try to take advantage of consumers by 
selling false policies, overpromising in order to secure business, or 
stealing money and personal information. 
BEWARE OF BUNDLING
Consu mers need to be aware of the types of false claims made by 
insurance agents. One type of practice consumers should be aware 
of is known as “conditional sales” or “bundling.” It is illegal for an 
insurance agent to tell their clients that they are unable to write 
a policy unless another plan is purchased. Consumers have the 
option of buying their policies separately from various agents, and 
are not required to purchase multiple policies in order to secure 
coverage with one insurance agent or company. 
 
HELPFUL T IPS TO PRE VENT INSURANCE FRAUD  
• Tak e your time. 
• Ask questions.
• Request copies of signed documents. 
• Get a second opinion and estimate from another seller.
66
   FINANCIAL FRAUDWHERE TO GET HELP
Consumers who feel that they have been taken advantage of 
should contact the DCCA Hawaii Insurance Division’s Investigations 
Branch at (808) 586-2790.  For more information about Hawaii’s 
insurance industry and tools to help protect against fraud, visit  
cca.hawaii.gov/ins.
HEALTH INSURANCE FRAUD
Since the advent of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as 
Obamacare, there are additional opportunities for agents to take 
advantage of consumers. When purchasing a health insurance 
policy, always remember to buy directly from an approved and 
licensed health insurance carrier in Hawaii or the Hawaii Health 
Connector. To check if a company or agent is licensed, visit 
insurance.ehawaii.gov/hils. 
Supplemental or limited coverage plans advertised on the radio, 
television or by mail do not satisfy the requirement to carry health 
insurance under the ACA. Fraudulent insurance agents may try to 
trick consumers into giving personal information for this type of 
coverage over the phone or in the mail. Beware.
WHERE TO GET HELP
Consumers that feel like they may have purchased a false health 
insurance policy or have any questions should contact the DCCA 
Hawaii Insurance Division’s Health Investigations Branch at  
(808) 586-2804. 
HOMEOWNER & AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE FRAUD
Insurance companies can also be victims when it comes to 
insurance fraud. When this happens, consumers feel the impact 67
   FINANCIAL FRAUD FINANCIAL FRAUDbecause their insurance premiums increase. Since insurance is a 
tool used to help mitigate loss by creating a risk pool, the addition 
of fraudulent claims causes insurance premiums to go up in order 
to help the company cover the costs. Insurance fraud practices 
include, but are not limited to, falsifying a theft, exaggerating 
property damage, obtaining a policy after a loss has occurred and 
making a claim, and falsifying property receipts. 
Reducing the number of fraudulent claims helps to drive down 
the cost of homeowner and automobile policies in the long run. 
Consumers can help protect themselves and others by reporting 
suspicious claims to their insurance company and the DCCA Hawaii 
Insurance Division’s Insurance Fraud Investigations Branch at  
(808) 587-7416.  
INVESTMENT FRAUD
Investment fraud happens through the sale or solicitation of 
securities, Ponzi schemes and other investments. Often the fraud 
involves financial advisers or sales agents persuading a target to 
make investments based on misleading or dishonest information. 
The appeal of the fraud usually involves a promise of higher-than-
market interest, and a low or no-risk guarantee. It is important to 
remember that all legitimate investments have risk — the reality 
is that higher returns involve higher risk and a greater chance of 
losing your money. Beware of any promises to the contrary. 
Con artists know that investors want to make a lot of money 
without risk. They know everyone wants to feel safe, secure and 
lucky while bringing in high returns. Con artists play on this fantasy. 
Don’t fall for it.  68
   FINANCIAL FRAUD   
 
 
• Always understand the investment before investing. If 
you don’t understand, don’t buy.
• Ask questions, find out about commissions, fees and lock-
up periods.
• Don’t sign blank documents.
• If it sounds too good to be true, it is. Beware.
• You should always be mindful of whether an investment is 
suitable for your goals and needs. 
• Call the DCCA Office of the Securities Commissioner at 
587-2267 to see if the investment adviser, representative, 
broker-dealer, agent or the investment is properly 
registered or go to brokercheck.org to check background 
and complaint history.
PONZI SCH EMES    
WHAT IS A PONZ I SCHEME
The “Ponzi scheme,” named after the 1920’s swindler Charles Ponzi, 
is a ploy where earlier investors are paid with funds of subsequent 
investors. In a Ponzi scheme, claims of underlying investments are 
bogus; the whole scheme depends on the money coming in from 
new investors. Very few, if any, actual physical assets or financial 
investments exist to generate any true returns. As the number of 
total investors grows and the supply of potential new investors 
dwindles, there is not enough money to pay off early investors.  
A Ponzi scheme’s bubble bursts when the con artist simply 
cannot keep up with the required payments. In many cases, the 
perpetrator has spent investment money on personal expenses, 
depleting funds and accelerating the bursting of the bubble.  HELPFUL TIPS FOR PREVENTING  
INVESTMENT FRAUD69
   FINANCIAL FRAUD FINANCIAL FRAUD
EXAMPLE: THE MADOFF CASE
Bernard Madoff perpetrated a multi-billion dollar scam that 
defrauded investors around the world for decades until his 
arrest in December 2008. Madoff investors were told they were 
getting consistent and steady annual returns through elaborate, 
fabricated account statements made to convince investors 
that their money had been placed in actual investments. The 
investments “appeared” legitimate, especially to people receiving 
small payments here and there. But in reality, there were no 
actual investments and no actual returns. Madoff paid the initial 
investor’s “returns” with money provided him by a steady flow of 
new investors. In 2008, as the global economy began to decline, 
large numbers of Madoff investors needed money and began 
asking to cash in their investments. That’s when Madoff’s Ponzi 
scheme burst – he did not have assets or money to cover his 
investors’ requests for payment and new investor money was hard 
to be found in the economic downturn.A con artist lures investors  
by offering no risk and high  
return investments.Earlier investors are paid with funds 
given by later investors, rather than from 
profits earned. 
Since investors have received payouts, 
they invest more or encourage others 
(friends/family) to invest too.The scheme collapses when the con artist 
simply cannot keep up with the required 
payments. In many cases, the scammer 
runs off with the money. 1) 2)
3) 4)70
   FINANCIAL FRAUD     
  
• Beware of promises of unrealistic returns. This is perhaps 
the easiest way to spot a Ponzi scheme. Any legitimate 
investment involves risk. Guarantees of unrealistically 
high returns are a clear warning sign. But delivering 
consistent 10 percent returns for decades, as Madoff 
purported to do, is unrealistic too, if not impossible. 
Beware of any deal that is “too good to be true.” 
• Diversify – everything.  Don’t put all of your eggs in one 
basket. Diversify not only your assets but also your 
money managers, accounts, and financial institutions. 
Spreading your money around will limit your exposure 
to the financial problems of any one institution. Victims 
in the Madoff case who were financially stable after the 
scam were the ones who invested only a percentage of 
their assets with Madoff, not their entire life savings. 
• Don’t rely on reputation or word of mouth alone.  Con 
artists are experts at building networks of trust, making 
investors think they are getting an “inside” track on a hot 
investment. Many of Madoff’s victims invested because 
they were part of a network of trust within the Jewish 
community. Madoff was considered a prominent and well- 
regarded member of that community. Be alert to any 
sales pitch that plays on your emotions, including your 
feelings of trust and friendship. 
• Understand the investment. Ask detailed questions 
about the investments and those selling the investments, and get clear and direct answers before you invest. 
Don’t let an “inside” tip override careful judgment. In 
the Madoff case, clients were told that the investment 
strategy was proprietary and would not be disclosed. If 
the investments are not explained to you in detail, walk  
HELPFUL TIPS TO PROTECT AGAINST  
PONZI SCHEMES71
   FINANCIAL FRAUD FINANCIAL FRAUDaway. If you don’t understand an investment, don’t 
invest. 
• Auditors.  Check the auditor, or ask your financial 
adviser to check the auditor of any fund or company 
for you. Auditors sign and certify financial statements of 
companies and investment funds. Investors rely on these 
audit reports since auditors are liable for inaccuracies. 
A legitimate investment company managing multi-
billion dollars of assets under management would use a 
reputable, nationally known auditing firm. In the Madoff 
case, with over $50 billion in purported funds, the fact 
that the auditor was unknown, hard-to-locate and had 
only three purported employees should have been a red 
flag to investors. 
• Background Check. Check with the Hawaii Office of the 
Securities Commissioner to determine if the securities, 
the individuals and the firms selling the investment are 
properly registered with the State of Hawaii. You can also 
check the seller’s complaint history when you call the 
office (808) 586-2722.
• Where to report Ponzi schemes. If you’re a victim of a 
Ponzi scheme, call the DCCA Securities Enforcement 
Branch at (808) 586-2740. We can investigate the matter 
and take legal action where appropriate. We might be able to get some money back for you and your call may 
help others from being victimized by the same scam.
Source: NASAA. Madoff A 21st Century Ponzi Scheme. Retrieved from 
http://www.nasaa.org/4303/madoff-a-21st-century-ponzi-scheme/ 72
   FINANCIAL FRAUDAFFINITY FRAUD  
WHAT IS AFFINITY FRAUD
Affinity fraud refers to an investment scam that targets groups and 
uses the trust among group members to spread the fraud. Con 
artists leverage that network to gain trust, cloak themselves in 
credibility and lower the guard of their target victim.  It could be 
called “relationship” fraud because the con artists use relationships 
to get their “friends” to buy into fake investments, often Ponzi 
schemes. 
The Madoff Ponzi scheme covered on page 69 , is also an example 
of Affinity Fraud. Madoff was a prominent and respected member of the Jewish community. Many investors within that community 
let their guard down because Madoff had cloaked himself with the 
strong ties and well-regarded position he held in the group. 
EXAMPLE IN HAWAII: BILLIONS COUPON CASE
In the Billions Coupon Inc. case, Marvin Ray Cooper was a leader 
in the Deaf Community in Hawaii. He used his position to convince 
over 129 investors to invest over $3.9 million dollars with him. 
There was no underlying investment. 
The Office of the Securities Commissioner investigated the case 
and issued a Cease and Desist order banning Mr. Cooper from 
the industry, ordering rescission and charging him with an 
administrative penalty of $500,000.  
 
      HELPFUL TIPS FOR AVOIDING  
       AFFIN ITY FRAUD
• Never make an investment solely based on the reputation 
of or “friendship” with a member of a group to which you 
belong.
73
   FINANCIAL FRAUD FINANCIAL FRAUD• Remember, you have the right to say “no” even if it is a 
friend trying to sell you an investment.
• Beware of investment opportunities that sound too good 
to be true.
• Do not let a “friendship” stop you from getting the offer in 
writing and asking hard questions.
• Be suspicious if you are told NOT to share details of the 
investment with people outside of the group or to keep 
the investment opportunity confidential. 
• Use common sense – just because someone you know 
made money or claims to have made money doesn’t 
mean you will make money too.
• WHERE TO REPORT AFFINITY FRAUD. Report Affinity 
Fraud even if the scam artist is your “friend.” It could 
help save you, your family and your community lots of 
money and heartache. Contact the Office of the Securities 
Commissioner at (808) 586-2740 or Toll Free  
1-877-447-2267. 
HOME LOAN FRAUD
There are many different types of fraud when it comes to home 
ownership and loans. Here are some common frauds. 
Blank Documents:  In this simple type of fraud, the homeowner 
is tricked into signing a lien document or deed transfer that has 
been disguised as other paperwork. Or a homeowner signs a 
blank document and the signature is used on a lien or transfer 
document. 74
   FINANCIAL FRAUDCaretakers, Family, Friends, and Professionals:  Seemingly 
trustworthy people befriend senior homeowners, gain their trust, 
and have them sign over their homes or set up home equity loans 
that allow the “friend” to unjustly access the homeowner’s equity.
Deed Forgeries: Scam artists forge the homeowner’s signature on a 
blank “grant deed” in order to transfer ownership of property. With 
the phony deed, the scam artist can borrow against the equity in 
the home.
Foreclosure Consultants: Disreputable consultants may take a 
large fee to save a house from foreclosure and then disappear in 
this type of fraud. Alternatively, the consultant may convince the 
homeowner to sign over the deed to the property and then proceed 
to evict the homeowner. 
Home Equity Loan and Predatory Lending:  In most cases, someone 
who lends money secured by a borrower’s home can legally 
seize the home if the borrower does not make payments on 
time. Because of this, dishonest individuals have found ways to 
lure homeowners with high-rate, high-fee home loans that are 
impossible to repay. This is called home equity loan fraud.
In one common approach, a swindler might arrive at a victim’s 
door uninvited, offering to do repairs and help finance them. The 
swindler may talk victims into taking out a home equity loan from 
the swindler and when they cannot afford to repay it, the swindler 
forecloses, evicts and gets the whole property. 
For example, a woman on a fixed income was persuaded to sign a 
loan contract secured by her home that required more than $3,000 
per month in payments, although her fixed monthly income was 
only $900. The lender foreclosed on the woman’s home and evicted 
her.
Fly-By-Night Lenders:  Dishonest lenders set up offices in 
low-income and often minority neighborhoods and convince 75
   FINANCIAL FRAUD FINANCIAL FRAUDhomeowners to sign loan documents secured by their homes. 
Then the lenders disappear with the money, possibly reselling the 
loan to another lender who then forecloses on the home.
Refinancing Scams: Homeowners who fall victim to these scams 
are solicited to refinance their homes using a loan product they 
cannot afford to repay, leading to defaults and foreclosures while 
the disreputable brokers collect commissions and initial fees. Many 
homeowners who are targeted in these scams are elderly, have 
low incomes and/or credit problems. This illegal practice is a type 
of predatory lending.
Reverse Mortgage Fraud:  Reverse mortgages allow older 
homeowners to convert part of the equity in their homes into cash, 
without having to sell their homes or take on additional monthly 
bills. Reverse mortgages can seem very attractive but can be a 
way to lure seniors into contracts they don’t understand. Reverse 
mortgages can reduce inheritance amounts and give the lender 
the remaining value of the house. These loans may also lead to 
other types of fraud.  
 
HELPFUL TIPS TO AVOID HOME LOAN FRAUD
• Never let anyone rush you into signing for a loan secured 
by your home. Always insist on a few days to think about 
it.
• Don’t let family members or friends talk you into 
taking out or co-signing a loan on your home for their 
own purposes. Look for other ways to help them out 
of financial difficulties, such as recommending debt 
counseling.
• Shop around. Before you decide on a loan, meet with 
several different lenders, including large banks, small 
community institutions, and credit unions.
76
   FINANCIAL FRAUD• Review the contract with someone you trust and have a  
lawyer review the document. Many local bar associations, 
senior organizations, and local colleges provide low-cost 
legal aid, which is well worth the money when something 
as valuable as your house is at stake.
• Never sign any document that contains blank lines that 
could be filled in after you sign, and insist on obtaining a 
photocopy of any document you sign for your records. 
• Make sure you understand everything in the contract. Find 
out all the costs of the loan, including the APR (annual 
percentage rate), fees, points, and closing (or settlement) 
costs — including the lender’s title insurance and appraisal 
fees.
• Be extremely cautious about using a contractor 
recommended by a lender, and vice versa. When choosing 
a contractor, get personal references and research them, 
then contact the appropriate government-licensing agency 
to verify that the contractor is licensed. 
• If you negotiated in a language other than English with 
a loan broker or personal finance company, ask if a 
translation of the contract is available for you to review 
and keep for your records.
MORTGAGE REDUCTION/
SERVICING OR DEBT RELIEF 
FRAUD
In this type of fraud, individuals represent themselves as 
attorneys, foreclosure counselors, mortgage servicers or mortgage 
lenders who claim they can help reduce mortgage payments or 
eliminate mortgage debt. The con artists running these scams 
have often targeted vulnerable groups like non-English speaking 77
   FINANCIAL FRAUD FINANCIAL FRAUDimmigrants. They work hard to infiltrate trusted networks of 
family and friends.  
The con artists advise consumers to stop making payments to 
their lender in order to qualify for a mortgage modification, or 
to eliminate the mortgage. The consumers are directed to pay 
an upfront fee, transfer title or even make payments to the con artists and their fictional company in return for the loan 
modification or forgiveness. In reality, the victim loses the money 
paid to the con artists, gets in trouble with the actual lender 
who the consumer stopped paying and may even lose the home. 
These missed payments harm the consumer’s credit score and can 
trigger penalties, high interest rates on the original loan and even 
foreclosure action. 
HELP FOR HOMEOWNERS
If you are experiencing any difficulty with your mortgage or 
in dealing with your lender or mortgage servicer, there are 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) certified 
housing counselors located at various non-profit agencies here 
in Hawaii that can provide assistance on buying a home, renting, 
defaults, foreclosures, and credit issues at no cost to you. Please 
do not delay before contacting a HUD-certified counselor. The 
earlier you contact a counselor, the more likely they can help you. 
For more information as well as a list of HUD approved housing 
counseling agencies in your area, visit cca.hawaii.gov/hfic/  or 
contact the Hawaii Foreclosure Information Center at (808) 587-
3222.
If you have been victimized, you can file a complaint with 
the DCCA Office of Consumer Protection (OCP). Contact the 
Consumer Resource Center at (808) 587-4272 or visit the OCP 
website at cca.hawaii.gov/ocp/  for more information about filing a 
complaint.   HEALTHCARE FRAUD
78
   FINANCIAL FRAUD 
If you are looking for help to prevent foreclosure, avoid any 
business or individual that: 
• Promises they can stop the foreclosure process, no 
matter your circumstances.
• Instructs you not to contact your lender, lawyer or HUD 
approved housing counselor or credit counseling agency.
• Recommends that you stop making your mortgage 
payments.
• Recommends that you make your mortgage payments 
directly to them, rather than your lender.
• Collects a fee before providing any services.
• Recommends that you hire an out-of-state lawyer who 
isn’t licensed to practice law in Hawaii.
• Pressures you to sign papers you haven’t had a chance 
to read thoroughly or that you don’t understand.
HELPFUL TIPS TO PROTECT AGAINST 
MORTGAGE REDUCTION OR DEBT RELIEF  
FRAUD79
   HEALTHCARE FRAUD HEALTHCARE FRAUD    FINANCIAL FRAUDHEALTHCARE AND 
MEDICARE FRAUD
Healthcare fraud can take various forms.
This section gives you information on 
how to check medical professionals and 
discusses scams, fraud, billing errors  
and/or abuse against Medicare and 
insurance companies. 
80
   HEALTHCARE FRAUDPROFESSIONAL LICENSES: 
DENTISTS, NURSES, DOCTORS 
(PHYSICIANS)
Dentists, nurses and doctors must be licensed to practice in 
Hawaii. A license means the State has vetted the healthcare 
professional for qualifications such as education and training. 
You can check your healthcare provider’s license and complaint 
history by contacting the Regulated Industries Complaints Office 
(RICO) and the Professional and Vocational Licensing (PVL) 
Divisions of the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs. 
For more information on how to check a license or complaint 
history, and to report fraud, call RICO at (808) 587-4272 or visit 
their website at cca.hawaii.gov/rico/business_online/.
MEDICARE FRAUD
Medicare scams, billing errors, abuse, and fraud cost taxpayers 
over $80 billion dollars each year. One type of fraud is Medicare 
Identity Theft where someone steals your name, social security 
number, or Medicare number to get medical care, buy drugs, 
or send fake billing to Medicare. Sometimes false claims are 
intentionally sent to Medicare in order to obtain payment. See the 
chart on your right for ways that fraudulent claims are billed to 
Medicare. 81
   HEALTHCARE FRAUD HEALTHCARE FRAUDTypes of Fraudulent Claims
Physicians/
Practitioners   • Upcoding to a higher-level of service to 
obtain more payment from Medicare
  • Billing for services not provided
  • Misrepresenting diagnoses on the claim 
forms to obtain payment from Medicare 
Mental 
Health 
Services  • Upcoding
  • Using non-licensed staff to provide services 
when a license is required 
  • False billing (e.g. billing group therapy 
sessions as individual treatments) 
Home Health 
Agencies   • Billing for more visits than provided 
  • Billing custodial care as skilled nursing 
services
  • Billing for services to patients who do not 
meet the definition of homebound
Hospice  • In-home hospice care: Cutting staff to a 
minimum to reduce the level of care and 
pressure family to place the patient in a 
hospice facility 
  • Hospice facility care: Refusing to discharge 
a patient no longer eligible for hospice care 
or who wants to stop receiving hospice 
care
  • Private billing patients’ families for drugs or 
procedures and then billing Medicare and/
or Medicaid
Clinical / 
Independent 
Physiological 
Laboratories  • Adding tests not ordered by the physician 
or splitting up panels of tests to bill for 
tests separately  
  • Falsifying test results to substantiate the 
need for services82
   HEALTHCARE FRAUD  • Using “rolling labs” to visit senior centers, 
elderly housing projects, or malls to offer 
“free” or unnecessary diagnostic tests and 
using Medicare numbers to bill Medicare
Hospitals  • Billing for tests, therapy, or supplies not 
provided to the patient
  • Misrepresenting the patient’s condition on 
the claim form in order to obtain payment 
or higher payment
  • Holding patients under observation  
status in order to obtain higher payment 
(Note: Days under observation status will 
not count towards meeting  Medicare’s 
requirement for coverage in a skilled 
nursing facility after leaving the hospital.)
Nursing 
Facilities  • Billing for medical supplies not provided to 
the patient
  • Understaffing to reduce costs and 
neglecting necessary care
  • Falsifying documents to avoid liability (e.g. 
faking duty rosters and altering patient 
records)
Ambulances  • Falsifying documents to bill for  
non-emergency trips 
  • Billing for advanced life support services 
when only basic life support services were 
provided
  • Listing ambulance transports as emergency  
services when ambulance was used as a 
taxi service83
   HEALTHCARE FRAUD HEALTHCARE FRAUDDurable 
Medical 
Equipment 
and Supplies  • Forging signatures on certificates of 
medical necessity
  • Offering free products or paying 
beneficiaries to get their Medicare number
  • Conspiring with practitioners and 
laboratories to falsify examination results 
to qualify for Medicare
Pharmacies   • Billing for drugs not medically necessary or 
actually not dispensed
  • Billing for brand name drugs but dispensing 
generics
  • Conspiring with Medicare beneficiaries and 
physicians to divert filled prescriptions to 
drug traffickers in exchange for a kickback
  •  Selling fake, expired, or contaminated 
drugs through fraudulent online 
pharmacies
Medical 
Identity Theft   • Stealing Medicare beneficiary and provider 
numbers to steal identities and commit 
fraud
  • Selling Medicare numbers to criminals to 
use to falsely bill Medicare
  • Using another person’s Medicare number 
to get medical services or prescription 
drugs84
   HEALTHCARE FRAUDPREVENT MEDICARE FRAUD
Protect: Here are some ways to take an active role in protecting 
your healthcare benefits and preventing Medicare errors, fraud, 
and abuse:
• Protect your Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security 
numbers. Your Medicare and Medicaid numbers are the 
same as your social security number. Be careful when you 
share this information.
• Record doctor visits, tests, and procedures in your 
personal healthcare journal (PHCJ) or calendar.
• Remember, Medicare doesn’t call or visit to sell you 
anything. 
• Don’t be fooled.  If it sounds too good to be true, it 
probably is.
• Read and save Medicare Summary Notices (MSN) and 
Part C and D Explanation of Benefits (EOB). Shred the 
documents when they are no longer useful. 
Detect: Learn to detect potential errors, abuse, and fraud. Here 
are some steps you can take: 
• Always review your MSN and EOB for mistakes. 
• Compare your MSN and EOB to your personal healthcare 
journal and prescription receipts to make sure they are 
correct. 
• Look for these three things in your billing statement:
1. Charges for something you didn’t receive
2. Billing for the same thing twice 
3. Services and supplies that your doctor did not order85
   HEALTHCARE FRAUD HEALTHCARE FRAUD
Report: If you find billing errors, or possible fraud, report it. You 
may prevent others from becoming victims and help to save your 
Medicare benefits. 
• If you are not comfortable calling your provider or plan 
or are not satisfied with the response, call SMP Hawaii 
at (808) 586-7281 or toll free 1-800-296-9422 or visit us 
online at smphawaii.org. 
 
• Your Medicare number is your Social Security number. You 
may be more willing to give out your Medicare number 
thinking that it is a random number assigned to you, but in 
reality, that number is your Social Security number. In the 
wrong hands, your Social Security number can be used for 
much more than healthcare fraud. It can lead to identity 
theft, financial fraud, and more. 
 
• Fraud targeting the Medicare Advantage and Prescription 
Drug Program thrive on confusion and panic. Medicare 
is not the easiest program to understand and may leave 
you confused. When faced with deadlines to choose a 
plan, you may become nervous. Fraudsters will use your 
confusion to mislead you to join a plan that may not be 
   KUPUNA
86
   HEALTHCARE FRAUD
 right for you or cause you to lose health benefits you 
may not be able to get back. 
• The consequences of Medicare fraud. The money that 
has been lost due to fraud, waste, and abuse could 
have been used to provide more services to members, 
increase reimbursement rates for providers, or to reduce 
premiums and co-payments for members. 
• Future generations of Medicare members. In order 
to ensure that your children, grandchildren, and their 
children receive the benefits to which they are entitled, 
everyone must work together to protect, detect, and 
report potential healthcare scams, fraud, abuse, and 
errors. 
To be a part of the Senior Medicare Patrol (SMP) Volunteer 
Program , contact the volunteer coordinator at  
(808) 586-7319 or toll free at 1-800-296-9422.
Please contact SMP Hawaii if you have questions or concerns 
regarding potential healthcare scams, fraud, waste, abuse, or 
billing errors:
By Phone: (808) 586-7281 or toll-free at 1-800-296-9422  
By Email:  Report@SMPHawaii.org  
Website: smphawaii.org
For more information, see the Resources section. 87
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA      HEALTHCARE FRAUDKEEPING OUR 
KUPUNA (SENIORS) 
SAFE
The largest generation in our nation’s 
history, the Baby Boomers, are entering 
their senior years, and with it, our nation 
has seen increasing incidents of fraud 
against seniors. It may be in part due 
to the sheer number of people and their 
vast cumulative wealth that make the 
baby boomer seniors a preferred target. 
In addition, there is no denying that new 
technology has added an extra wrinkle to 
the mix. This section looks at 21st century 
fraud with a lens focused on seniors. 
88
   KUPUNACOMMON CONSUMER  SCAMS 
AGAINST KUPUNA   
Read through the list below. If you become familiar with these 
scams, it may help you and your loved ones to avoid them.
Relative in 
Need Someone who pretends to be a family 
member or friend calls or emails you to say 
they are in trouble and needs you to wire 
money right away.  
Charity 
Appeals  You get a call or letter from someone 
asking for money for a fake charity – either 
the charity does not exist or the caller was 
an imposter and the real charity did not call or write to you. 
 
Learn more on page 34
Lottery or 
Sweepstakes  You get a call or email saying that you have 
a chance to win a lot of money through a 
foreign country’s sweepstakes or lottery. 
The caller will offer tips about how to win if you pay a fee or buy something. Or the caller or email says you have already won 
and you must give your bank account 
information or pay a fee to collect your winnings.
 Learn more on page 27
Home 
Improvement  Scammers take money for repairs and 
then they never return to do the work or 
they do bad work. Sometimes they break 
something to create more work or they say that things need work when they don’t. 
 
Learn more on page 36
Free Lunch Scammers invite you to receive a free 
lunch if you attend a seminar, and then 
pressure you to invest money with them. 
They offer you “tips” or “guaranteed returns.” 89
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   Free Trip Scammers say you’ve won a free trip 
but they ask for a credit card number or 
advance cash to hold the reservation. 
Government 
Money You get a call or letter that seems to be 
from a government agency. Scammers 
say that if you give a credit card number or send a money order, you can apply for government assistance with housing, 
home repairs, utilities, or taxes.
Drug Plans Scammers pretend they are with Medicare 
prescription drug plans, and try to sell Medicare discount drug cards that are not 
valid. Companies with Medicare drug plans are not allowed to send unsolicited mail or email, or make unsolicited phone calls.
Identity Theft Scammers steal personal information 
– such as a name, date of birth, social 
security number, account number, and 
mother’s maiden name – and use the information to open credit card accounts, get a mortgage in someone else’s name or 
otherwise use the false identity.
 
Learn more on page 51
Fake 
“Official” 
Mail Scammers send letters or emails that 
look like they are from a legitimate bank, business, or agency to try to get your 
personal information or bank account information. 
 Learn more on page 18
Source: CFPB. Managing Someone Else’s Money: Help For 
Trustees Under a Revocable Living Trust. Retrieved from
http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201310_cfpb_lay_fiduciary_guides_trustees.pdf
Remembe r, these are common scams. If one has happened to 
you, don’t be embarrassed or afraid to report it. Many have been 
in your shoes. Report now to protect yourself and others.  90
   KUPUNA
WHERE TO GET HELP:
1. Your Local Police Department 9-1-1.
2.  Federal Bureau of Investigation (808) 566-4300.
3.  Better Business Bureau on Oahu at (808) 628-3950 or toll 
free from neighbor islands at 1-888-333-1593.
4. Department of the Attorney General, Tax and   
Charities Division (808) 586-1480.
5.  Regulated Industries Complaints Office (808) 587-4272.
 
HELPFUL TIPS FOR KUPUNA  
The tips belo w can work in many different circumstances and 
have a universal application: 
• Slow it down. Find a way to take the information home and 
review it slowly. Tell the seller, “I will get back to you.” Don’t 
fall for the pressure tactic of urgency. 
• Thoroughly understand the offer. Ask questions and do your 
research about the offer and those promoting the offer.  
Get clear and direct answers before you invest or pay. Don’t 
rely on reputation or word of mouth alone. 
• Understand the costs. Ask about the risks, obligations, 
and costs of any offer before getting involved. Ask about 
commissions, sales charges, maintenance or service 
charges, transaction or redemption fees and penalties 
associated with the investment. 
• Beware of unrealistic promises. Promises that promote high returns in a short period of time with no risk are unrealistic. 
If it’s too good to be true, it probably is. 91
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   • Take the emotion out of the equation. Scammers use 
emotions to confuse targets. They use feelings of 
friendship, pressure of financial fear, deep desires for 
security and so much more to lure targets into making 
bad financial decisions. Don’t fall for it. Try to review offers 
without overwhelming emotions. 
• Just say no. Don’t be afraid to say “no.”
 
TALKING STORY WITH OUR 
KUPUNA
Seniors are preferred targets of fraud. Why? Because seniors 
tend to have more financial assets and better lines of credit. 
Many seniors have saved for decades and have more free time 
for scammers to approach them. Some have physical impairments 
that scammers can leverage. The following section presents fraud 
in story form and then offers preventive tips that can help kupuna, 
family members, and caregivers. 
92
   KUPUNAA Story About  
PONZ I AND AFFINITY FRAUD:  
Tutu, just say “No.”
Tutu was a widow who had worked her whole life as a secretary 
and who also inherited a small nest egg from her late husband.  
She had been saving a long time but didn’t have quite enough to 
take care of her needs and help her children. One day, she was approached by the head of her community center, Keoni. He said 
he knew she was financially struggling and that he could help. 
Keoni told Tutu to invest in his cousin’s new business and he 
promised her 10% returns every month so that she would have 
enough money to help her children.  
Keoni told her she could ask the other long-time community 
center seniors about his offer because many of them had invested 
and made money. Sure enough, when Tutu asked her friends at 
the center, many vouched for Keoni and said they invested too and received interest regularly. Keoni also told her this was a very 
secret special deal only for his favorite seniors at the community 
center so she should not tell anyone outside of the center about it. When she asked how the business worked, he said it was too 
complicated to explain and that she should just trust him. 
Tutu gave Keoni $10,000. After a few months, she received a little 
interest back but it wasn’t the promised 10%. When she asked 
Keoni about it, he ignored her. After 6 more months, Keoni left the 
community center. When Tutu tried to get her money back, she found out that Keoni had convinced almost everyone in the center 
to invest and no one at the center could get their money back. In 
the end, it turned out Keoni had never invested the money in any 
business. Instead, he had run a Ponzi scheme where he took 
some of the new investors’ money to pay off a little bit of interest 
to the earlier investors just to make them think that there really 
was a business. He spent the rest of the money on93
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   his own personal expenses. He committed affinity fraud . He 
used friendships in a tight community to get Tutu and others in 
the group to trust him and invest in his Ponzi scheme. 
Tutu filed a complaint with the Office of the Securities 
Commissioner and the Office started an investigation. 
HELPFUL TIPS TO AVOID AFFINITY FRAUD  
• Never make an investment solely based on the reputation 
of or “friendship” with a member of a group to which you 
belong. 
• You can sa y “no” even to a friend. It is your money and 
you have a right to protect yourself. 
• Beware of investment opportunities that sound too good 
to be true. 
• Do not let a “friendship” stop you from getting the offer in 
writing and asking hard questions. 
• Be suspicious if you are told NOT to share details of the 
investment with people outside of the group or to keep 
the investment opportunity confidential. 
• Use common sense – just because someone you know made money or claims to have made money doesn’t mean 
you will make money too. 
94
   KUPUNAA Story About  
VARIABLE ANNUITIES:  
Grandpa was 82 years old and attended a delicious free lunch 
seminar where a man named John introduced everyone to 
an investment opportunity to purchase variable annuities . 
Grandpa didn’t know much about variable annuities, but John, the investment adviser and sales agent, told Grandpa to pay some 
money now and in return, Grandpa would receive a monthly 
payment for life! John was so nice, Grandpa just couldn’t say 
no. John started to visit Grandpa at home regularly and would 
make time to talk to Grandpa about the family, bring manapua 
and snacks and make Grandpa feel he had a friend. John asked 
Grandpa to give him his social security number and sign blank 
forms to buy $75,000 in variable annuities. John reassured Grandpa that he would take care of everything and that Grandpa 
didn’t need to worry about anything.
A couple months later, Grandpa needed money to pay for 
Grandma’s medical bills. When he tried to get money out of 
his variable annuity, he found out John had sold him a variable 
annuity that was locked up for 10 years.  
Grandpa would have to wait until he was 92 to get his money 
back or face a 40% penalty for early withdrawal. 
Grandpa needed the money and so he took a 40% loss on his life 
savings. He lost $30,000 because John had sold him a product that was totally wrong for an 82 year old man. 
Grandpa had no record of what he bought, he didn’t know what 
he signed and he had no idea he’d be locked in and penalized.
Grandpa called the Office of the Securities Commissioner to file a 
complaint and an investigation was started. Grandpa, your investment is locked up for 10 years.95
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   
CHECK LIST: PROTECT  YOUR INVESTMENTS
  Ask about any lo ck-up period. If you are 82, you shouldn’t 
be sold an investment that locks up your money for 10 
years. 
 Ask about penalties if you need your money back for 
unexpected expenses like medical bills or in-home care. 
 Understand it before you buy it. Never be embarrassed to ask questions. If it’s too confusing to understand, don’t 
buy. 
 Request a copy of the final signed document before 
handing over any money. 
 Keep all of your records relating to your investments and instructions, including notes of conversations you have with  
your broker, sales agents, financial advisers, and others. 
 For help or to report fraud, call the DCCA Securities 
Enforcement Branch at (808) 586-2740. 
A Story About  
LIFE SETTLEMENTS:  
Grandpa, you made the right call.
Grandpa was worried about providing for his wife and family. He had an insurance policy of $500,000 and had been diagnosed with 
a long term illness. But he needed the money now. The insurance 
company said he could cash out for $150,000. He was thinking 
about it.
One day, he attended a free lunch seminar on life settlements.  
The speaker, Mr. Akito, came to Grandpa’s table and after talking 
with Grandpa, he offered Grandpa a life settlement . Mr. Akito96
   KUPUNAwould take over payments for Grandpa’s policy and pay Grandpa 
a lump sum of $200,000 if Grandpa would make Mr. Akito the 
beneficiary. Grandpa would get $200,000 now but when Grandpa 
passed away, Mr. Akito would get the $500,000 policy. Grandpa 
asked for the contract in writing. 
Then, Grandpa called a registered financial investment adviser 
and insurance agent, and asked about the deal. The adviser read 
the contract and told Grandpa that $200,000 was not a good price compared to the market. His adviser also warned Grandpa 
that the contract said Mr. Akito would get a whopping 30% 
commission and the fine print stated that Mr. Akito’s company 
could resell Grandpa’s policy to others which would include 
passing along all his private health records. In addition, Grandpa 
might lose his Medicaid benefits and pay high taxes if he were to 
get a lump sum. 
Grandpa said NO to Mr. Akito’s offer. The adviser helped Grandpa 
find other ways to get money upfront.   
 
• For complicated investments, work with a registered 
investment adviser to help you understand it. Call 808-586-2740 or go to brokercheck.finra.org  to check if a 
professional is registered and to check background and complaint history.
• Be sure you understand how the life settlement works 
and what factors to consider. If you don’t understand, 
don’t buy it.
• Beware of aggressive sales tactics. Don’t be afraid to say 
“No.”
HELPFUL TIPS WHEN CONSIDERING 
LIFE SETTLEMENTS97
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   • Understand how taxes, social security, medicare and 
other benefits will be affected by the life settlement 
before you purchase. 
• Ask questions: 
o What are the key terms to this agreement?
o What company is actually responsible for fulfilling 
the terms of the agreement?
o Are there other costs – fees, commissions, penalties, etc.?
o Is this the best and fairest price for my policy?
o Will my private health records be sold to anyone else?
o What will happen if I change my mind? Is there a 
time limit?
  
REMINDER
Be sure to evaluate if a life settlement is beneficial given your 
specific situation – to keep or not to keep your current insurance 
policy. Either way, look at your options and proceed with much 
caution before purchasing a life settlement.
A Story About  
INDEXED ANNUITIES:  
Aunty Malia, you protected your life savings!
Aunty Malia was invited to a free lunch seminar about life 
insurance and annuities by her good friend Lisa. During the 
presentation, Lisa spoke about the benefits of investing in an 
indexed annuity based on the S&P 500. She said it was just 
like having the opportunity to invest in the best stocks on the 
New York Stock Exchange. Plus, she said that even if you don’t 
get your profits, what you put in (also called the premium) is 
guaranteed up to 90% at a 3% interest rate. Lisa said this was a 98
   KUPUNAonce in lifetime opportunity to invest in the best indexed annuity 
she’d ever seen in her professional life. 
Lisa explained that the annuity meant that Aunty Malia would pay a 
lump sum up front. In return, for the rest of her life, if she decided 
to annuitize, she would receive monthly payments based on all 
the gains of the S&P 500. It was like the best pension ever, and 
Lisa told Aunty Malia that at age 75, she had no time to waste in 
investing.  
Aunty Malia was so excited. Lisa said this annuity was based 
on the best stocks on the New York Stock Exchange and it was 
guaranteed. How could she lose? Lisa pressed her to sign the 
paperwork right away in order to receive such a great deal. Lisa 
promised her if she signed up and changed her mind, she could get 
all her money back during the free look period.
Aunty Malia was just about to sign up but at the last minute, she 
decided to take the paperwork home and look more closely at it 
with her nephew who was a registered investment adviser and 
insurance agent.
He told her that indexed annuities are complex investments. He 
warned that the indexed annuity is NOT an actual investment in 
stocks but instead, an investment in the insurance company and its calculations on the gain or loss of a pool of stocks (called an 
“index”). He explained that an indexed annuity is a private contract 
between an insurance company and the buyer. The insurance 
company agrees to make periodic payments based on a variety of 
calculations modeled on the performance of an index. 
He explained that one of the most confusing features is the method 
companies use to calculate the gain in the index (in Aunty Malia’s 
case, the index was the S&P 500). It is never a straightforward 
dollar-to-dollar calculation. Formulas vary among companies and 
their complexity may make it difficult to compare and evaluate, 
even when they are based on the same index.  99
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   Her nephew also encouraged her to make sure she carefully 
reviewed the various costs associated with investing in an indexed 
annuity. It gave her 80% of any increase in the exchange (called 
a “participation rate” which varies widely among companies and 
contracts), put a cap on the maximum she could get (called 
an “interest rate cap”) and also included a fee that would then 
be subtracted from any gains she received (called a “spread/
margin/asset fee”). He also warned that her contract said that 
the insurance company could change any of these terms without 
consulting her.
The “surrender period” for the annuity was 10 years, which meant 
that if she wanted or needed her lump sum investment back 
before she turned 85, she would pay a penalty rate. Based on 
her individual situation and finances, he was concerned that the 
annuity was not the right fit for Aunty Malia. 
When Lisa called the next day to pressure Aunty Malia, Aunty 
Malia said “no.”  It was her life savings and she needed a different 
investment.  
 
   
• Do not feel pressured to invest right away. Deals usually 
won’t expire. If they do, you’ll be able to find a similar deal 
elsewhere. 
• Make sure the agent you’re purchasing from is licensed. 
Just because they are a friend or family member, it does 
not mean that they’re trustworthy or qualified to handle 
your finances. 
• Annuities usually have long surrender periods compared 
to investments like a Certificate of Deposit (CD). Be sure 
to take this into consideration before tying your money up 
HELPFUL TIPS WHEN CONSIDERING 
INDEXED ANNUITIES100
   KUPUNAlong-term, and make sure you know the pros and cons of 
each investment vehicle. 
• Investors have the right to a 10-day free look period 
after opening an annuity and 30-day free look period for 
a replacement. During this period of time, the contract 
can be returned without a penalty, and you will get 100 
percent of your principal returned to you. Even though 
you can receive a refund, don’t buy the investment until 
you are sure you want to keep it. Refunds are never easy and deadlines can expire before you know it. 
• Shop around and get help from a trusted financial adviser, agent or accountant to help understand all the fine print. Call the DCCA Securities Enforcement Branch at 
(808) 586-2740 or go to brokercheck.finra.org  to check 
if a professional is registered and to check his or her background and complaint history.
• If you are truly interested in the investment, ask about 
“participation rates,” “spread/margin/asset” fees, “interest rate caps,” and the “surrender period.” Ask how any gains 
are actually calculated, and whether or not the insurance 
company has the power to change any of these important 
terms after you’re locked into the investment. 
• Remember, you are buying something from an insurance 
company, not stocks. If you buy, you should be sure you 
trust the insurance company.  
A Story About  
MEDICARE:  
Tutu! Remember, your Medicare card number is 
your social security number!
People have been calling Tutu on the phone, mailing her requests, 
coming to her door, emailing her, and even trying to get her 101
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   attention through commercials on late night television.
Tutu told her brother what great deals everyone was offering her.  
“They want to give me something for free or a very discounted 
price and all they need is my Medicare number.” Her brother 
stopped her and reminded her that her Medicare number is 
her social security number. “That’s how Medicare and identity 
theft happens,” he told her. Tutu started saying “No!” to all the 
solicitations. 
HELPFUL TIPS REGARDING MEDICARE
• Your Medicare Number is your personal information. It is actually the same as your Social Security number and you 
should never give it to anyone you don’t know or trust. It 
is more important to thieves than a credit card or bank 
account number. 
• Beware of people that you don’t know calling, mailing, 
approaching you in person, emailing, and requesting 
personal information. Hang up the phone, shred all 
personal information, walk away, delete, and just say “no.”  Bottom line, be very careful to whom you give your 
personal information.
• Medicare will only call you if you contacted them first or to 
follow up on a complaint. Medicare will not contact you to 
sell you a product, service, or health plan. Don’t be fooled 
by fake calls trying to get you to disclose your information.
• Don’t let those commercials fool you. Medicare will only 
pay for medical supplies if they are medically necessary 
and your physician approves it. If you need medical equipment or services, go to your doctor who you know 
and trust. 
• If something sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
102
   KUPUNAA Story About  
CHARITY:  
Tutu, be careful with donations
Tutu received phone calls asking her to make a contribution to 
help out all the families affected by a typhoon in Japan. The caller 
said the money was needed immediately and that it would be 
easy to make a contribution over the phone, if Tutu would give 
them her social security number and bank account number, or she 
could just mail cash to them.
Tutu was about to give them her money when she remembered to 
ask the name of the charity and to tell the caller she would have to check with the State Charity Registry. The caller abruptly hung 
up and Tutu was safe.  
HELPFUL TIPS FOR CHARITABLE GIVING
• Police Departments, Fire Departments, and other 
government agencies do not call members of the public 
asking for funds.  
• If you receive a phone call asking for money for a charitable purpose, ask for the name of the charitable 
organization.
• Ask where the charity is located.
• Ask if the person calling you is an employee, volunteer, or telemarketer for the charitable organization.
• If the caller is a telemarketer for the charity, ask how 
much of your donation will go to the charity.
• Never give personal information over the phone. 
103
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   • If you decide to make a donation, write a check. Do not 
send cash or wire transfer money.
• Check if the charity is registered in the State Charity 
Registry database at http://ag.ehawaii.gov/charity . All 
charities in Hawaii that solicit have to be registered with the Tax and Charities Division of the Department of the 
Attorney General. 
• If you have questions about the charity or to report fraud, 
call the Attorney General Tax and Charities Division at  
(808) 586-1480.
KUPUNA ONLINE  
How to be safer
There are risks for everyone online, and it’s no different for 
kupuna. Remember, opening unsafe attachments or downloads 
from the Internet are the two most common ways viruses, 
spyware, worms and other malware are used to infect your 
computer, destroy your property and steal your information. Be 
very careful with opening attachments and downloads.  For more 
information on Adware and Malware, please see page 11. 
104
   KUPUNA 
RED FLAGS FOR KUPUNA ONLINE
Look o ut for the following types of emails, websites, or social 
media messages that: 
• Offer “free” gifts, prizes or vacations, or exclaim, “You’re  
a winner!” 
• Offer discount prescription medications or other “can’t miss” deals. 
• Appear to be from friends or family members, but the message is written in a style not usually used by that 
person, has numerous misspellings, or otherwise seems 
unusual. This is an indication your friend’s or family 
member’s account may have been hacked. 
• Appear to be from official government agencies, such as Social Security Administration, or IRS, but request  
personal information online. 
• Set ultimatums such as “your account will be closed,” or “the deal will expire” to create a sense of urgency to lure 
you into providing personal information. 
• Unexpected pop up screens that tell you to call a number to help “fix” your computer. 
KEEP A CLEAN COMPUTER  
• Keep software updated. Install the latest security 
software, web browser and operating system on your 
computer. Enable the auto-update feature to ensure you 
have the most up-to-date security software. 
105
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   PROTECT YOUR WIRELESS NETWORK
• Create a secure password for your wireless router. A 
secure password includes a mix of capital and lower case 
letters, numbers and symbols. Do not use your name or 
birthdate. 
BE WEB WISE
• When in doubt, throw it out. Links and attachments in emails, social media posts, and online ads are often how 
scammers access your computer. If you are instructed to 
click on a link or attachment in a message you don’t trust, 
even if you know the sender, delete the message or mark 
it as junk mail. 
• Back it up . Store valuable work, photos, music and other 
information on an external hard drive and/or online in the “cloud.” 
 Source: Multi-State Newsletter. Keeping Senior Citizens Safe Online.  
http://msisac.cisecurity.org/newsletters/2013-06.cfm  
KUPUNA ALERT PARTNERS (KAP)  
EDUCATIONAL PRESENTATIONS
Kupuna Alert Partners  is a state multi-agency partnership that 
offers presentations on Medicare fraud prevention, securities fraud 
prevention, and prescription drug misuse to the community. If 
you are interested in scheduling a presentation with your senior 
group, please call (808) 586-1487. Please see page 112  for more 
information.  
CAREGIVERS
Today, more family and friends are becoming caregivers to our 
Kupuna (seniors). Caregiving can be a huge responsibility. To help 
caregivers understand their roles and responsibilities, this section reviews the different fiduciary relationships. 106
   KUPUNA 
 
          
 WHAT IS A FIDUCIARY ?
If you have been named to manage money or property for 
someone else, you are a fiduciary. The law requires you to 
manage your family member’s or a friend’s money and property 
for his or her benefit, not yours. It does not matter if you are 
managing a lot of money or a little. It does not matter if you are a 
family member or not. 
The role of a fiduciary carries with it legal responsibilities. When 
you act as a fiduciary for your family and friends, you have four basic duties that you must keep in mind:
1. Act only in the b est interest of your family or friend
2.  Manage his or  her money and property carefully and in
 his or her best interest
3. Keep money and property separate from yours
4. Keep clear and accurate records
As a fiduciary, you must be trustworthy, honest, and act in good 
faith. If you do not meet these standards, you could be removed as a fiduciary, sued, or have to repay money. It is even possible 
that the police or sheriff could investigate you and you could go 
to jail. That’s why it’s always important to remember: It’s not your 
money or property.
 
107
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   DIFFERENT TYPES OF FIDUCIARIES
In your role as agent, you may act as or deal with other types of 
fiduciaries. These may include: 
• Trustees under a revocable living trust  – someone 
names them to manage money and property.
• Representative payees or, for veterans, VA 
fiduciaries – a government agency names them to 
manage government money that is paid to someone. 
• Guardians or conservators  – a court names them to 
manage money and property for someone who needs help. 
For more information about the duties of these fiduciaries, go to: 
consumerfinance.gov/managing-someone-elses-money 
Source: CFPB. Managing Someone Else’s Money: Help For Agents Under a Power of Attorney. 
Retrieved from http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201310_cfpb_lay_fiduciary_guides_agents.pdf
PROTECTING OUR KUPUNA 
Caregiving  for a loved one can be difficult. Often times, caregivers 
are juggling their own personal schedules and finances with that of 
their loved one’s finances and health concerns. 
Protecting your loved one’s assets and knowing your rights as a 
caregiver are both important. With the increased number of cases 
of senior fraud, law enforcement, regulatory agencies, financial 
institutions and others are keeping a watchful eye out for any 
misuse of personal funds, and the medical and financial well-being of seniors. It’s good to know there are others looking out for 
seniors but prevention still starts at home with the seniors and their 
caregivers. 
We hope the following tips will help provide you with the resources 
you need to address the safety, healthcare and financial well-being 
for both your loved one and you, the caregiver. 108
   KUPUNA 
• Regularly evaluate how things are going for your loved 
one. Have them get a medical, financial and household 
evaluation periodically and check in with frequent calls 
and in-person visits. 
• Share information about popular scams with your senior 
one and educate yourself on important issues such 
as protecting personal information, and how to report  
possible scams promptly. Check out the resources in this 
Guide for more information.
• Practice with your kupuna how to say “no” to solicitors. 
For example, you could work on a script like this: “ No 
thank you, I have a family member/personal financial 
advisor/attorney who reviews everything before I make a 
decision.” 
• Use tools such as an answering machine and caller ID to 
cut down on the opportunity for possible scams.
• Organize everyone’s medical information and legal 
documents so it’s up to date and easy to find. 
• Invest in a shredder and shred all discarded documents 
with your kupuna’s personal information on them.
• Determine ways to simplify your kupuna’s finances 
and consider a system for oversight. Consider regular 
reviews of financial and medical statements by a trusted 
professional or family member and report suspicious 
charges or errors right away. 
• If possible, do not mail any documents with personal 
information from you or your kupuna’s personal
   HELPFUL TIPS FOR FAMILY MEMBERS  
   AND CAREGIVERS109
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   WARNING SIGNS TO INDICATE POSSIBLE 
FINANCIAL ABUSE OF ELDERLY
• Appears worried about their finances; talks about 
unanticipated financial problems.
• Is having unexplained purchases; missing cash or 
valuables.
• Has difficulty or confusion over purchases; appearance 
of service contracts, excessive repairs or excessive new 
items being purchased for the home.
• Unexpectedly gives financial control to a new caregiver, 
neighbor, or friend.
• Shows signs of fear or intimidation signals (mentioning 
for example, that the person helping them with their 
finances “doesn’t want me to talk about that” or doesn’t 
allow them to review their own checkbook, accounts or 
statements).
Source: Aging Wisely. Phishing Scams, Identity Theft Fraud and Elder Abuse. Retrieved from om
http://www.agingwisely.com/scams-on-the-elderly-senior-care-tips-for-fraud-prevention/ mailbox with the flag up for thieves to see. Instead, drop 
it off at the post office or in a secured designated USPS 
mail box.
• It’s very important for you to seek support from other 
caregivers. You are not alone! Accept offers of help.
 Source: Caregiver Action Network. 10 Tips for Family Caregivers. Retrieved from
http://caregiveraction.org/resources/10-tips-family-caregivers
REMINDER
Caregivers: give y oursel f credit for doing the best you can in one 
of the toughest jobs there is! 
 
110
   KUPUNAWHERE TO GET HELP  
FOR KUPUNA (SENIORS) AND CAREGIVERS
If you need help or have questions, below is a list of agencies that 
can help. Learn more about these agencies in our resource section 
on page 113 . 
BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU OF HAWAII, INC. 
1132 B ishop Street, Suite 615, Honolulu, HI 96813  
HOTLINE:  (808) 628-3950  
TOLL-FREE:  1-888-333-1593  
FAX: (808) 628-3970  
WEBSITE: bbb.org/hawaii  
 
CONSUMER FIN ANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU (CFPB)  
Office For The Older American
1625 Eye Street, NW, Washington DC 20552  
PHONE:  (202) 435-7121  
TOLL-FREE:  1-855-411-2372  
WEBSITE:  consumerfinance.gov  
 
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMER AFFAIRS 
(DCCA) 
Business Registration Division (BREG)  
Office Of The Securities Commissioner (OSC)
335 Merchant Street, Suite 203, Honolulu, HI 96813  
SECURITIES FRAUD HOTLINE:  (808) 587-2267  
TOLL-FREE:  1-877-447-2267  
WEBSITE:  investing.hawaii.gov
DEPARTME NT OF HEALTH (DOH)  
Executive Office On Aging
250 S. Hotel Street, Suite 406, Honolulu, HI 96813 111
   KUPUNA  KUPUNA   PHONE:  (808) 586-0100  
FAX:  (808) 586-0185 
WEBSITE:  health.hawaii.gov/eoa
HAWAII AGING AND DISABILITY RESOURCE CENTER (ADRC)
PHONE:  (808) 643-2372  
WEBSITE:  hawaiiadrc.org  
SENIOR MEDICARE PATROL (SMP) HAWAII
PHONE:  (808) 586-7281  
TOLL-FREE:  1-800-296-9422  
WEBSITE:  smphawaii.org/  
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES (DHS)  
Adult Protective And Community Services Branch
OAHU:  420 Waiakamilo Road #202, Honolulu, HI 96817  
PHONE:  (808) 832-5115  
FAX: (808) 832-5391
HILO:  1055 Kinoole Street #201, Hilo, HI 96720  
PHONE:  (808) 933-8820  
FAX:  (808) 933-8859
KONA:  75-5995 Kuakini Highway #433, Kailua-Kona, HI 96740  
PHONE : (808) 327-6280  
FAX:  (808) 327-6292
KAUAI:  4370 Kukui Grove Street #203, Lihue, HI 96766  
PHONE:  (808) 241-3337  
FAX:  (808) 241-3476
MAUI:  1773-B Wili Pa Loop, Wailuku, HI 96793  
PHONE:  (808) 243-5151  
FAX:  (808) 243-5166
WEBSITE:  humanservices.hawaii.gov/ssd/home/adult-services/   RESOURCES
112
   KUPUNA 
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
Criminal Justice Division  
Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (MFCU)
333 Queen Street, 10th Floor, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 586-1058  
FAX:  (808) 586-1077 
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/cjd/  
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/cjd/medicaid-fraud-control-unit/  
DEPA RTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
Tax And Charities Division 
425 Queen Street, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE  (808) 586-1480  
FAX:  (808) 586-8116  
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/tax  
CHARITIES REGISTRY: ag.ehawaii.gov/charity/welcome.html
DEPART MENT OF THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY 
City and County of Honolulu  
Elder Abuse Justice Unit
1060 Richards Street, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE  (808) 768-7400  
WEBSITE:  honoluluprosecutor.org/elder-abuse-justice-unit
KUPUNA ALERT PARTNERS (KAP)
KAP was formed as a partnership between Department of the 
Attorney General, Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs, 
Department of Health, and Department of Public Safety.  
PHONE  (808) 586-1487 
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/cpja/ccp113
   RESOURCES RESOURCES    KUPUNA 
RESOURCES
For your quick reference, we have 
provided a Directory of Resources by 
County, State, and National contacts with 
a short description to identify their area 
of expertise. Please feel free to contact 
these agencies or organizations should 
you have any questions or, for those that 
have websites, visit them online. 
Within the categories of County, State, 
and National, resources are listed 
alphabetically.  
STATE AND COUNTY GOVERNMENT 
OFFICES ARE OPEN MONDAY – FRIDAY 
7:45 A.M. – 4:30 P.M. EXCEPT STATE AND 
FEDERAL HOLIDAYS.
114
   RESOURCESDEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SERVICES 
Elderly Affairs Division  
Information & Assistance
715 S. King Street, Suite 200, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 768-7705  
HOTLINE:  (808) 768-7700 
FAX:  (808) 768-7720 or (808) 527-6895 
WEBSITE:  elderlyaffairs.com  
 
DESCRIPTION:  The Elderly Affairs Division (EAD), a division of 
the Department of Community Services of the City and County of 
Honolulu, is your local Area Agency on Aging. Its purpose is to plan, 
support and advocate for programs to promote the well-being of Oahu’s older adults and caregivers and to address and respond to 
the priority needs of all seniors.  
DEPARTMENT OF THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
1060 Richards Street, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 768-7400  
FAX:  (808) 768-7515  
WEBSITE:  honoluluprosecutor.org  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Criminal prosecution of physical and financial abuse 
of the elderly. Holds community meetings, talks, training, and school 
lectures regarding awareness and prevention of abuse. 
COUNTY RESOURCES
City & County of Honolulu  115
   RESOURCES RESOURCESHONOLULU POLICE DEPARTMENT  
Criminal Investigation Division 
Alapai Headquarters, 801 S. Beretania Street, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  9-1-1  
ADDITIONAL CONTACT NUMBERS:  (808) 723-3609  
FAX:  (808) 768-1680  
WEBSITE:  honolulupd.org  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Offers informational and educational presentations 
about how to protect against identity theft, credit card fraud, 
forgery, cybercrime and related subjects. Investigates various types 
of financial crimes including forgery, fraudulent use of credit cards, identity theft, computer crimes, cybercrime and elderly financial 
abuse.  
 
HAWAII COUNTY OFFICE OF AGING
HILO: 1055 Kinoole Street, Suite 101, Hilo, HI 96720  
PHONE:  (808) 961-8600  
FAX:  (808) 961-8603
KONA: 74-5044 Ane Keohokalole Hwy, Building B (1st Floor), Kona, 
HI 96740  
PHONE:  (808) 323-4390 
FAX:  (808) 323-4398 
 
WEBSITE:  hcoahawaii.org  
EMAIL:  hcoa@hawaiiantel.net
DESCRIPTION:  The Office of Aging provides program planning, 
grants management, service coordination, advocacy, training, and 
COUNTY RESOURCES
Hawaii County   116
   RESOURCESpublic information to residents. Services include: adult day care, 
assisted transportation, caregiver support and resource center, 
case management, chores, community planning, congregate 
meals, education and training, employment, home delivered meals, homemaker/housekeeping, home modification, information 
and assistance, legal assistance, long-term care access, nutrition 
education, outreach, personal care, respite and volunteer services. 
The office also produces a newsletter, brochure, and a resource 
directory.  
HAWAI I POLICE DEPARTMENT  
Criminal Investigation Division 
349 Kapiolani Street, Hilo, HI 96720  
PHONE:  (808) 935-3311 or 9-1-1  
ADDITIONAL CONTACT NUMBERS:   
 
 
FAX:  (808) 961-2376 
WEBSITE:  hawaiipolice.com  
EMAIL:  rwagner@hawaiicounty.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Offers presentations to private and public agencies 
and groups about how to protect yourself against identity theft, 
credit card fraud, forgery, and related subjects. Provides law 
enforcement and investigations of financial fraud including identity theft.  
OFFICE OF THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
HILO: 655 Kilauea Avenue, Hilo, HI 96720  
PHONE:  (808) 961-0466 (main office) 
FAX:  (808) 961-8908
KONA: 81-980 Halekii Street, Suite 150, Kealakekua, HI 96750  
PHONE:  (808) 322-2552 
FAX:  (808) 322-6584 HILO: (808) 961-2251 
KONA: (808) 326-4646 ext. 268117
   RESOURCES RESOURCESWAIMEA: 64-1067 Mamalahoa Hwy, Kamuela, HI 96743  
PHONE:  (808) 887-3014 
FAX:  (808) 887-3016 
 
WEBSITE:  hawaiicounty.gov/prosecuting-attorney  
EMAIL:  hilopros@co.hawaii.hi.us
DESCRIPTION:  Legal agency responsible for the prosecution of all 
criminal offenses occurring on the island of Hawaii.  
KAUAI COUNTY AGENCY ON ELDERLY AFFAIRS
4444 R ice Street, Suite 330, Lihue, HI 96766  
PHONE:  (808) 241-4470 
FAX:  (808) 241-5113  
WEBSITE:  kauaiadrc.org  
EMAIL:  elderlyaffairs@kauai.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Plans, implements, supports, and advocates for 
the well-being of Kauai’s older adults. Agency on Elderly Affairs 
contracts with community organizations to provide home-delivered 
and congregate meals, legal assistance, transportation, caregiver 
training, and an array of home-based services.  
KAUAI PO LICE DEPARTMENT
3990 Kaana Street, Suite 200, Lihue, HI 96766  
PHONE:  (808) 241-1711 or 9-1-1  
ADDITIONAL CONTACT NUMBERS:   
 
 
COUNTY RESOURCES
Kauai County  
INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES: (808) 241-1633 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS: (808) 241-1669118
   RESOURCESFAX:  (808) 241-1714  
WEBSITE:  kauai.gov/police  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Conducts investigations of fraud, theft, and 
associated crimes. Gives presentations to seniors on various topics 
such as protection against fraud, elder abuse, and neighborhood 
watch meetings.  
OFFICE O F THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
3990 Kaana Street, Suite 210, Lihue, HI 96766  
PHONE:  (808) 241-1888 
FAX:  (808) 241-1758 
WEBSITE:  kauai.gov/prosecutingattorney  
EMAIL:  prosecutor@kauai.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Criminal prosecution of physical and financial abuse 
of the elderly. Performs and participates in community meetings, 
training sessions, and various school lectures regarding awareness 
and prevention of abuse. 
DEPARTME NT OF THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
150 S. H igh Street, Wailuku, HI 96793-2155  
PHONE:  (808) 270-7777  
FAX:  (808) 270-7625  
WEBSITE:  co.maui.hi.us/departments/prosecuting/  
EMAIL:  prosecuting.attorney@mauicounty.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Criminal prosecution of physical and financial abuse 
of the elderly. Holds community meetings, talks, training sessions, and school lectures regarding awareness and prevention of abuse. 
COUNTY RESOURCES
Maui County  119
   RESOURCES RESOURCESCOUNTY RESOURCES
Maui County  MAUI COUNTY OFFICE ON AGING
95 Mahalani Street, Room 20, Wailuku, HI 96793  
PHONE:  (808) 270-7755  
FAX:  (808) 270-7935 
WEBSITE:  mauicounty.gov  
EMAIL:  aging@mauicounty.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Provides information, assistance and outreach 
to Maui County’s 60+ and caregivers. Includes assessment of 
individual’s needs and linkage/referral to appropriate services; 
public education on fraud and elder abuse; participation in senior information, health and wellness events; annual caregiver’s 
conference; Outstanding Older Americans Recognition; Maui 
Coordinated Aging Network (CAN); Interdisciplinary Team (IDT).  
MAUI P OLICE DEPARTMENT
55 Mahalani Street, Wailuku, HI 96793-2155  
PHONE:  (808) 244-6400 or 9-1-1  
FAX:  (808) 244-5576 
WEBSITE:  co.maui.hi.us/departments/police  
EMAIL:  crs@mpd.net  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Provides law enforcement and investigation of 
personal and property crimes. 120
   RESOURCES 
AARP HAWAII
1132 B ishop Street, Suite 1920, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 545-6000 
TOLL-FREE:  1-866-295-7282  
FAX:  (808) 537-2288 
WEBSITE:  aarp.org/money/scams-fraud/  
HAWAII WEBSITE:  aarp.org/states/hi/  
EMAIL:  hiaarp@aarp.org
DESCRIPTION:  Increasing awareness among investors and potential 
investors on how to better manage financial decision-making, 
avoid financial fraud and marketplace abuse, and how to prevent 
investment fraud. Hosts events, workshops, and volunteer training.  
 
BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU OF HAWAII, INC.
1132 B ishop Street, Suite 615, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 536-6956  
FRAUD HOTLINE:  (808) 628-3950  
TOLL-FREE:  1-888-333-1593  
FAX:  (808) 628-3970  
WEBSITE:  bbb.org/hawaii  
EMAIL:  info@hawaii.bbb.org
DESCRIPTION:  The Better Business Bureau of Hawaii provides 
dispute resolution (conciliation, mediation, and arbitration), autoline 
arbitration, advertising review, marketplace investigations, charity 
review and senior fraud education to create an ethical marketplace where buyers and sellers can trust each other. BBB’s mission is to 
be the leader in advancing marketplace trust. BBB accomplishes 
this mission by: 1) creating a community of trustworthy businesses, 
STATE RESOURCES  121
   RESOURCES RESOURCES2) setting standards for marketplace trust, 3) encouraging and 
supporting best practices, 4) celebrating marketplace role models, 
and 5) denouncing substandard marketplace behavior.
DEPA RTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
Crime Prevention & Justice Assistance Division  
Community & Crime Prevention Branch
235 S. Beretania Street, Suite 401, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 586-1444 
FAX:  (808) 586-1097 
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/cpja  
EMAIL:  hawaiiag@hawaii.gov
DESCRIPTION:  The Community & Crime Prevention Branch is 
responsible for the planning and implementation of informational and educational workshops and activities focused on community 
crime prevention. While criminal justice agencies can respond to crimes, it is the neighborhoods and communities that can help 
to prevent and reduce crimes. This is facilitated by the Branch 
providing information and training on how individuals, businesses, 
agencies/organizations, and communities can get involved.
The Crime Prevention & Justice Assistance Division serves as the 
central agency to provide the Attorney General with information and resources needed to address crime and crime prevention. 
The division researches crime issues and reports comprehensive 
crime statistics for the state, utilizing federal and state funds to 
address crime problems and criminal justice system issues; educates 
citizens on the prevention of crime and the promotion of community involvement; and develops and maintains a computerized juvenile 
offender information system.STATE RESOURCES  122
   RESOURCESDEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
Criminal Justice Division  
Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (MFCU)
333 Queen Street, 10th Floor, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 586-1058  
FAX:  (808) 586-1077 
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/cjd  
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/cjd/medicaid-fraud-control-unit/
DESCRIPTION:  Investigates allegations of provider fraud committed 
against the State Medicaid program, and patient abuse and neglect 
allegations against licensed and non-licensed care providers. 
Prosecutes confirmed allegations both criminally a nd civilly. 
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
Investigations Division  
Hawaii Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC)
235 S. Beretania Street, 16th Floor, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 587-4111  
FAX:  (808) 587-4118  
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/hicac  
EMAIL:  atg.icac@hawaii.gov
DESCRIPTION:  To increase investigations and prosecutions of 
computer-facilitated crimes, including Internet crimes against 
children. Participates in investigations (including undercover 
operations), prosecutions, computer forensics, and community/public awareness.
The Hawaii ICAC Task Force is part of a cooperative nationwide 
network of ICAC Task Forces that are dedicated to protecting children in the online environment. In order to accomplish this goal, 
our ICAC Task Force makes Internet education, safety programs and 
information available for Hawaii’s children, teachers and parents.  If prevention efforts fail, Hawaii’s ICAC Task Force investigates 123
   RESOURCES RESOURCESand prosecutes persons who victimize children through the use 
of computers and the Internet.  The ICAC Task Force also takes 
CyberTip complaints through a nationwide CyberTip line that is 
operated by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC).
DEPAR TMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
Tax And Charities Division 
425 Queen Street, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 586-1480  
FAX:  (808) 586-8116  
WEBSITE:  ag.hawaii.gov/tax  
CHARITIES REGISTRY: ag.ehawaii.gov/charity/welcome.html
DESCRIPTION:  The Tax and Charities Division provides legal 
representation and advice to the Department of Taxation in the 
areas of tax litigation, legislation, rules, investigations, and opinions 
and advice. The division contains an informal bankruptcy unit devoted to handling all bankruptcy cases for the Department of 
Taxation, and occasionally assists other agencies in bankruptcy 
matters. The division provides oversight and enforcement of laws 
pertaining to charitable trusts, public charities, public benefit 
corporations, and private foundations. 
The division is also responsible for the department’s registration 
and bonding function for professional solicitors and professional 
fundraising counsels under Chapter 467B of the Hawaii Revised 
Statutes, and the enforcement of the State’s charitable solicitation 
laws. The division is also the custodian of certifications by charities 
that issue charitable gift annuities under section 431:204(b) of the Hawaii Revised Statutes.
 
 124
   RESOURCESDEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMER   AFFAIRS (DCCA) 
Consumer Education Program
King Kalakaua Building, 335 Merchant Street, Honolulu, HI 96813  
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Provides consumer education information statewide 
to Hawaii residents to help them make wise choices in today’s 
ever-changing marketplace. Sponsors the Consumer Education 
Fair (March), Military Consumer Protection Day Fair (July), and participates in senior fairs and community events throughout the 
state (year round). 
CONSUMER INFORMATION LINE
PHONE:  (808) 587-1234  
NEIGHBOR ISLAND:  To contact the consumer information line, 
neighbor island residents may call the following numbers, followed 
by 7-1234 and the # key: HAWAII (808) 974-4000, KAUAI (808) 
274-3141, MAUI (808) 984-2400, LANAI & MOLOKAI TOLL-FREE 
1-800-468-4644.  
 
DESCRIPTION:  24-hour, automated system that contains pre-
recorded consumer messages. 
OFFICE OF CONSUMER PROTECTION DIVISION (OCP)
OAHU:  235 S. Beretania Street, Suite 801, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 586-2630 
FAX:  (808) 586-2640  
 
HILO: 120 Pauahi Street, Suite 212, Hilo, HI 96720  
PHONE:  (808) 933-0910 
FAX:  (808) 933-8845 
 
MAUI: 1063 Lower Main Street, Suite C-216, Wailuku, HI 96793  
PHONE:  (808) 243-4648  
FAX:  (808) 243-5807125
   RESOURCES RESOURCESNEIGHBOR ISLAND:  To contact the Oahu OCP office, neighbor 
island residents may call the following numbers, followed by 6-2630 
and the # key: HAWAII (808) 974-4000, KAUAI (808) 274-3141, 
MAUI (808) 984-2400, LANAI & MOLOKAI TOLL-FREE 1-800-468-
4644.  
 
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/ocp  
EMAIL:  ocp@dcca.hawaii.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Investigates consumer complaints alleging unfair or 
deceptive business practices and conducts civil enforcement actions 
against violations of Hawaii’s consumer protection laws. 
LANDLORD-TENANT CODE INFORMATION LINE
PHONE:  (808) 586-2634  
NEIGHBOR ISLAND:  To contact the landlord-tenant code 
information line, residents may call the following numbers, followed 
by 6-2634 and the # key: HAWAII (808) 974-4000, KAUAI (808) 
274-3141, MAUI (808) 984-2400, LANAI & MOLOKAI TOLL-FREE 
1-800-468-4644.  
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/ocp/landlord_tenant  
EMAIL:  ocp@dcca.hawaii.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Call for information on landlord-tenant matters. 
REGULATED INDUSTRIES COMPLAINTS OFFICE DIVISION 
(RICO)
OAHU: 235 S. Beretania Street, 9th Floor, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:   (808) 587-4272 
 
HILO: 120 Pauahi Street, Suite 212, Hilo, HI 96720  
PHONE:  (808) 933-8846  
 
KONA: 75-170 Hualalai Road, Room C309, Kailua-Kona, HI 96740  
PHONE:  (808) 327-9590 126
   RESOURCESKAUAI: 3060 Eiwa Street, Room 204, Lihue, HI 96766  
PHONE:  (808) 274-3200 
 
MAUI: 1063 Lower Main Street, Suite C-216, Wailuku, HI 96793  
PHONE:  (808) 243-5808
NEIGHBOR ISLAND:  To contact the RICO office toll-free, residents 
may call the following numbers, followed by 7-4272 and the # key: 
HAWAII (808) 974-4000, KAUAI (808) 274-3141, MAUI (808) 984-
2400, LANAI & MOLOKAI 1-800-468-4644. 
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/rico  
EMAIL:  rico@dcca.hawaii.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Investigates and prosecutes complaints relating to 
licensed professionals and unlicensed activity.
CONSUMER RESOURCE CENTER
PHONE:  (808) 587-4272  
TOLL-FREE : 1-800-394-1902  
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/resources/  
 
DESCRI PTION:  For questions about filing a complaint against a 
professional or vocational licensee, or to report unlicensed activity.  
Provides helpful information to consumers on a variety of topics, 
including hiring a licensed contractor and protecting yourself against unlicensed activity.  CRC also accepts complaints for the Office of 
Consumer Protection. 
LICENSE, BUSINESS, AND INFORMATION SECTION (LBIS)
PHONE:  (808) 587-4272, Press 2  
WEBSITE:  businesscheck.hawaii.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  One stop for information. Consumers can get basic 
business registration information, find out if a business or individual 
is licensed, and get information about complaints filed with RICO 
and OCP. 127
   RESOURCES RESOURCESDCCA ONLINE SERVICES
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/resources/  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Search online for business license and complaint 
history. Additional searches available: business name, certificate 
of good standing, various business filings, and insurance and 
professional/vocational license renewal.
 
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMER   AFFAIRS (DCCA) 
Business Registration Division (BREG) 
335 Merchant Street, Suite 201, Honolulu, HI 96813  
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/breg  
EMAIL:  breg@dcca.hawaii.gov
BUSINESS ACTION CENTER (BAC)
OAHU:  1130 N. Nimitz Highway, Suite A-220, Honolulu, HI 96817  
PHONE:  (808) 586-2545 
FAX:  (808) 586-2544 
 
HILO:  100 Pauahi Street, Suite 109, Hilo, HI 96720  
PHONE:  (808) 933-0773 
FAX:  (808) 933-0778 
 
MAUI:  70 E. Kaahumanu Ave, Unit B-9, Kahului, HI 96732  
PHONE:  (808) 873-8247 
FAX:  (808) 871-9160 
 
NEIGHBOR ISLAND:  To contact the oahu BAC office, neighbor 
island residents may call the following numbers, followed by 6-2545 
and the # key: HAWAII (808) 974-4000, KAUAI (808) 274-3141, 
MAUI (808) 984-2400, LANAI & MOLOKAI TOLL-FREE 1-800-468-
4644.  
 128
   RESOURCESWEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/breg  
EMAIL:  bac@dcca.hawaii.gov   
DESCRIPTION:  Offers business counseling services to startup or 
expanding businesses in the state and provides information on state 
filing requirements in the areas of business, labor, and tax. Serves 
as an information clearinghouse that provides general information on state and federal laws and rules, county ordinances and financial 
assistance programs related to business or commerce activities. 
Participates in business fairs, workshops, and other outreach events 
in conjunction with various federal, state, and county agencies as 
well as nonprofit educational programs. 
OFFICE OF THE SECURITIES COMMISSIONER (OSC)
335 Merchant Street, Suite 203, Honolulu, HI 96813
INVESTOR EDUCATION PROGRAM (IEP)
PHONE:  (808) 587-7400  
WEBSITE:  investing.hawaii.gov  
EMAIL:  iep@dcca.hawaii.gov   
DESCRIPTION:  Provides practical and current information to assist 
the community statewide with making wise choices when investing, 
increasing their financial literacy and improving their ability to 
identify and avoid investor scams and schemes. State coordinator for LifeSmarts Consumer Education Competitions. Hosts Annual Financial 
Literacy Fair (April), offers free investor education presentations and 
participates in statewide community fairs and events. 
SECURITIES COMPLIANCE BRANCH (SEC)
PHONE:  (808) 586-2722 
WEBSITE:  investing.hawaii.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Registers securities sellers and advisers. Call to 
check if your adviser or broker is registered or has a delinquent 
history. 129
   RESOURCES RESOURCESSECURITIES ENFORCEMENT BRANCH (SEB)
PHONE:  (808) 586-2740  
FRAUD HOTLINE:  (808) 587-2267 
TOLL-FREE:  1-877-447-2267  
WEBSITE:  investing.hawaii.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Investigates and takes legal action on violations of 
Hawaii securities laws. Report investment fraud to the Securities 
Enforcement Branch.  
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMER   AFFAIRS (DCCA) 
Insurance Division  
Insurance Fraud Investigations Branch 
335 Merchant Street, Suite 213, Honolulu, HI 96813 
PHONE:  (808) 586-2790  
FAX:  (808) 587-6714  
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/ins  
EMAIL:  insurance@dcca.hawaii.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Oversees the Hawaii insurance industry, issues 
licenses, examines the fiscal condition of Hawaii-based companies, 
reviews rate and policy filings, investigates insurance-related 
complaints.
INSURANCE FRAUD HOTLINE
PHONE:  (808) 587-7416 
NEIGHBOR ISLAND:  To contact the insurance fraud hotline, 
neighbor island residents may call the following numbers, followed 
by 7-7416 and the # key: HAWAII (808) 974-4000, KAUAI (808) 
274-3141, MAUI (808) 984-2400, LANAI & MOLOKAI TOLL-FREE 
1-800-468-4644.  
WEBSITE:  cca.hawaii.gov/ins  
EMAIL:  insurance@dcca.hawaii.gov
 
DESCRIPTION:  Call to report actual or suspected insurance fraud. 130
   RESOURCESDEPAR TMENT OF HEALTH  
Executive Office on Aging
250 S. Hotel Street, Suite 406, Honolulu, HI 96813  
PHONE:  (808) 586-0100  
FAX:  (808) 586-0185 
WEBSITE:  health.hawaii.gov/eoa  
EMAIL:  eoa@doh.hawaii.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  The Executive Office on Aging (EOA) is the 
designated lead agency in the coordination of a statewide system 
of aging and caregiver support services in the State of Hawaii, as 
authorized by federal and state laws. 
HAWAII AGING AND DISABILITY RESO URCE CENTER (ADRC)
PHONE:  (808) 643-2372 
WEBSITE:  hawaiiadrc.org  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Hawaii’s Aging and Disability Resource Center (ADRC) 
helps older adults, individuals with disabilities, and family caregivers 
find options for long term supports and services available to them in 
the State of Hawaii.  
SENIOR MEDICARE PATROL (SMP) HAWAII
PHONE:  (808) 586-7281 
TOLL-FREE:  1-800-296-9422  
WEBSITE:  smphawaii.org  
EMAIL:  smphi@doh.hawaii.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Since 1997, SMP Hawaii has been providing education 
to Hawaii’s Medicare members and Medicaid recipients, their families, 
and their caregivers about prevention of fraud and abuse in the 
Medicare/Medicaid programs. To volunteer for SMP, contact 586-7319. 131
   RESOURCES RESOURCESDEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES (DHS)  
Adult Protective and Community Services Branch
OAHU:  420 Waiakamilo Road, #202, Honolulu, HI 96817  
PHONE:  (808) 832-5115  
FAX:  (808) 832-5391 
EMAIL:  ssdoahuapcs@dhs.hawaii.gov  
 
HILO:  1055 Kinoole Street, Suite 201, Hilo, HI 96720  
PHONE:  (808) 933-8820 
FAX:  (808) 933-8859 
EMAIL:  ssdeasthipcs@dhs.hawaii.gov  
 
KONA:  75-5995 Kuakini Highway, Suite 433, Kailua-Kona, HI 
96740  
PHONE:  (808) 327-6280  
FAX:  (808) 327-6292 
EMAIL:  ssdwesthipcs@dhs.hawaii.gov  
 
KAUAI:  4370 Kukui Grove Street, Suite 203, Lihue, HI 96766  
PHONE:  (808) 241-3337  
FAX:  (808) 241-3476 
EMAIL:  ssdkauaipcs@dhs.hawaii.gov
MAUI:  1773-B Wili Pa Loop, Wailuku, HI 96793  
PHONE:  (808) 243-5151  
FAX:  (808) 243-5166  
EMAIL:  ssdmauipcs@dhs.hawaii.gov  
 
WEBSITE:  humanservices.hawaii.gov/ssd/home/adult-services/  
 
DESCRIPTION:  The Adult Protective Services (APS) Program 
provides crisis intervention, investigation and emergency services 
to vulnerable adults who are reported to be abused, neglected, or 
financially exploited by others or seriously endangered due to self-neglect.   132
   RESOURCESDEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY  
Narcotics Enforcement Division (NED)
PHONE:  (808) 837-8470 
WEBSITE:  dps.hawaii.gov/about/divisions/law-enforcement-division/  
EMAIL:  hawaiicsreg@ned.hawaii.gov
DESCRIPTION:  The Narcotics Enforcement Division (NED)  is a 
statewide law enforcement agency that serves and protects the 
public by enforcing State laws pertaining to controlled substances 
and regulated chemicals. They are responsible for the registration and control of the manufacture, distribution, prescription, and 
dispensing of controlled substances and precursor or essential 
chemicals within the State. 
NED is also responsible for assuring that pharmaceutical controlled 
substances are used for legitimate medical purposes. They register 
and investigate all violation of persons who administer, prescribe, manufacture or dispense controlled substances in the State, 
including those who work at methadone clinics.  
ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES
1700 G Street, NW, Washington DC 20552  
PHONE:  (800) 677-1116  
 
DESCRIPTION: Find the state or local agencies that receive and 
investigate reports of suspects elder or adult abuse, neglect, or exploitation by contacting the national Eldercare Locator.  
NATIONAL RESOURCES  ned133
   RESOURCES RESOURCESANTI-FRAUD HOTLINE
PHONE:  (855) 303-9470  
WEBSITE:  aging.senate.gov/fraud-hotline  
 
DESCRIPTION:  The Committee’s investigators have experience in 
fraud concerning retirement savings, identity theft, phone scams, 
Medicare, Social Security, and a variety of other consumer issues 
important to seniors and the elderly. 
CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU (CFPB) 
Office For The Older American
1625 Eye Street, NW, Washington DC 20552  
PHONE:  (202) 435-7121  
TOLL-FREE:  (855) 411-2372  
WEBSITE:  consumerfinance.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Ensures that consumers get the information they 
need to make the financial decisions they believe are best for 
themselves and their families—that prices are clear up front, that 
risks are visible, and that nothing is buried in fine print. In a market that works, consumers should be able to make direct comparisons 
among products and no provider should be able to use unfair, 
deceptive, or abusive practices. 
DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (DMA)  
Mail Preference Service
P.O. B ox 643 Carmel, NY 10512  
PHONE:  1-888-567-8688  
WEBSITE:  dmachoice.org  
 
DESCRIPTION: The Direct Marketing Association (DMA) Mail 
Preference Service removes your name and address from 
prospective mailing lists to decrease the amount of junk mail 
received. 134
   RESOURCESFEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI)
OAHU:  91-1300 Enterprise Street, Kapolei, HI 96707  
PHONE:  (808) 566-4300 
FAX:  (808) 566-4470 
 
KONA:  75-5591 Palani Road, Suite 2008A, Kailua-Kona, HI 96740  
PHONE:  (808) 329-5105 
 
MAUI: 2200 Main Street, Wailuku, HI 96793  
PHONE:  (808) 242-4849  
WEBSITE:  fbi.gov/honolulu  
WEBSITE:  fbi.gov/scams-safety/e-scams  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Investigates federal crimes of fraud, theft, 
or embezzlement occurring within or against the national or 
international financial community. 
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)  
Identity Theft Clearinghouse
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20580  
TOLL-FREE:  1-877-438-4338 or 1-866-653-4261 (TTY) 
WEBSITE:  ftc.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION: The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is the only 
agency with both consumer protection and competition jurisdiction in broad sectors of the economy. It provides a place for citizens to 
report consumer complaints that help the FTC investigate frauds that in some cases lead to law enforcement action.  
FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY  
(FINRA)
1735 K Street, Washington, DC 20006  
PHONE:  (301) 590-6500  
WEBSITE:  finra.org  135
   RESOURCES RESOURCESDESCRIPTION: FINRA, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, 
is the largest independent regulator for all securities firms doing 
business in the United States. FINRA touches virtually every aspect 
of the securities business – from registering and educating all industry participants to examining securities firms, writing rules, 
enforcing those rules and the federal securities laws, informing and 
educating the investing public, providing trade reporting and other 
industry utilities, and administering the largest dispute resolution 
forum for investors and firms. If you believe you have been defrauded or treated unfairly by a securities professional or firm, 
please file a complaint online or via mail or fax. See the Complaint 
Center at finra.org  for more information. 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE  
COMMISSIONERS (NAIC)
1100 Walnut Street, Suite 1500, Kansas City, MO 64106  
PHONE:  (816) 783-8300  
FAX:  (816) 460-7593 
WEBSITE:  naic.org  
 
DESCRIPTION: The National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners (NAIC) is the U.S. standard-setting and regulatory 
support organization created and governed by the chief insurance 
regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories.
NATIONAL CRIME PREVENTION COUNCIL (NCPC)
2001 Jefferson Davis Hwy, Suite 901, Arlington, VA 22202-4801  
PHONE:  (202) 466-6272 
FAX:  (202) 296-1356  
WEBSITE:  ncpc.org  and mcgruff.org  
 
DESCRIPTION: Produces tools, including publications and teaching 
materials on a variety of topics, that communities can use to learn crime prevention strategies, engage community members, and coordinate with local agencies. 136
   RESOURCESNATIONAL DO NOT CALL REGISTRY
TOLL-FREE:  1-888-382-1222 or 1-866-290-4236 (TTY) 
WEBSITE:  donotcall.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  The free FTC National Do Not Call Registry will 
stop most telemarketing calls to your home or mobile phone. Most 
telemarketers should not call your number once it has been on the 
registry for 31 days. If they do, you can file a complaint by visiting the website. 
NORTH AMERICAN SECURITIES ADMINISTRATORS 
ASSOCIATION, INC  (NASAA)
750 First Street, N.E., Suite 1140, Washington, DC 20002  
PHONE:  (202) 737-0900  
FAX:  (202) 783-3571 
FAX ON DEMAND:  1-888-846-2722  
WEBSITE:  nasaa.org  
EMAIL:  info@nasaa.org  
 
DESCRIPTION: Organized in 1919, the North American Securities 
Administrators Association (NASAA) is the oldest international 
organization devoted to investor protection. NASAA members license 
firms and their agents, investigate violations of state and provincial law, file enforcement actions when appropriate, and educate the 
public about investment fraud. 
OPTOUT PRESCREEN.COM
P.O. B Ox 2033 A-Rock Island, IL 61204-2033  
TOLL-FREE:  1-888-567-8688  
WEBSITE:  optoutprescreen.com  
 
DESCRIPTION: Enrollment to “Opt-Out” of pre-approved offers of 
credit or insurance from lists supplied by Equifax, Experian, and 
TransUnion. 137
   RESOURCES RESOURCESUNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
Office of Special Investigations  
Detachment 601  
Joint Fraud Program 
265 M cclelland Drive, Hickam Air Force Base, HI 96853  
PHONE:  (808) 449-0259 
FAX:  (808) 449-7759 
EMAIL:  afosi.det601.office@ogn.af.mil  
 
DESCRIPTION: The United States Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations’ (AFOSI) overall mission is to identify, exploit and 
neutralize criminal, terrorist, and intelligence threats to the United 
States Air Force, Department of Defense and the United States Government. Regarding fraudulent activities, AFOSI brings to bear 
a wide range of resources, including technological services and 
specialized techniques to investigate crimes perpetrated against, or 
by, members of the United States Air Force.  
UNIT ED STATES ATTORNEY’S OFFICE 
District of Hawaii 
300 A la Moana Boulevard, Suite 6-100, Honolulu, HI 96850  
PHONE:  (808) 541-2850 
FAX:  (808) 541-2958 
WEBSITE:  usdoj.gov/usao/hi
DESCRIPTION: The U.S. Attorney’s Office handles federal criminal 
prosecution on identity theft, fraud and financial abuse of the elderly. It also has a community outreach program that attends 
neighborhood meetings, talks, trainings, and school lectures regarding awareness and prevention of abuse. At times, other federal 
law enforcement agencies participate in this community outreach 
program. The U.S. Attorney’s Office normally prosecutes cases that 
are referred by a federal law enforcement agency. 138
   RESOURCES UNITED STATES COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING 
COMMISSION (CFTC)
1155 21 st Street, NW, Washington DC 20581  
PHONE:  (202) 418-5000  
TOLL-FREE:  1-866-366-2382  
WEBSITE:  www.smartcheck.gov
DESCRIPTION: The mission of the CFTC is to protect investors, 
traders and the public from fraud in the commodity futures and 
options markets. It accomplishes this by educating consumers 
about the futures markets, notifying the public about potential and ongoing frauds, offering guidance on how to file a complaint or tip, 
and taking disciplinary actions against those who violate rules or 
laws.
UNITED  STATES DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN     SERVICES (HHS)  
Medicare  
Centers For Medicare & Medicaid Services
7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244  
TOLL-FREE:  1-800-633-4227 or 1-877-486-2048 (TTY) 
WEBSITE:  medicare.gov
DESCRIPTION: Provides information and assistance to the public on 
Medicare benefits, complaints, appeals, and fraud and abuse in the 
Medicare system.
UNITED STA TES DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN     SERVICES (HHS)  
Office Of The Inspector General (OIG)
200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201  
TOLL-FREE:  1-800-447-8477 or 1-800-377-4950 (TTY) 
FAX:  1-800-223-8164  139
   RESOURCES RESOURCESWEBSITE:  hhs.gov   
EMAIL:  hhstips@oig.hhs.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Operates a hotline to receive calls concerning fraud 
against programs of the department such as Medicare Part-A and 
Medicare Part-B, and crimes involving departmental employees and 
contractors.   
 
 UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
Office Of The Inspector General (OIG)  
Investigations Division 
950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Room 4706, Washington, DC 20530 
PHONE:  (202) 616-4760  
TOLL-FREE:  1-800-869-4499  
OIG PUBLIC COMMENT LINE:  (202) 353-1555  
WEBSITE:  justice.gov/oig  
EMAIL:  oig.hotline@usdoj.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  Conducts independent investigations, audits, 
inspections, and special reviews of United States Department 
of Justice personnel and programs to detect and deter waste, 
fraud, abuse, and misconduct, and to promote integrity, economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in Department of Justice operations.  
  
 
UNIT ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY 
Go Direct Processing Center - MS/GDW
P.O. B Ox 650527 Dallas, TX 75265-0527 
TOLL-FREE:  1-800-333-1795  
WEBSITE:  godirect.gov  
EMAIL:  godirectsupport@godirect.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Enrollment for direct deposit of your Social Security, 
Supplemental Security Income (SSI), Veterans, Railroad Retirement 
or Civil Service Benefits.  140
   RESOURCESUNITED STATES POSTAL INSPECTION SERVICES
P.O. B Ox 882528 San Francisco, CA 94188-2528 
PHONE:  (877) 876-2455  
  PRESS 3: For Mail Theft 
  PRESS 4: For Mail Fraud 
WEBSITE:  postalinspectors.uspis.gov  
 
DESCRIPTION:  The United States Postal Inspection Service’s 
mission is to protect the U.S. Postal Service, secure the mail 
system, and ensure public trust in mail. Enforces over 200 federal 
laws in investigations of crimes that affect or fraudulently use the U.S. Mail, the postal system, or postal employees. Presentations 
to communities on mail theft, mail fraud, ID theft, and crime 
prevention topics are available. 
UNITED  STATES SECRET SERVICE 
Hawaii Office
Prince Jonah Kuhio Kalanianaole Federal Building, 300 Ala Moana 
Boulevard, Suite 6-210, Honolulu, HI 96850  
PHONE:  (808) 541-1912 
FAX:  (808) 545-4490 
WEBSITE:  secretservice.gov
DESCRIPTION:  Investigates financial and identity theft crimes such 
as bank fraud, access device fraud, false identification fraud, and 
identity theft.  
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE     COMMISSION (SEC)  
Office of Investor Education and Advocacy  
Investor Complaint Center
100 F S treet, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-0213  
PHONE:  (202) 551-6551  141
   RESOURCES RESOURCESTOLL-FREE:  1-800-732-0330  
FAX:  (202) 772-9395  
WEBSITE:  sec.gov/complaint.shtml  
EMAIL:  help@sec.gov
DESCRIPTION:  If you encounter a problem with an investment 
or have a question, you can contact the SEC’s Office of Investor 
Education and Advocacy.
 UNITE D STATES SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION     (SSA)  
Honolulu Office
Prince Jonah Kuhio Kalanianaole Federal Building, 300 Ala Moana 
Boulevard, Suite 1-114, Honolulu, HI 96850  
TOLL-FREE:  1-800-772-1213 or 1-800-325-0778 (TTY) 
WEBSITE:  ssa.gov  
 
TO REPORT FRAUD:  1-800-269-0271 (10am-4pm EST) 
TO REPORT VIA WEBSITE:  oig.ssa.gov/report
DESCRIPTION:  Provides a place for citizens to assist their social 
security benefits, make changes to their social security records, and report potential fraud involving the social security programs. 142MAHALO
This guide is brought to you by:
Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs 
Office of the Securities Commissioner
Department of Health 
Executive Office on Aging, 
Senior Medicare Patrol (SMP Hawaii) Program  
Department of the Attorney General  
Crime Prevention and Justice Assistance Division
