Source URL: https://www.aviation.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawaii Aviation Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Director Hawaii Aviation An Archive of Historic Photos and Facts Search this site Search button Home Site Map Contact Hawaii’s Aviation History Welcome aboard! As the Crossroads of the Pacific, Hawaii played a vital role in the development of both commercial and military air travel. The first flight in Hawaii occurred on December 31, 1910. It captured the imagination and hearts of residents who dreamed of traveling by air between islands and the Mainland, Asia and Australia. On this site you’ll find the incredible story of the first trans-Pacific flight by Navy Commander John Rodgers in 1925. Inter-Island Airways made its first commercial inter-island flight in 1929, and Pan American Airways entered the trans-Pacific market in 1935. You’ll find numerous historical documents, and information about the book, Above the Pacific , written by the late Lieutenant Colonel William Joseph Horvat and originally published in 1966. This website features more than 4,000 photos from the collections of the Hawaii Department of Transportation, Hawaii State Archives, Hickam Air Force Base, the U.S. Army Museum of Hawaii, the U. S. Naval History Center, Marine Corp Base Hawaii and private collections. We welcome additions to our collection. Aviation History Highlights J.C. “BUD” MARS On December 19, 1910, a “real birdman” arrived in Honolulu aboard the Manchuria. Whipple Hall, agent for the Curtiss Aircraft Company, debarked with an excitingly strange proposal. He announced that within a week two airplanes and men to fly them would arrive by ship. Hawaii was to be the first stop on the group’s 30,000-mile demonstration tour which included Japan, China, the Philippines, Siam, Singapore, Java, Persia, Africa, the Holy Land, Egypt, Spain, France, England, and “anywhere else bird men had not been seen before.” Continue Reading J.C. “BUD” MARS News Above the Pacific by Lieutenant Colonel William Joseph Horvat We are happy to announce that we are able to share a PDF copy of the out-of-print book, Above the Pacific by Lieutenant Colonel William Joseph Horvat. Our deepest gratitude goes out to the Horvat family for allowing us to do so. Continue Reading Above the Pacific by Lieutenant Colonel William Joseph Horvat Read More Entries from News Policies Terms of Use Terms of Use of Media Accessibility Privacy Policy List [email protected] Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions Please read the following Terms & Conditions of Use carefully before using this website. You are required to expressly accept the following Terms and Conditions of Use, without any modifications, prior to each use of this website. The State of Hawaii Department of Transportation Airport Division (the “HDOTA”) may revise the Terms and Conditions of Use without any specific notice to you. The Terms and Conditions of Use posted at the time of your use of this website governs that use. If you do not agree with any part of the following Terms and Conditions of Use, you will not be permitted to use this website. The images and other content, (the “Media”), on this site, https://aviation.hawaii.gov , are protected under applicable intellectual property laws. Unless otherwise stated, intellectual property rights in the website are administered by HDOTA on behalf of itself and the State of Hawaii. FOR MEDIA USE PLEASE NOTE: You are prohibited from using the Media for any commercial purpose. Any use, whether or not commercial, that may tend to degrade, tarnish the reputation of, or embarrass the content creator (photographer, videographer etc.), the State of Hawaii, or HDOTA is strictly prohibited. FOR ALL USE: The following are general examples of what Media may not be used for or in connection with. The following list is not exhaustive. Taking or attempting to take Media for commercial, marketing, self-promotion, or novelty applications; Taking or attempting to take any action that results in editing or altering images -cropping is acceptable; Taking or attempting to take any action that compromises the website; Taking or attempting to take any action that involves reprinting on coffee table books, garments, posters, mugs, or any medium. You agree that, upon notice from HDOTA, you will immediately cease all use of the Media and, to the extent possible, remove all Media from any and all materials in which they appear. Credit is required for each of the Media as specified on this website. Credit must be placed adjacent to any use of the Media. You, your successors and assigns, agree to release, indemnify and defend HDOTA and the State of Hawaii from and against all costs, liability, loss, damage, and expense, including all attorneys’ fees, and all claims, suits, and demands therefor, arising out of or resulting from your acts or omissions under these Terms & Conditions of Use and your use of the Media.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
