Source URL: https://bh808.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Overview - State of Hawaiʻi, Department of Health Skip to content State of Hawaiʻi, Department of Health Behavioral Health Dashboard Overview Substance Use (SU) Mental Health (MH) Co-Occurring SU/MH Crisis Reports DOSE Site Reports Fact Sheets About About the Dashboard Overdose to Action (OD2A) About the Data Help Contact Us Feedback Walkthrough State of Hawaiʻi, Department of Health Behavioral Health Dashboard Main Menu Overview Substance Use (SU) Mental Health (MH) Co-Occurring SU/MH Crisis Reports Menu Toggle DOSE Site Reports Fact Sheets About Menu Toggle About the Dashboard Overdose to Action (OD2A) About the Data Help Menu Toggle Contact Us Feedback Walkthrough State of Hawaiʻi Behavioral Health Dashboard Examining Substance Use, Mental Health, and Crisis Care Walkthrough Feedback Contact Us E Komo Mai (Welcome) We hope this website will help you to better understand Hawaiʻi’s current behavioral health trends and needs, with a focus on drug overdose, polysubstance use, co-occurring substance use, and mental health, including crisis care. If this is your first visit please see the walkthrough on navigating and using the dashboards. Statewide Substance Use (SU), Mental Health (MH), and Crisis Summary To access more details about any of the below indicators click on the “Explore More” button on the indicator’s card and you will be transferred to the corresponding dashboard. Available Hawaiʻi Behavioral Health Dashboards Substance Use (SU) The substance use dashboard contains information about hospitalizations and overdose deaths occurring within the state. Access Data Mental Health (MH) The mental health dashboard contains information related to the occurrence of reported mental health incidents within the state. Access Data Co-Occurring This dashboard shows information about the presence of substance use and mental health related to hospitalization and overdoses. Access Data Crisis The Crisis dashboard relays information related to crisis incidents tracked by the crisis phone lines and DOH services. Access Data Website owned and managed by the Hawai'i State Department of Health Funders Funding for this dashboard was made possible by the Overdose Data to Action cooperative agreement from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The views expressed do not necessarily reflect the official policies of the federal Department of Health and Human Services; nor does mention of trade names, commercial practices, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government. Copyright © 2022, State of Hawaiʻi. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
