Source URL: https://coral.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Division of Aquatic Resources | Hawai‘i’s Coral Reefs Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov DLNR Home Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaiʻi Division of Aquatic Resources Search this site Search button Facebook icon Youtube icon Instagram icon Home Fishing Licenses and Permits Regulations Commercial Fishing Bottom Fishing Freshwater Fishing Artificial Reefs and FADs Hawai‘i Marine Recreational Fishing Survey (HMRFS) Fishing Around Protected Species FAQ’s Licenses & Permits Habitat Coral Reefs Coral Reefs Coral and Live Rock Rules of Hawaii Coral Reef Program Streams Species Marine Protected Species Marine Protected Species Hawaiian Monk Seal Sea Turtles Sharks and Rays Whales and Dolphins Report Marine Debris PSP Staff Contacts Sharks Invasives Marine Managed Areas About Marine Managed Areas Hawai’i Marine Life Conservation Districts Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary (HIHWNMS) Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument Education Holomua Blog Home » Hawai‘i’s Coral Reefs Hawai‘i’s Coral Reefs Hanau Kumulipo i ka po, he kane. Hanau Po‘ele i ka po, he wahine. Hanau ka ‘Uku-ko‘ako‘a, hanau kana, he ‘Ako‘ako‘a, puka. Born was Kumulipo in the night, a male. Born was Po‘ele in the night, a female. Born was the coral polyp, born was the coral, came forth. Click on the image above to watch the 30-second video. The reef gives us life The Kumulipo, the ancient Hawaiian creation chant, tells us that the coral polyp (ko‘a) was the first living thing created. Early Hawaiians understood and deeply appreciated the critical role that coral plays in our natural environment and in sustaining the people of Hawaiʻi. through food that we eat, In the Kumulipo, the creation of coral was followed by other marine invertebrates (urchins, sea cucumbers, sea stars, etc.), and later fish and marine mammals. The importance of coral is reinforced as the foundation of our nearshore ecosystems, which includes providing sustenance to people. and protection that it provides. Coral reefs are well known for providing coastal protection from wave energy. They are natural breakwaters which reduce impacts of waves, including seismic sea waves (tsunamis) and those generated by hurricanes. But they can protect us from disease, too. Antiviral and anticancer drugs have been developed from reef organisms, and research continues to unlock other potential medical uses. But the reef is fragile. Coral polyps are delicate animals, and reefs are among the most fragile ecosystems on the planet. Polyps surround themselves with hard calcium carbonate skeletons for protection, but a thin tissue layer spreads over the surface of coral colonies (or heads), connecting polyps to each other. This tissue layer is easily damaged by contact, which can result in infection and disease. Corals are also susceptible to bleaching, climate change, and pollution. So we must protect it. Avoid damaging it, and use reef-safe sunscreen. Avoid standing on, touching, or trampling corals. When snorkeling, be aware of your fins and the space around you. Use sunscreen with no oxybenzone or octinoxate. Anchor only in sand or rubble, or use mooring buoys. Keep trash off beaches and away from streams. Keep chemicals and other pollutants from entering streams and storm drains. Take care of the ocean, and it will take care of you. About Us Reports Publications Interact Contact Us Feedback Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Links 808.587.0100 [email protected] Kāne‘ohe Bay Regional Council Ballast Water to DLNR to Sports Fishing Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
