Source URL: https://covid19.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Respiratory Viruses | Disease Outbreak Control Division For Providers Contact Us Archive State of Hawaii, Department of Health | Ka ʻOihana Olakino Disease Outbreak Control Division Home Vaccines & Immunizations Recommendations by Age Infants & Toddlers Preteens & Adolescents Adults School Health Requirements Vaccine-Preventable Seasonal Flu Traveler’s Health Hawaii Immunization Registry (HIR) Stop Flu at School (SFAS) Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program Vaccine Locator Diseases Diseases A-Z Disease Types Animal-Transmitted Bioterrorism-Related Bloodborne Common Infections Environmental Foodborne Healthcare & Hospital-Transmitted Influenza Mosquito-Transmitted Pest-Transmitted Recreation-Related Respiratory Viruses Sexually Transmitted Travel-Related Vaccine-Preventable Waterborne Prevention Vaccines Handwashing and Hand Hygiene Using Antibiotics Wisely Mosquito Bite Prevention Traveler’s Health Natural Disasters and Pandemics Bioterrorism, Chemical, Radiological, and Nuclear Emergencies Reporting an Illness Restaurant-Related Individual School-Related Long-Term Care-Related For Healthcare Providers Resources Traveler’s Health Vaccine Locator Disaster Preparedness Reports School Assessment Reports Influenza and Respiratory Reports Healthcare Associated Infections (HAIs) Reports Summary of Reported Cases of Notifiable Diseases Conferences Print Materials Video/Digital Materials Disease Factsheets CDC National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) News Archive Lab Reporting Schools Reporting COVID-19, Influenza, and Gastrointestinal Illness Outbreak Reporting Tool for DOE Schools Outbreak Reporting Tool for Private, Independent, and Charter Schools COVID-19 School Guidance Respiratory Viruses Respiratory Virus Guidance COVID-19 Mpox (Monkeypox) DOH HOME Respiratory Viruses Diseases A-Z Disease Types Animal-Transmitted Bioterrorism-Related Bloodborne Common Infections Environmental Foodborne Healthcare & Hospital-Transmitted Influenza Mosquito-Transmitted Pest-Transmitted Recreation-Related Respiratory Viruses Sexually Transmitted Travel-Related Vaccine-Preventable Waterborne Diseases A-Z Disease Types Animal-Transmitted Bioterrorism-Related Bloodborne Common Infections Environmental Foodborne Healthcare & Hospital-Transmitted Influenza Mosquito-Transmitted Pest-Transmitted Recreation-Related Respiratory Viruses Sexually Transmitted Travel-Related Vaccine-Preventable Waterborne Report a Case Disease Reporting Line: (808) 586-4586 Staying Safe from Respiratory Viruses Respiratory viruses circulate throughout the year in Hawaii. They can cause symptoms like runny nose, cough, and sometimes fever, often thought of as “flu-like” or “common cold” symptoms. They can also cause severe disease in some people. We can all help prevent the spread of respiratory viruses.  Get immunized. Stay up to date on your flu, COVID-19, and RSV vaccines.  Stay home when sick. Stay home until fever-free for 24 hours without using fever reducing medication AND other symptoms are mild and improving.  Wear a mask. Wearing a mask when you are indoors with other people is a precaution you can take at any time. Wearing a mask helps protect you and those around you.  Practice good hygiene. Cover your coughs and sneezes, clean frequently touched surfaces, and wash your hands often.  Take steps for cleaner air. Open doors or windows to bring in fresh outside air, purify indoor air or gather outdoors.  Test and treat. If you have cold or flu symptoms, and are at higher risk for severe disease, knowing what illness you have can help get you the right treatment. Antiviral medications for COVID-19 and flu work best when taken as soon as possible and are recommended for those at higher risk. Additional Resources: Respiratory Virus Guidance | CDC Immunization Schedules | CDC Vaccines.gov – Find COVID‑19 vaccine locations near you Vaccines.gov – Search for flu vaccine locations Germs Can Live in the Respiratory System Respiratory Virus Q & A Should I wear a mask? Wearing a mask is usually a personal decision (it may be required in some settings). Here are some things that can help you decide whether to wear a mask: Wearing a well-fitted mask that fully covers your nose and mouth helps protect you from breathing in other people’s germs. Wearing a mask helps protect others from breathing in your germs. You can be contagious before you feel sick. Wearing a mask helps prevent accidental spread to others even when you feel well. Wearing a mask helps protect someone else’s loved one, who may be at higher risk of severe disease . When should I wear a mask? Here are some circumstances in which a mask is a good idea: When you are around others if you have cold or flu symptoms (e.g., runny nose, sore throat, cough) or are recovering from respiratory illness. If you test positive for COVID-19, wear a mask for 5 days after your fever is gone and you start to feel better. Masking for 10 days after a positive COVID-19 test is recommended if you have regular contact with someone who is at higher-risk. If you or someone you live with, care for, or spend time with is at higher-risk, consider wearing a mask in crowded indoor spaces or when you may not be able to maintain distance from others. If you were exposed to someone with cold and flu symptoms, consider masking if you are in a crowded indoor space or if you are in contact with someone who is higher risk. Everyone should consider masking in indoor public spaces when respiratory viral disease rates are high in your community . What mask should I wear? The most effective mask is one you can wear comfortably and correctly: Choose the most protective one that fully covers your nose and mouth and that you can comfortably wear for extended periods of time. The type of mask and how well it fits your face affects how well it reduces the number of germs you breathe in or out. N95, KN95, or KF94 masks can be purchased at drugstores, hardware stores, and online. They offer more protection than surgical masks or cloth face covering. Is there anyone who should not wear a mask? Masks are not recommended for: Children under 2 years People with sensory, cognitive, or behavioral issues for whom wearing a mask might be difficult Anyone having trouble breathing or who is unconscious, incapacitated, or unable to remove a mask without help What if I’m at higher risk for severe disease? Those at higher risk for severe disease (including kūpuna, those with weakened immune systems, and pregnant people) can take additional steps to protect themselves. Get vaccinated! Some vaccinations have specific guidelines for people in high risk groups. Vaccine Populations with specialized guidelines COVID-19 Adults 65 and older Immunocompromised people RSV Adults 60 and older Infants Pregnant people Influenza Adults 65 and older Children aged 6 months through 8 years receiving the flu vaccine for the first time Wear a mask any time you are in crowded indoor spaces, especially when you cannot maintain physical distancing. If you start having symptoms, get tested. Knowing what illness you have can help get you the right treatment. If you are sick with COVID-19 or influenza, antiviral treatments can help you feel better faster and reduce the risk of complications. Antiviral medications for COVID-19 and influenza work best when taken as soon as possible. Who is at higher risk for severe disease? Kūpuna Older adults are at higher risk for hospitalization, complications, and death from many respiratory viral diseases, including COVID-19, influenza, and RSV. Young keiki Infants under 6 months of age have similar COVID-19 hospitalization rates to older adults. Children under 5 years old, and especially infants, are at higher risk of hospitalization or complications from influenza and RSV . People with weakened immune systems People with weakened immune systems (also referred to as immunocompromised) may not be able to fight off infections as well as others and may not have developed strong immunity against infections from vaccinations. This group includes, but is not limited to, people undergoing cancer treatment, people who have received organ transplants, and people with chronic immune deficiencies. People with certain medical conditions such as: Cancer Diabetes Chronic lung disease Heart disease Disabilities that increase risk People who live in congregate facilities, such as: Skilled nursing facility Correctional facility Shelter Pregnant people Pregnancy can cause changes to the immune system, heart, and lungs, placing pregnant people at higher risk for severe disease. What if I live with, care for, or have regular contact with someone who is at high risk for severe disease? How can I protect them? Take preventive measures: Get vaccinated, practice good hygiene, take steps for cleaner air, and wear a mask when you are in indoor crowded places or unable to physically distance. If you have been exposed to someone with cold and flu symptoms: Wear a well-fitted mask when you are indoors with the higher risk person. It can take as long as 4-6 days for symptoms to develop after an exposure, so it’s a good idea to wear a mask for at least that long after you’ve been exposed. If you develop cold and flu symptoms: Stay away from those at high risk. If you’re unable to avoid higher risk individuals, wear a well-fitted mask, wash your hands frequently, and open doors and windows to increase air flow as much as possible. Continue to wear a mask for at least 5 days after symptoms are improving and you have not had a fever for 24 hours without use of a fever-lowering medication. Take a COVID-19 test. If you test positive for COVID-19: Follow all of the above guidelines for a full 10 days . You can stop after 5 days IF you test negative on two home tests in a row taken at least 24 hours apart. Additional guidance is available to prevent and control the spread of infections in healthcare settings: Infection Control: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) | CDC Prevention Strategies for Seasonal Influenza in Healthcare Settings | CDC Project Firstline Ventilation and Infection Control in Healthcare COVID-19 Respiratory Droplets Job Aid Project FirstLine Risk Poster 1 Project FirstLine Risk Poster 2 Episode 4: What’s a Respiratory Droplet? Why Does it Matter? Episode 5: How do Viruses Make You Sick? Episode 6: How Do Viruses Spread From Surfaces To People? Episode 9: What is Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)? Episode 16: Cleaning? Disinfection? What is the Difference? Episode 21: Do We Really Have to Talk About Hand Hygiene? Again? Yes! Episode 22: Why Does Contact Time Matter for Disinfection? More Information on Specific Respiratory Viruses Adenovirus Coronaviruses (Common Cold Viruses) COVID-19 Influenza (Flu) Parainfluenza Parvovirus B19 (Fifth Disease) Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Rhinovirus (Common Cold) Infection Control Action for Respiratory Viruses Hawaiʻi Reports and Dashboards  COVID-19 Dashboard  Influenza and Respiratory Surveillance Reports Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved. Follow Follow Follow

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://www.cdc.gov/project-firstline/media/pdfs/Healthcare-Germs-Body-RespiratorySystem-508.pdf) ---
GERMS CAN 
LIVE IN THE  
RESPIRATORY  
SYSTEM.
WWW.CDC.GOV/PROJECTFIRSTLINE
• When an infected person talks, breathes, sneezes, or 
coughs, they produce respiratory droplets that could spread germs.
• Germs are more likely to spread in places with poor ventilation or lots of people.
• When people touch their faces, respiratory germs on their hands can end up in their eyes, nose, or mouth and cause an infection.WHERE IS THE RISK?
Know where germs live to stop spread 
and protect patientsBacteria and 
Viruses Can  Live in the:
• Mouth
• Throat
• Airway
• Lungs
Healthcare Tasks Involving  the Respiratory System
• Aerosol-generating procedures (AGPs), 
such as intubation and extubation
• Activities with close interaction within an enclosed space, such as talking or examining a patient’s throat
Infection Control Actions  
to Reduce Risk 
• Screening and triage
• Use of personal protective equipment
• Source control
• Maintaining good ventilation
• Hand hygiene
• Cleaning and disinfection of shared 
equipment
Group A Strep

--- Text from PDF (https://www.cdc.gov/project-firstline/media/pdfs/Thousands-of-Germs-Poster-1-508.pdf) ---
WWW.CDC.GOV/PROJECTFIRSTLINERecognize the risks. 
Protect your patients.
Cited paper: Chirca, I. (2019). The hospital environment and its microbial burden: challenges and solutions.  Future Microbiology, 14, 1007–1010.There are thousands of 
germs on this poster  ...
and everywhere else.

--- Text from PDF (https://www.cdc.gov/project-firstline/media/pdfs/Thousands-of-Germs-Poster-2-508.pdf) ---
WWW.CDC.GOV/PROJECTFIRSTLINE
Cited paper: Chirca, I. (2019). The hospital environment and its microbial 
burden: challenges and solutions. Future Microbiology, 14, 1007–1010.
There are thousands  
of germs on this poster  ...
and everywhere else.
Recognize the risks. 
Protect your patients.
Bacteria found on mobile phone, including 
E. coli, Haemophilus influenzae, and MRSA. 
Photo and description credit: SciePro/iStock via Getty Images

--- Text from PDF (https://www.cdc.gov/project-firstline/media/pdfs/Respiratory-Actions-508.pdf) ---
U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention cdc.gov/ProjectFirstline When used 
correctly, 
respirators 
ﬁlter germs – 
very large to 
very small – as 
air is breathed 
in and out. Masks 
block 
these 
germs. Respiratory viruses 
can be in the nose, 
mouth, airway , 
and lungs. 
Talking, sneezing, and 
coughing can spre ad 
these germs into the air . Infection Control Actions to stop the spread of 
viral respiratory infections like inﬂuenza, RSV, and COVID-19 . 
Wearing mask s 
and respirators 
in healthcare facilities will pr otect you, 
your patients, and 
your cowork ers. 
U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention cdc.gov/ProjectFirstline 
Alcohol-based 
sanitizer 
inactivates viral particles. HandHygiene EnvironmentalDisinfection 
Soap and 
water 
carry viral 
particles off the 
skin. Hand hygiene and routine cle aning & disinfection 
help remove or destr oy 
respiratory viruses. 
EPA-register ed 
disinfecting pr oducts 
destroy the virus. How? 
Practicing these 
infection control 
actions together 
effectively stops the 
spre ad of germs. Infection Control Actions to stop the spread of 
viral respiratory infections like inﬂuenza, RSV, and COVID-19 .
