Source URL: https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/education/

TEXT CONTENT:
Division of Aquatic Resources | Education Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov DLNR Home Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaiʻi Division of Aquatic Resources Search this site Search button Facebook icon Youtube icon Instagram icon Home Fishing Licenses and Permits Regulations Commercial Fishing Bottom Fishing Freshwater Fishing Artificial Reefs and FADs Hawai‘i Marine Recreational Fishing Survey (HMRFS) Fishing Around Protected Species FAQ’s Licenses & Permits Habitat Coral Reefs Coral Reefs Coral and Live Rock Rules of Hawaii Coral Reef Program Streams Species Marine Protected Species Marine Protected Species Hawaiian Monk Seal Sea Turtles Sharks and Rays Whales and Dolphins Report Marine Debris PSP Staff Contacts Sharks Invasives Marine Managed Areas About Marine Managed Areas Hawai’i Marine Life Conservation Districts Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary (HIHWNMS) Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument Education Holomua Blog Home » Education Education DAR’s education program is designed to: Enhance public understanding of Hawai‘i’s aquatic environments. Develop responsible attitudes and a sense of stewardship toward Hawai‘i’s aquatic resources. Encourage public involvement in conservation issues. Promote safe and ethical aquatic resource-based recreation. Posters and Reference Materials Click on the thumbnail image to download a letter-size pdf version of the poster (335-700 KB), Tidepool and Shallow Reef field identification guide (1 MB), or Native Stream Animals fact sheet (4.6 MB). Posters are available for a nominal fee ($5) at DAR offices only. Sorry, we can’t honor mail order requests. For Kids Play the game “Kapu” and save the reef with your pet shark. Click on the image below to get started. You can also get the game as a free app called “Reef Defender” for iPad or Android . Download a copy of “The Keiki Angler” (25 pages, pdf, 1.9 MB) or “Why is Hawaii’s Ocean Important? A Keiki Activity Book” (25 pages, pdf, 2.8 MB). For Teachers DAR education specialists are available to conduct or assist with various teacher workshops, and for classroom presentations and field experiences on topics related to fisheries management and conservation. Teachers can obtain instructional materials, including posters and identification cards, at no cost from Division offices. Videos for Teachers We’ve gone back into our archives and pulled out three videos from the 1990’s that we hope teachers will find useful, as their content is timeless. Sadly, some of the people appearing in these videos have since passed away. • Hawaiian Waters: House of the Shark provides information on shark biology, safety, and cultural significance. • Hawaiian Waters: The Mauka-Makai Lifeline covers stream ecosystems and native stream species. • Nick and Miki’s Semi-Incredible Fishing Adventure features the late Mike Sakamoto teaching a couple of youngsters the basics of shoreline and boat fishing. Fishing Education The Fishing Education program is designed to enhance interest in and concern for freshwater and nearshore marine environments by introducing children and adults to fishing. Emphasis is on conservation and catch-and-release fishing. Topics include fishing gear and methods, fish biology and habitat, fishing safety, conservation, and fisheries management. DAR education specialists work with schools, scouts, community groups, and others, and provide instructional materials, fishing gear, and technical expertise. Available resources include the books “The Keiki Angler” (link above) and “Fishing in Hawai‘i: A Student Manual” (view or download by clicking on the image at right, approx. 4.7 MB). Outreach Education specialists are available for talks on various aquatic resource topics to community groups, fishing clubs, and other interested groups. We also participate in numerous public events, such as fairs, Earth Day celebrations, boat shows, etc. with displays and giveaways. Please contact the education specialist on your island for more information. The education program also produces and airs 30-second conservation messages on television, which can be viewed on our Public Service Announcements page and the education program’s YouTube channel . Education staff See our contacts page for mailing addresses. Island Staff Title Phone Email Kaua‘i Vacant Education Specialist O‘ahu Charles Lee Education Specialist 808.953.8719 [email protected] Maui County Adam Wong Education Specialist 808.243.5294 [email protected] Big Island John Kahiapo Education Specialist 808.961.9530 [email protected] The Division of Aquatic Resources’ Education Program is supported by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Sport Fish Restoration Program, which provides funding to states for a large number of aquatic resource education activities. About Us Reports Publications Interact Contact Us Feedback Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Links 808.587.0100 [email protected] Kāne‘ohe Bay Regional Council Ballast Water to DLNR to Sports Fishing Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/files/2014/04/tidepool.pdf) ---
Hawaiian Tidepool and Shallow Reef Identification
Coralline algae  
Porolithon spp. Ear seaweed
Padina japonicaLimu pa ¯lahalaha 
Ulva fasciataLimu kala   
Sargassum echinocarpum
Hu‘ahu‘a   
SpongeZoanthid 
Palythoa tuberculosaPo¯haku puna 
Lobe coral  
Porites lobataKo‘a
Lace coral   
Pocillopora damicornis
Ko‘a   
Rice coral   
Montipora capitataKio po‘apo‘ai
Featherduster worm
Sabellastarte sanctijosephiKauna ‘oa   
Spaghetti worm
Loimia medusaKo‘e
Fireworm 
Pherecardia striata
Pu¯p u¯k o¯ lea
Periwinkle snail
Littorina sp.Pipipi
Black nerite snail
Nerita picea‘Opihi ‘awa
False ‘opihi
Siphonaria normalisLeho kupa
Snakehead cowry
Cypraea caputserpentisPu¯p u¯ ‘ala¯
Cone snail
Conus lividus
Kualakai
Sea hare
Stylocheilus longicaudusSpanish dancer 
nudibranch
Hexabranchus sanguineusWana
Long-spined 
venomous urchin
Echinothrix spp.‘Ina ‘ula
Rock-boring 
sea urchin
Echinometra mathaei‘Ina ‘ele‘ele
Rock-boring 
sea urchin
Echinometra oblongaSafety First!
•Check water conditions - watch out for strong surf and currents.
•Wear proper footgear with grip on soles - fishermen’s tabis are best; old  
sneakers, reef shoes and diving booties are okay. DO NOT wear rubber 
slippers or sandals.
•Beware of sharp or slippery rocks. 
•Walk slowly and watch for holes, crevices and drop-offs on the reef.
•Don’t put your hands or feet in holes or under ledges where you can’t see.
Be careful of dangerous marine life, particularly those shown on this card. 
•If you don’t know what something is, don’t touch it.
•Protect yourself from the sun.Pe‘a
Brittlestar
Ophiocoma sp.Loli
Black sea cucumber
Holothuria atraLoli
White speckled sea cucumber
Actinopyga mauritiana
‘O¯pae huna
Banded coral shrimp 
Stenopus hispidusAloalo
Mantis shrimp
Gonodactylus sp.
Aloalo
Ghost shrimp
Family Callianassidae
Hermit crab
Calcinus seurati
Unauna
Anemone hermit crab
Dardanus gemmatusPa¯pa‘i
Pebble crab
Family Xanthidae
‘A‘ama
Rock crab
Grapsus tenuicrustatus
‘Ala‘eke
Swimming crab
Thalamita sp.Ku¯honu
Swimming crab
Charybdis hawaiiensis
Be a Good Reef Visitor!
•Walk carefully and watch your step - use your lookbox; many sea creatures   
are fragile and you could crush them.
•Move slowly so you see more.
•Look more than you touch - try not to disturb creatures or their living places.
•If you touch, do it gently - use just one finger, and always keep animals in  
the water.
•Return rocks to their original positions.
•Leave animals where you found them, and please don’t collect unnecessarily.
•If you pick seaweeds, pinch, don’t pull.
•Collect trash - leave the area cleaner than when you arrived.A¯holehole
Hawaiian flagtail   
Kuhlia sandvicensisKu¯p ı¯pı¯
Blackspot sergeant damselfish   
Abudefduf sordidus
Mamo 
Hawaiian sergeant damselfish
Abudefduf abdominalisNohu ‘omakaha 
Devil scorpionfish
Scorpaenopsis diabolis
‘O‘opu ‘ohune
Brown tidepool goby
Bathygobius cocosensis
Pa¯o‘o
Zebra blenny
Istiblennius zebraPuhi ka ¯pa¯
Snowflake moray eel
Echidna nebulosaPuhi lau milo
Undulated moray eel
Gymnothorax undulatus
Produced by the Education Program 
Division of Aquatic Resources Department of Land and Natural Resourcesin association with the Waikı
¯kı¯AquariumFunded in part by the Federal Aid in Sport Fish
Restoration Program through your purchase of
fishing equipment and motor boat fuels.
Designed & illustrated by Les Hata
©1998 Hawaii Division of Aquatic Resources

--- Text from PDF (https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/files/2017/08/native_stream_animals.pdf) ---
9435_SH_DLNR_Fact Sheet.indd   1 8/7/17   9:49 AM‘O‘opu hi‘u kole (‘alamo‘o)
Lentipes concolor
Juveniles and females uniform
olive to brown coloration;males have black heads andorange tails. Length to 5 inches.Usually middle to upperstream reaches. Feeds on plantand animal matter.Endemic.‘O‘opu nōpili
Sicyopterus stimpsoni
Variable coloration; juveniles
and females mottled brown orgray; males often striped, andhave pronounced dorsal fin.length to 7 inches.Usually middle stream reaches; prefers fast flowing water.Feeds on algae growing on rocks.Endemic.‘O‘opu nākea
Awaous guamensis
Mottled brown and black, white 
belly; vertical stripes on dorsal andcaudal fins; darkpatch oncaudal peduncle. Length to 14 inch-es.Usually lower to middle stream reaches. Feeds on algae, worms, snails, and other bottom dwelling aquatic organisms.indigenous.
‘Ōpae kala’ole (kuahiwi)
Atyoida bisulcata
Golden-brown, dark green to
black coloration. Length to  2 inches. Usually upper stream reaches; prefers fast-flowingwater. Feeds on plant andanimal matter.Endemic. 
Hīhīwai
Neritina granosa
Shell black with faint rings;
knobby projections present invarying degrees; rough to fairly smooth. Up to 2 inches indaimeter. Lower, middle andupper stream reaches. Feedson algae growing on rocks.Endemic. ‘Ōpae ‘oeha‘a
Macrobrachium grandimanus
Brownish color males have  
with one large and one small  claw, which are vertically  striped. Length to 3 inches.Usually estuaries and lowerstream reaches. Feeds on plantand animal matter.Endemic.
Hapawai
Neritina vespertina
Smooth thin shell, pale brown
color; shell more flattened thanhihiwai, usually with wing-like projections. White calciumdeposits often on shell apex.Up to 1 inch in diameter. usually estuaries and lower stream reaches. Feeds on algae growing on rocks.Endemic.‘O‘opu naniha
Stenogoblus hawaiiensis
Y ellow-brown coloration; may
have12 verticalblack bands.Diagonal black band througheyes. length to 5 inches.Usually estuaries and lowerstream reaches; prefers softbottom areas. Feeds on plantand animal matter.Endemic.‘O‘opu ‘akupa (‘ōkuhe)
Eleotris sandwicensis
Dark brown or black coloration. 
Only ‘o‘opu with separate pelvic fins. length to 12 inches.Usually estuaries and lowerstream reaches. Feeds oninvertebrates and small fishes.Endemic.Hinana
All species of ‘o‘opu begintheir lives in streams. Newlyhatched larvae are swept out tosea, where they become part of oceanic plankton. After severalmonths, post-larval ‘o‘opu, now called hinana, return in large
numbers to streams, andmigrate to preferred habitat.
Produced by the Education Program
DIVISION OF AQUATIC RESOURCESDepartment of Land and Natural ResourceFunded in part by the Federal Aid in Sport
Fish Restoration Program through your purchase
of fishing equiptment and motor boat fuels
©2017 Hawai
‘i Division of Aquatic Resources
9435_SH_DLNR_Fact Sheet.indd   2 8/7/17   9:49 AM

--- Text from PDF (https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/files/2014/04/keiki_angler.pdf) ---
The 
Keiki AnglerThe Keiki Angleris produced by the Education Program, Hawai‘iDivision of Aquatic Resources.  Funding is provided in part bythe Federal Aid in Sport Fish Restoration Program, through yourpurchase of fishing equipment and motor boat fuels.©1992 Hawai‘i Division of Aquatic ResourcesWritten by Randy HonebrinkIllustrated by Sharon OettingDepartment of Land and Natural ResourcesDivision of Aquatic Resources1151 Punchbowl Street, Room 330Honolulu, HI   968131
Keiki Angling — A game for two players
An “angler” is somebody who fishes using a hook and line (the old word for fish hook was
“angle.”  In this game, players take turns choosing a fishing pole and following its line to a fish.Each player wins the number on each fish he or she “catches.”  When all four of the fish arecaught, the player with the highest score is the winner.2Fishing Gear:  What you’ll need to catch fish
Line
The “pound test” is a number that
tells you how strong the line is.Thinner line is harder for fish to see.But it breaks more easily, too.
Floaters
They keep your bait off the bottom,
and as deep as you want.Use the plastic type with a bamboopole.  Use the wooden egg type witha rod and reel.
Sinker
This keeps you bait under
the water, where the fishare.  This kind is a splitshot.  Just squeeze it ontoyour line.Hooks
They come in many shapes and sizes.
It’s better to use smaller hooks.  A hooksize about 10 or 12 is good for manyreef fishes.  With most hook sizes, thebigger the number, the smaller the hook.
Swivel
Use this with a rod and reel; tie it to
the end of your mainline.  This kindis called a snap swivel.  The swivelkeeps your line from getting twisted.You can clip a floater on the snap.
Tackle box
A place to store all
your fishing gear.
6 lb. testFish Line
BarbEye
Shank
BendPoint
O’Doul Hook
Size 1Limerick Hook
Size 7
AH Hook
Size 11
Plastic
Wooden egg3If your pole doesn’t have a cord, tie
your line to the tip with a knot like theone shown here.  This knot is kind oflike the Japan knot on page 6.Some bamboo poles come with a
loop of cord at the tip end.  Tie yourline to that loop, using the clinchknot on page 5.Fishing with a bamboo pole is just
about the easiest kind of fishingthere is.  Almost everyone learns tofish with a bamboo pole.
No matter how old you are, or how
long you’ve been fishing, bamboopole fishing is good fun.  All youneed is a bamboo pole, line, andhook.  You can put on a sinker and afloater, too.  Make your line aboutas long as the pole plus your arm.Bamboo Pole Fishing
HookSinkerFloaterLine4Fishing with Rod and Reel
A rod and reel lets you fish
farther from shore than youcan with a bamboo pole.
There are different kinds of
rods and reels.  The easiestkind to cast is the one shownhere, the spincasting rod and
reel.  This kind of reel is usedin fresh water, but hardly everin salt water.
Push the button on the back of the reel
to let line out, and thread the linestraight through all the guides on therod.  Turn the reel handle until it clicks,so no more line will come out.
Reel
“Trigger”Guide5How do I tie a knot?
You can use one of these three knots to tie a hook or swivel to your line.  Fishing line is made
of nylon, and regular knots (like a “Granny” knot) won’t work.  Before you tighten a knot, youshould make the line wet.  The easiest way to do that is to wet the knot with your mouth.  Aknot is the weakest part of your fishing line, so that’s where lines break most often.
Whenever you tie a knot, start out with lots of line.  Then follow these steps:
Palomar knot
This is the easiest knot to tie.
1.  Pass the line through the hook’s
eye, then double it back againthrough the eye.
2.  Tie an overhand knot (just like
the first part of tying your shoes),but don’t pull it tight yet.
3.  Pass the hook through the loop.4.  Pull the loose end of the line,
and tighten the knot (don’t forgetto make it wet).  Trim the end ofthe line.
Improved clinch knot
1.  Pass the end of the line through the
hook’s eye, then wrap it around the lineabout five times.
2.  Bring the end of the line back toward
the hook and pass it through the first loopby the eye.
3.  Pass the end back through the big loop
you just made.
4.  Hold the hook and line, and pull the
knot tight.  Trim the end of the line.
Courtesy of DuPont Fishing Products Group1.2.
3.
4.6Word Search
Words to find :
aholeholebaitbamboobarbelscastingcoralfloaterfreshwaterhabitathookikaknotlinemamomarineoamaoopuopaereelsinkerswivelHow many angling words can you find?  Words go left to right, top to 
bottom, and diagonally, and they can overlap each other.  Circle eachword that you can find from the list.Japan knot
This knot is used on hooks only.
1.  Pass the line through the hook’s eye
from the point side, and run it along theshank of the hook.
2.  Make a loop (“A”) and wrap 3 or 4
times around the line and the hook’s shank.Keep your fingers on this part of the knotuntil it’s tight.
3.  Pass the end back through the loop
(“A”) and pull tight.
4.  Hold the hook and line, and pull the
knot tight.  Trim the end of the line.
Loop
“A”7How do I cast a rod and reel?
It’s a good idea to practice casting before you go fishing with a rod and reel for the first time.
You can tie a practice plug or a wooden floater to your line for weight.  Then go out to an openarea and practice till you’re (almost) perfect.  This is how to cast with a small spincasting reel.
1.  Let the plug hang down a few inches
below the rod tip.  Make sure the line isn’twrapped around the rod.  Put your indexfinger on the rod’s “trigger” to make surethe rod doesn’t go flying away when youcast.
6.  If the plug goes high into the air,
you’re letting go of the button toosoon.  If the plug plops onto theground in front of you, you’re lettinggo too late.  Just keep practicing untilyou get it right.2.  Look behind and around you, and make sure no one is standing too close.  Also look to see
that you won’t get your line tangled in any trees or bushes.
3.  Push and hold down the release button
on the back of the reel.
4.  Using mostly your wrist (not your whole arm), bring the rod back
over your shoulder.
5.  Gently swing the rod forward (using wrist action again), and let go
of the release button just after the rod is straight up.  You don’t have tothrow hard to make the plug go far.
Let go just past here Let go too soon
Let go too late8What can I use for bait?
What you use for bait depends on what kind of fish you want to catch.  Some fish eat plants,
some eat animals, some eat just about anything.  Always be careful when you put on bait, soyou don’t poke yourself with the hook.
Most small reef fish love ‘opae
(shrimp), especially when it’salive.  The only problem is youhave to catch the ‘opae and keepthem alive.  Hook live ‘opaethrough the tail.  If the ‘opae isdead, put the hook through thetail the long way.
Fish that only eat other fish will
go for live medaka (minnow)
as bait.  Hook the medakaeither through the mouth justbehind the lips, or through theback just below the dorsal fin.Frozen shrimp works well with many
fish.  You can use the shell to helphold the meat on the hook.
Ika(cuttlefish) is also a very good
bait.  Just cut it into little pieces andput it on your hook.  Both frozenshrimp and ika are found in yoursupermarket.
Doughballs can be used to catch fish that aren’t
too picky about what they eat.  Doughballs aremade from flour, water, and some kind of fishsauce (like canned sardines).
Bread works well for some fish.  The bread
needs to be soft, so you can wrap it around thehook and it will stay together.  Pinch it tightaround the shank so it stays on.  Leave it kindof fluffy around the bend of the hook.
Live ‘opaeDead ‘opae
ShrimpIka
MedakaDorsal fin
Doughball Bread9Worms are good bait for many freshwater
fish.  Push your hook sideways throughthe worm for fish with large mouths, likebass or catfish.  For fish with smallermouths, like ‘o‘opu, push your hookthrough the worm the long way.
Lures aren’t bait, but look like something a fish
would want to eat.  There are many types of lures.The best way to use a lure is to move it kind ofquickly through the water so the fish has to attackit.  If a fish has too much time to check out a lure,the fish will figure out that the lure isn’t real foodafter all.  Lures are used with a rod and reel, butnot a bamboo pole.
The table below shows what kind of bait works well with certain types of fish:
Fish Line (leader) Hook Bait
(pound test) (type, size)
Saltwater*
Aholehole 2 - 4 AH 13 Shrimp, ika
Hinalea 2 - 4 Limerick 12 Shrimp, ika, breadKupipi 2 - 4 Limerick 12-15 Shrimp, ikaMamo 2 - 4 Limerick 12-15 Shrimp, ika‘U‘u (menpachi) 4 - 6 AH 13 Shrimp‘Oama 1 - 2 Limerick 18-20 Shrimp
*All of these fish will go for live ‘opae
Freshwater
Largemouth bass 6 - 8 Limerick 6 Crayfish, medakaChannel catfish 6 - 10 O’Doul 1 Liver, wormTilapia 4 - 6 Limerick 7 Bread, doughballsTrout 4 - 6 Limerick 6 Worm, medakaTucunare 4 - 6 Limerick 4 Medaka‘O‘opu nakea 4 - 6 Limerick 10 Worm
10Where do fish live?
If you want to catch fish, you have to know where to look for them.  Fish will usually be found
in places that have food for them to eat, places to hide from bigger fish, and clean water.  Fishneed these things in order to survive.
Where a fish lives is called its habitat .  Fish live in either freshwater or saltwater habitats.  In
Hawai‘i there are many more kinds of saltwater ( marine ) fish than freshwater fish. Many fish
like to feed and hide near underwater objects.  In the ocean, fish are attracted to coral reefs orother places that give them shelter.  Many types of fish will be able to find food on and abovehealthy coral reefs.  In streams and reservoirs, fish like to hide and feed near weeds, fallen trees,or behind rocks and boulders.
The ocean has different types of habitats for fish.Many fish like coral reefs, but others stay aroundboulders or sandy bottom areas.  Which type ofhabitat do your think will attract the most fish?What kind of food can fish find in sandy bottomareas?  Where can fish hide in this picture?
11Clean water is very important to fish.  Most seaweeds and water plants can only grow in clean
water.  Seaweeds and plants are food for some fish.  Coral also needs clean water to live andgrow.  You won’t find very many fish in places where coral or plants can’t survive, like in pol-luted water.  Most of the plants and animals that can live in dirty water are not good food forfish (or people).
Pollution isn’t the only thing that can mess up a fish’s home.  In some places, people catch fish
by putting bleach into the water and waiting for the stunned fish to come out of their holes.This is a terrible thing to do to fish and their habitat, because it will kill part of the reef andkeep other fish away for a long time.  Dropping anchors on coral, or taking coral out of thewater, also takes away habitat.  When habitats are messed up or destroyed, fish have to moveaway and find someplace else to live.
There are different types of freshwater habitats, too.Some fish like streams, others like reservoirs.  Wheredoes the stream end and the reservoir begin?  Can youfind the ‘o‘opu in the stream?
Do you think the water on these two pages is polluted?
How can you tell?Answer:  No, because there are lots of fish.12How do fish...
Swim? A fish swims by moving its tail
from side to side.  It uses its other fins tohelp it steer, swim backwards, and keepitself right-side-up in the water.
See? Fish have very good vision, and many
fish can probably see colors.  Fish see best atclose range.  Fish that are active mostly atnight will have big eyes to let in more light.
Hear? Fish have ear bones inside their heads,
and can hear pretty well.  A fish also has alateral line that runs along both sides of thebody and acts a little like an ear.  It lets thefish know when something is moving in thewater nearby.
Breathe? A fish has gills on each side of its head.
The fish takes water in through its mouth, passes itover the gills, and out through the gill opening.  Thegills take oxygen out of the water and put it into thefish’s blood.
Smell? A fish has two nostrils on its head.  Each
nostril has two openings.  Water goes in one openingand out the other.  A fish does not breathe throughits nostrils.  Fish have a very good sense of smell.
Taste? A fish has tastebuds on its tongue and
inside its mouth.  Some fish, like goatfish, havebarbels (“whiskers”) near their mouths.  The
barbels also have tastebuds, and help the fishfind its food.
Eat? Fish that eat plants usually have small
mouths with fine teeth, and bite off little partsof a plant at a time.  Fish that eat other fishhave big mouths with sharp teeth, which keepthe prey from escaping.
Lateral line
Barbels
Plant
eaterMeat eater13Safe Fishing
Whenever you go fishing, tell someone (an adult) where you’re going and when you think
you’ll be back.  Don’t go fishing alone — take along a friend or a parent.
Fishing is an outdoor sport, so you
need to watch out for the sun.Wear a hat and shirt, and put onsunscreen.  Wear sunglasses toprotect your eyes.
Bare feet are not a good idea when you go fishing.
Wear shoes, not slippers.  Be careful where you step.
Watch out for waves.  They can
get big real fast.  Stay off wetrocks by the water’s edge.  Neverturn your back on the ocean.
Wear a life preserver when you fish
at reservoirs with steep banks, onboats, or other places where youcould fall into deep water.  Learn toswim if you don’t know how.
Be careful with hooks — when you’re tying them on and when you’re casting.  If you get
poked, and the hook doesn’t go in past the barb, just pull it out.  If the hook is in past the barb,it’s best to have a doctor remove it.  If you can’t wait that long, you could have an adult removeit.  One way is by looping a string or line around the bend of the hook.  Push down on the shankand pull the line (see the diagrams below).  See a doctor afterwards in case you need a tetanusshot.
Courtesy of O. Mustad & Son (U.S.A.) Inc.14What kind of fish can I catch?
Aholehole
The aholehole is a silver fish that is often found swimming in schools.  It likes to swim around
rocks and coral heads, and is usually caught in the late evening and at night.
Aholehole eat small crabs and shrimp, so shrimp is a good bait.  Aholehole can grow to be
about 12 inches long.  The aholehole is found in Hawai‘i and nowhere else.
Hinalea
The hinalea is a very common fish in Hawai‘i, and is one of the easiest fish to catch on the reef.It has a purplish blue head, orange “saddle” behind the head, and a green body.
Hinalea feed mostly during the day, and eat seaweed and small crabs.  Shrimp is good bait.
Hinalea can grow to be about 12 inches long.  The hinalea is found only in Hawai‘i.Saltwater fish
15Kupipi
The kupipi is a small fish, found in shallow reef and boulder areas.  It usually swims alone or in
small groups.  Young kupipi are often found in tidepools.
The kupipi’s color is grayish brown with lighter stripes, and it has dark spots on its tail and dor-
sal fin.  It can grow to be about 9 inches long.  It eats mostly during the day, and likes seaweedand small crabs.  You can catch kupipi using shrimp or ika for bait.
Mamo
The mamo is another common fish on Hawai‘i’s reefs.  It is found in shallow water, and oftenswims in small groups.  Young mamo are very common in tidepools.
The mamo is a pale greenish color with black bars.  The lower sides are often yellow, but not
always.  It can grow to be about 9 inches long.  Mamo eat mostly during the day, and like smallcrabs and other shellfish.  You can catch it on shrimp or ika.  The mamo is found only inHawai‘i.
16
‘U‘u (menpachi)
The Hawaiian name for this fish is ‘u‘u, but most people call it by its Japanese name, menpachi .
This fish is brick red, and at night its lower sides become a silvery color.
The menpachi is a schooling fish, and during the day it hides in caves.  It feeds at night, and
likes to eat small crabs and shrimp, so shrimp is a good bait to use.  Some menpachi can growto be about 14 inches long.
‘Oama
The ‘oama is a baby weke, and is a fun fish to catch with a bamboo pole.  Its color is silverywhite with a yellow stripe along the side, and it has barbels under its chin.  When an ‘oamagrows to be more than 7 inches, it is a weke.
‘Oama are found in shallow sandy areas during late summer, usually in large schools.  They
feed by night and day, and eat small crabs and shrimp.  ‘Opae is the best bait to use for ‘oama.Some people like to eat ‘oama; others like to use them as bait for larger fish (like papio).17
Largemouth bass
The largemouth bass lives mostly in reservoirs in Hawai‘i, and is usually found close to shore
near underwater logs or weeds.  Its color is dark green above and white below, with a darkstripe or blotches along the side.
Bass feed mostly in the early morning and late evening, and like to eat small fish, crayfish and
frogs.  Crayfish and medaka make good bait.  Largemouth bass were first brought to Hawai‘i in1896.
Channel catfish
The channel catfish has barbels around its mouth.  It uses them to help find food.  The channelcatfish’s color is a dark bluish gray above, and lighter below.  It has dark spots on its sides, andits color gets darker as the fish gets older.
Channel catfish live mostly in reservoirs in Hawai‘i.  They feed on the bottom, so that’s where
you need to put your bait.  Catfish like to eat small fish, clams, and snails.  Liver is a good bait,and many people soak the bait in their own secret recipes to make it smell strong (“stinkbait”)and attract more fish.  Channel catfish were first brought to Hawai‘i in 1958.Freshwater fish18
Tilapia
The tilapia is a fish that you can find all over the place, in many streams and reservoirs.  Tilapia
are usually a dark gray color, but some types are orange or yellow.
The tilapia mostly eats algae, but isn’t a very picky eater and will eat just about anything it can.
It is an easy fish to catch, and doughballs make good bait.  Tilapia were first brought to Hawai‘iin 1951.
Tucunare
The tucunare is one of the most fun fish to catch in fresh water.  The tucunare’s color is yellowwith a green back and white belly, and it has dark bars on the sides.  It also has a black spot onits tail.
Tucunare live mostly in the larger reservoirs in Hawai‘i.  They feed on small fish, so medaka is
a good bait to use.  Tucunare were first brought to Hawai‘i in 1957.19
Rainbow trout
The rainbow trout is a fish that likes cold water.  In Hawai‘i it lives on the islands of Kaua‘i and
Hawai‘i, in cold water streams and a few reservoirs.  The rainbow trout is bluish green aboveand silvery below, with a pink stripe along the sides.  Its back, sides, and fins have small blackspots.
Rainbow trout feed on fish eggs and small fish.  Worms or medaka can be used for bait, and
salmon eggs work well.  Rainbow trout were first brought to Hawai‘i in 1920.
‘O‘opu nakea
The ‘o‘opu nakea is one of only five freshwater fishes that are native to Hawai‘i.  All of thesenative fish are called ‘o‘opu , and live most of their lives in streams.
After adult ‘o‘opu lay their eggs, and the eggs hatch, the young ‘o‘opu are swept out to sea.
After a few months, when they are still pretty small, they return and make their way back up thestreams.  At this time they are called hinana .
The ‘o‘opu nakea is the largest ‘o‘opu, and can grow to be 11 to 14 inches long.  It is a light
brown color, with dark blotches.  It has a dark patch on its tail, and dark stripes on its fins.‘O‘opu eat algae, worms, and snails.  Worms are the best bait.  The other ‘o‘opu are found onlyin Hawai‘i, but nakea is also found in the South Pacific.20
How do I catch a fish?
First of all, find a place where you think there might be fish to catch (see pages 10-11).  There
are some areas where fishing is illegal, or where you can only fish with certain types of gear.These places are listed in the Hawai‘i Fishing Regulations booklet.  If you have to cross over
private property to get to a fishing spot, be sure to get permission from the people who own theproperty.  Once you’re at the spot:
Set up your bamboo pole or rod and reel.  Bait the hook.
If you’re using a rod and reel, cast out your line.  Set the drag tight
enough so you can set the hook, but loose enough so a fish won’tbreak your line.  ( “Setting the hook” means pulling back on your
line fast to poke the hook through the fish’s mouth.)
If you’re using a bamboo pole, just flip the line into the water.Watch your floater.  When it starts to wiggle, a fish is nibbling at
your bait.
It takes practice to know when to set the hook, but when the floater
goes under water you pull back on your rod and hope the hook getsset in the fish’s mouth.  If you pull back too soon, you’ll just pull thehook out of the fish’s mouth.  If you wait too long, the fish mightswallow it.
It’s easy to pull in a fish with a bamboo pole.  With a rod and reel
you need to keep the line tight so the hook can’t come back out.Pull the rod back, then reel in line as you lower the rod.  Keepdoing that until the fish is close enough for you to land.
If the fish is small, you can just lift it out of the water with your
pole.  If it’s big enough that it might break the line, scoop it out ofthe water with a landing net.21
I caught a fish.  Now what do I do?
What fish can I keep?You need to decide whether or not you want to keep your fish.  If you’re not going to eat it, or if
it’s pretty small, release it carefully and let it go.  Be careful when you handle fish, because
they often have sharp spines on their fins.
To release a fish, keep it in the water as
much as you can, handle it gently, anddon’t touch the eyes.  Take the hook outwith your fingers or pliers.  If the fish hasswallowed the hook, cut the line as closeto the hook as you can.  The fish will beall right.  Get the fish back in the water asquick as you can.
It’s a good idea to use barbless hooks if
you plan to let your fish go.  You can makea barbless hook by just squeezing the barbflat with a pair of pliers.  Barbless hooksare easier to remove from a fish, and don’thurt the fish as much when pulled out.
If you’re going to keep your fish and eat it, you should throw it into a cooler on ice if possible.
Or you can keep it alive by putting it in a wire basket or on a stringer and leaving it in thewater.  Otherwise, keep it wet and out of the sun so it doesn’t start to spoil. The fish will need tobe cleaned, but you should let an adult do that.
Only keep fish that you are going to eat.  Also, there
are laws that tell you what fish you can’t keep.  Somefish have a minimum size — if they’re too small you
have to let them go so they can grow big enough tospawn (lay eggs) at least once.  Aholehole and manyfreshwater fishes have a minimum size.
Some fish can’t be kept during their closed seasons ,
certain months of the year when they spawn.  And somefish have bag limits , which means you can only keep a
certain number of that kind of fish.  It’s important toknow the rules for fishing.  You should get a copy ofthe Hawai‘i Fishing Regulations from a fishing store or
the Division of Aquatic Resources.Barb Barbless22
Which fish are keepers?
In Hawai‘i, some fish have to be a certain length (minimum size) in order for an angler to keep
them.  It’s important to know the rules.  In our fishpond the rule is that the fish has to be at least4 inches long including the tail.Circle the fish that are keepers.23
Food chain maze
Fish and other water animals need food, and they like to stay around places where there’s lots to
eat.  A food chain tells us what gets eaten by what.  Try to follow the ulua through its food
chain.
Uluaeats
Eel ‘U‘u Shrimp Limueats eats eats
24How can I help make fishing better in
Hawai‘i?
Be safe. Be careful when casting, and pick up all your fish hooks.
Know the rules. Fishing regulations protect fish, mostly to help them spawn.  They also help
more people to catch fish.  The idea behind all fishing rules is to keep the numbers of fishes inHawai‘i’s waters from becoming too low.  So following the rules is very important.
Be courteous. Fish quietly so you don’t bother other anglers.  Don’t crowd other anglers, cross
your line over theirs, or disturb them in other ways.  Treat other anglers the way you’d like themto treat you.
Don’t litter. Pick up your old fishing line, leftover bait, and anything else on the ground.
Some of these things can be dangerous to people, and some can harm fish if blown into thewater.  Leave your fishing area a little cleaner than it was when you came.
Catch and release. Keep only the fish you’re going to eat, and carefully let others go.  Use
barbless hooks whenever you can.  The fun of fishing is in catching the fish.  If you let your fishgo, it will live to fight another day.25The Department of Land and Natural Resources receives financial support under the
Federal Aid in Sport Fish and Wildlife Restoration and other federal programs.  UnderTitle VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,Title II of the Americans with Disabilitites Act of 1990, the Age Discrimination Act of1975, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and the laws of the State ofHawaii, the U.S. Department of the Interior and the State of Hawaii prohibit discrimi-nation on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, and disability.  Ifyou believe that you have been discriminated against in any program, activity or facili-ty, or if you desire information, please write to: Affirmative Action Officer, PersonnelOffice, Department of Land and Natural Resources, 1151 Punchbowl Street, Rm. 231,Honolulu, HI 96813, or the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, Civil Rights Branch, 4040 N.Fairfax Drive, Suite 300, Arlington, V A 22203.

--- Text from PDF (https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/files/2014/04/hibook.pdf) ---
A Keiki Activity Bookillustration by Ben Lueders
Why 
is 
Hawaii’s 
ocean 
important?Why is Hawaii’s ocean important?  A keiki activity book
A publication of NOAA/National Centers for Coastal Ocean Sciences
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf1Toothpaste, poke, puka shell necklaces, medicine and rain are just some of the things that come from the ocean.  
In many ways--more than we know--we are connected to the ocean. Without it, 
we could not survive. And guess what? the ocean depends on us too! 
Everything we do, including watering the grass, throwing away rubbish and 
snorkeling, has a huge effect on the sea and the creatures who live there. 
Anything that goes down 
a drain in your house or neighborhood eventually makes its way to the ocean. 
Grabbing or standing on 
coral can kill it, not to mention threatening the animals and plants living there.  
it’s easy to see that by 
taking good care of the ocean, we take good 
care of ourselves.Why is Hawaii’s ocean important?
Humuhumunukunukuapuaa (Ben Lueders)Answers: baseball, surfboard, hat, tire, 2 bottles, clock, bottle cap, ﬁ  shing pole, snorkel mask, golf ball, 
anchor, barrel of toxic waste, 6-pack plastic ring, glasses, broom, soda can, football, rubber slipper, boot, hammer, nails
marine debris (Ben Lueders)
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfCan you find and color 21 things wrong with this reef?
Answers are at the bottom of this page.What is wrong with this reef? 
2 
Help the lauwiliwilinukunukuoioi f ind its way home while keeping 
away from the pollution. 
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important?  A keiki activity book
Activity from the Waikiki Aquarium
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfKeep our ocean clean
1
3corals are living animals, not rocks. can you find at least 12 
animals living among the coral and algae?
Answers: wrasse (3), moorish idol, sea star, sea horse, trumpetﬁ  sh, scorpionﬁ  sh, anglerﬁ  sh, octopus, surgeonﬁ  sh, lizardﬁ  sh, 
spiny lobster, featherduster worm, hermit crab, coral goby, shrimpﬁ  sh, ﬂ  ounder, sea slug and more.
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Waikiki Aquarium
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfThe Reef is Alive!
4Secret Code
Unlock the secret message 
hiding in these special code symbols. use the chart on the right to Replace the shapes below with the letter equal to it.
goatfish (Ben Lueders)
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii’s Living Reef Campaign.
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf= G = E
= F= S
= A= D= O
 = I
= V=N= L
= R=U
_      _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  
 _  _  _  _!  
Answer: A living reef gives our islands life!
5Make a Look Box
5. Allow the caulk to dry for 24 hours.
6. Check for leaks by ﬁ  lling the bucket. If it leaks, you can either start over or add a bead 
of caulk to the inner and outer edges of the acrylic. Remember to treat all marine life with respect. If you do use the look box for holding marine life, place only one animal in the bucket 
at a time. 
* BE A GOOD REEF VISITOR and Have fun! *2. Cut out the bottom of the bucket with a 
coping or thin bladed saw. Leave a ¼  - ½ inch lip.
3. Lay down a bead of clear silicone caulk on the 
inside of the lip.
4. Insert a piece* of clear acrylic (e.g., Plexiglas ®) 
or plastic. Press down to get a good seal. You do not have to clean up the excess caulk that squeezes out (it will probably just smear anyway).
*You can get a piece of 3/16 inch acrylic cut to your required dimensions via any of the local plastic companies. Check the Yel-low Pages for companies or you can cut your own sheet of plastic purchased from a hardware store.
2-5 gal. bucket
cut
Caulk
Add clear plastic
Finished look boximportant: this activity requires the help of a responsible adult. 
When using the box please take care not step on the coral. have fun and enjoy our beautiful ocean!
1.  Determine the size of the look box. For children, we favor 1 gallon buckets. Adults may wish 
to have a 2 - 5 gallon bucket. You can get these buckets* from paint or hardware stores. 
*Other options exist as well. Kitchen buckets are often too ﬂ  imsy and containers with low edges tend to swamp, but plastic 
ﬂ ower pots and other tall-sided containers make acceptable look boxes. 
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Waikiki Aquarium
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf6Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf
7Blacktip reef shark and limu kohu (Ben Lueders)Northwestern hawaiian islands word search
How many of these words can you find? Words can be backwards, forwards, diagonal and, even, backwards and diagonal. 
Plants and Animals
Limu Loulu Monk Seal Sanctuary Geology
Atoll Coral Sand Sea mount Volcano Islands
Kure LaysanMokumanamana Pearl 
M N A S Y A L V A S L KB O A L A K O Q L A L US N K E R L N A E N O RD C S U C A R O Z C T EL A W A M O E G g T A IL L N G C A D P O U L GV O s t n d N Q P A A VH G U E E E W A X R c NX R O L u m I L M Y S JG M B S U Y J W D A L     WP O l a e s k n o m N Ns e a m o U n t W H K A
Mark HeckmanWhy is our ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Northwestern Hawaiian Isalnds Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf8M N A S Y A L V A S L KB O A L A K O Q L A L US N K E R L N A E N O RD C S U C A R O Z C T EL A W A M O E G g T A IL L N G C A D P O U L GV O s t n d N Q P A A VH G U E E E W A X R c NX R O L u m I L M Y S JG M B S U Y J W D A L     WP O l a e s k n o m N Ns e a m o U n t W H K ANorthwestern hawaiian islands word search answers
Plants and Animals
Limu is the Hawaiian word for seaweed.
Loulu palms are endemic to Hawaii.
The Hawaiian Monk Seal  is endemic to Hawaii.
Sanctuary is a safe place for plants and animals to live.
Geology
Atoll is a ring-shaped coral island that encloses a lagoon.
Coral is an animal that creates a hard skeleton.  A collection of coral can form 
reefs or islands.  
White Sand  is made up of ground up coral, seashells, algae and even tiny skeletons.
Sea mount is an island beneath the sea. 
Volcano es created the island chain by spilling out molten lava.Islands
Kure atoll is the last in the chain and a true atoll.
Laysan Island  has one of five natural lakes in the state.
Mokumanamana  is the original Hawaiian name for Necker Island, one of the first two 
islands in the Northwestern Hawaiian Island chain. 
Pearl and Hermes Reef is one of the more northern in the chain. Hawaiian pearl oysters were 
harvested here until too many were taken.Guess whose shark teeth!
Directions: Match the shark teeth on the left to the shark 
that they belong to on the right.
A. Scalloped Hammerhead
B. Galapagos
D. Tiger
1.
2.
3.
4.Answers: 1.B, 2.A, 3.D, 4.CIllustrations by Ben LuedersC. Grey Reef
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf
Each species of shark has a distinct shape to their teeth. Using just one tooth, scientists can identify the shark to which it belongs!
9write your own comic strip
if they could talk, what would sea creatures say to each other? Take 
a look at this ocean scene and write things they would say. 
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf
 Ben Lueders
10Matching game: larvae to adult
when many sea creatures hatch from their egg, they are called larvae. often, 
larve look different from the adults they will become.
Can you match the adults on the left with their larval form on the right? 
answers are at the bottom of this page.
Illustrations by Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfA. Flounder
B. Pencil Urchin
C. Scorpionﬁ  sh
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.D. Cauliﬂ  ower Coral
E. Sea SnailAnswers: A.2, B.5, C.1, D.3, E.4
111. Draw two oval eyes.
2. Draw the face, nose and mouth.
3, Draw dots in and next to the eyes. 
Draw a chin and dots for whiskers near the nose. Draw the body.
4. Draw ﬂ  ippers and a tail. Erase 
the bottom portion of  the head  leaving the chin. You are ﬁ  nished!How to draw a monk seal
Directions: Use a pencil, for you will have to erase a line at the end.When you are 
finished, you can trace over the pencil lines in pen or color your seal.
There are fewer than 1500 Hawaiian monk seals left in the world.  Baby monk seals (called pups) make a “mwaa, mwaa, mwaa” sound when calm and a loud “aaah” or “gaah” when scared.  Adults make a “bub-bling” sound when alarmed.
Illustrations by Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf12Whale Identification
Scientists identify individual humpback whales by studying their tails, which are also known 
as flukes. The scalloping, color patterns and scars on the underside of the flukes are as unique as your fingerprints.
Approximately 5,000 humpback whales migrate to the warm, protected waters of Hawaii each 
year, making Hawaii a great place for whale researchers to learn more about this endan-gered species.
match the numbered flukes on the left with the flukes on the right.
1
2
3
4A
B
C
DAnswers: 1 D, 2 B, 3 A, 4 C
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf13local names
Because of Hawaii’s many different cultures, some sea creatures have many 
different names. Can you match up the creatures on the left with their local 
names on the right?
*HInt: Some of them may have more than one name. Answers are at the bottom of this page.
A. Naia (Hawaii)
B. Mano puele (Hawaii) c. hee (Hawaii)D.     Tako (Japan)E.     Manini (Hawaii)F .      Menpachi (Japan)G.     Marracho tigre (Portugal) H.      Wawaeiole (Hawaii)I.        Popoklo (philippines)
J.       Uu (Hawaii)
1. Octopus
2. Dolphin
3. Soldierfish
4. Convict Tang
5. Tiger Shark (juvenile)
Illustrations by Ben LuedersAnswers: 1. C&D, 2. A, 3. F&J, 4. E, 5. B&G, 6. H&I 
6. Codium Edule
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf14Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf15Color by number 
Color in this adult and juvenile UHU (Parrotfish) using the color key as your guide.
1=  Cerulean (Bright blue)2= blue3= turquoise4= orange5= pink6= lime-green7= yellow8= grey9= black
Parrotfish are a major source of sand.  As they graze on coral to get at algae hidden within, special bones in their throat grind up the coral chunks.  Eventually, the ground coral exits the back end of the fish as sand.
Adult and juvenile uhu (Ben Lueders)Limu press How to keep your own algal specimen
Directions for pressing your algae are on the folllowing page.
 Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the University of Hawaii at Manoa Department of Botany
 www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf16MATERIALS • pan with water • paper (index cards, botany paper or heavy cardstock)• waxed paper (cut into pieces to ﬁ  t the card/paper; need one piece per card)
• old newspaper (to absorb the moisture)• pieces of cloth/old sheets (cut into pieces to ﬁ  t over the cards/paper)
• pieces of corrugated cardboard• heavy weights• electric fan• brushes (to work the specimens)A  long time ago, before freeze drying and refrigeration, scientific explorers needed to 
invent a way to preserve samples of newly discovered plant species.  This inspired the creation of the plant press, a method that removes water from the plant. 
This activity uses the basic pressing techniques still used today by scientists.  Instead of 
selecting only one alga per sheet, you may decide to create a collage of seaweeds by arranging a few different types on one sheet.  This can become a notecard, a paperweight, or can be framed.1. Collect your algae.  Pinch, do not pull.
2. Bring them home in fresh SEAWATER.3. Spread newspaper on work area to keep it dry.4. Fill pan with clean seawater (about ½ inch deep).5. Select algae to be used.6. Place selected algae into pan of water.7. Put heavyweight paper in the water, under the selected algae.8. Float the alga into place.  You can spread, trim, and arrange.9.  Lift gently paper from water with the arranged algae.10. Drain carefully as much water as possible from the paper without disturbing your  
      arrangement.
11. Place the paper with your arrangement on a folded section of newspaper.12. Place a piece of waxed paper over the arrangement.13. Place a cloth over the waxed paper.14. Place another layer of folded newspaper over the cloth.15. Place corrugated cardboard squares on top & bottom      to help dry your “sandwich”.16. Repeat this process for as many algal sheets as you have.17. Set gently entire bundle into a plant press.  (Plant presses use heavy weight on top  
      to ﬂ  atten plants.)
18. Dry the stack with air ﬂ  ow to avoid mold and mildew.
19. Check stack after 24 hours.  Newspaper, cloth, and cardboard may need to be   
      changed if a lot of water has been absorbed to prevent mold and mildew forming.
20.  After 3-4 days, remove arrangements. Glue card onto construction paper cut 
about 1/4 to 1/2 inches wider and longer than arrangement sheet. (This will frame the 
arrangement.)Limu press continued
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the University of Hawaii at Manoa Department of Botany
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf17Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf18
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf 19 
Turtle True or False
1. Green sea turtles are 20 years old before they become adults.  T / F
2. Hawksbill sea turtles use their long, narrow beaks to search for food. T / F3. The Hawksbill sea turtle eat sponges that are poisonous to humans. T / F4. It is safe to eat hawksbill sea turtles. T / F5. The hawksbill sea turtle is native to Hawaii. T / F6. Sea turtles can pull their heads or ﬂ  ippers into their shells. T / F
7. The leatherback sea turtle has a hard shell. T / F8. The leatherback sea turtle is the world’s largest turtle. It can grow up to eight 
feet long and weight up to 2,000 pounds. T / FAnswers: 1. True, 2.True, 3.True, 4.False: Hawksbill Sea Turtle meat can be poisonous to humans, 5.True, 6.False, 7.False: The Leather-
back Sea Turtle has a soft shell, 8.TrueThree species of sea turtles are considered native to Hawaii:  green (honu), hawksbill (ea), and leatherback (lai).  Two other species, the loggerhead and olive ridley are sometimes observed in Hawaiian waters.
Test your knowledge of sea turtles. circle true or false next to the following 
sentences. Check your answers at the bottom of the page.
Illustration by Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf20
Mobile cutout
Supplies needed:
ScissorsPaper clipsHole punchPlastic drinking straws (3)
Illustrations by Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf21
finger coral
ornate butterflyfishDIRECTIONS:
1. Color brown and green turf algae onto 
part of the ﬁ  nger coral.2. Cut out the four sea animals.3. Make 6 paper clip chains (two 6-inches and four 3-inches). 4. Thread and center a straw at the bot-tom of a 6-inch chain.5. On the left side of the same straw, thread the other 6-inch chain. On the right side thread a 3-inch chain.
CONTINUED ON PAGE 23Mobile cutout
DIRECTIONS CONTINUED FROM PAGE 22:
6. Thread and center a second straw at 
the bottom of the 6-inch chain.7. Thread and center a third straw at the bottom of the 3-inch chain.8. Attach the animals to the remaining 3-inch chains and attach to the ends of the straws.9. (Optional) Create another chain and attach the food chain explanation to your mobile. 
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf22
finger coral
ornate butterflyfishMobile cutout
how does this food chain 
work?
A food chain shows how some animals are herbivores (eat plants) and some are carni-
vores (eat animals).
A ﬁ  nger coral is a planktivore, a carnivore 
that eats animal larvae in the plankton. The ornate butterﬂ  yﬁ  sh is a corallinavore, a carnivore that eats coral.
The yellow tang is an herbivore. It eats the 
turf algae growing on coral.
The lizardﬁ  sh is a piscavore. It is a carnivore 
that eats both the yellow tang and ornate butteﬂ  yﬁ  sh.
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfIllustrations by Ben Lueders
lizard fish
Yellow Tang
23Yellow Tang
Mobile cutout
lizard fish
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf24how does this food chain 
work?
A food chain shows how some animals are 
herbivores (eat plants) and some are carni-
vores (eat animals).
A ﬁ  nger coral is a planktivore, a carnivore 
that eats animal larvae in the plankton. The ornate butterﬂ  yﬁ  sh is a corallinavore, a carnivore that eats coral.
The yellow tang is an herbivore. It eats the 
turf algae growing on coral.
The lizardﬁ  sh is a piscavore. It is a carnivore 
that eats both the yellow tang and ornate butteﬂ  yﬁ  sh.Things you can do to help
1. Stand only in the sandy areas. Rocky areas are covered with a thin layer 
of living plants and animals, including very young coral. 
2. Enjoy watching ﬁ  sh, but do not feed them. Bread, peas, corn, other 
human foods and human-created ﬁ  sh foods can be harmful to ﬁ  sh. These foods change ﬁ  sh behavior or choke them. 3. Swim smoothly and calmly. That way you will be able to get closer to ﬁ  sh, and you won’t stir up sand that can make it harder to see them.  4. Pick up trash in the water or on the beach and place it in the rubbish bin. Plastic bags are often blown into the water by the wind. Sea turtles can mistake these plastic bags for jellyﬁ  sh, their natural food, and eat them and get very sick or die. 5. Use waterproof sunscreen when going into the ocean. Sunscreen that is not waterproof washes off into the water and pollutes the water. 
6. Use the restrooms found throughout the beach park. Going to the
bathroom in the water adds unwanted nutrients. 7. Do not take anything that belongs at the beach. Leave the rocks, shells, and sand there. Take only photos and memories away with you. 8. Share this information with a friend. Take the time to teach others how to take care of Hawaii’s living reefs and ocean.
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
This activity was brought to you by the University of Hawaii Sea Grant
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf25Copies of this activity book can be downloaded from: 
http://www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf
for more activity books, visit the following pages:
Chesapeake Bay Activity Book: http://www.nccos.noaa.gov/education/cbbook
Coastal North Carolina Activity Book: http://www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/ncbook.pdf
Salish Sea Activity Book: http://www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/ssbook.pdf
Mobile Bay Activity Book: http://www.coastalscience.noaa/gov/education/mbbook.pdf
Produced by: Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
Under the direction of: NOAA/National Centers for Coastal Ocean Sciences
 In collaboration with: Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary, Univer-
sity of Hawaii Sea Grant, Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve, 
University of Hawaii at Manoa Department of Botany, Waikiki Aquarium, State of Hawaii 
Division of Aquatic Resources, Hawaii’s Living Reef Campaign
Designed by Lisa Huynh
July 2005

--- Text from PDF (https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/files/2014/04/keiki_angler.pdf) ---
The 
Keiki AnglerThe Keiki Angleris produced by the Education Program, Hawai‘iDivision of Aquatic Resources.  Funding is provided in part bythe Federal Aid in Sport Fish Restoration Program, through yourpurchase of fishing equipment and motor boat fuels.©1992 Hawai‘i Division of Aquatic ResourcesWritten by Randy HonebrinkIllustrated by Sharon OettingDepartment of Land and Natural ResourcesDivision of Aquatic Resources1151 Punchbowl Street, Room 330Honolulu, HI   968131
Keiki Angling — A game for two players
An “angler” is somebody who fishes using a hook and line (the old word for fish hook was
“angle.”  In this game, players take turns choosing a fishing pole and following its line to a fish.Each player wins the number on each fish he or she “catches.”  When all four of the fish arecaught, the player with the highest score is the winner.2Fishing Gear:  What you’ll need to catch fish
Line
The “pound test” is a number that
tells you how strong the line is.Thinner line is harder for fish to see.But it breaks more easily, too.
Floaters
They keep your bait off the bottom,
and as deep as you want.Use the plastic type with a bamboopole.  Use the wooden egg type witha rod and reel.
Sinker
This keeps you bait under
the water, where the fishare.  This kind is a splitshot.  Just squeeze it ontoyour line.Hooks
They come in many shapes and sizes.
It’s better to use smaller hooks.  A hooksize about 10 or 12 is good for manyreef fishes.  With most hook sizes, thebigger the number, the smaller the hook.
Swivel
Use this with a rod and reel; tie it to
the end of your mainline.  This kindis called a snap swivel.  The swivelkeeps your line from getting twisted.You can clip a floater on the snap.
Tackle box
A place to store all
your fishing gear.
6 lb. testFish Line
BarbEye
Shank
BendPoint
O’Doul Hook
Size 1Limerick Hook
Size 7
AH Hook
Size 11
Plastic
Wooden egg3If your pole doesn’t have a cord, tie
your line to the tip with a knot like theone shown here.  This knot is kind oflike the Japan knot on page 6.Some bamboo poles come with a
loop of cord at the tip end.  Tie yourline to that loop, using the clinchknot on page 5.Fishing with a bamboo pole is just
about the easiest kind of fishingthere is.  Almost everyone learns tofish with a bamboo pole.
No matter how old you are, or how
long you’ve been fishing, bamboopole fishing is good fun.  All youneed is a bamboo pole, line, andhook.  You can put on a sinker and afloater, too.  Make your line aboutas long as the pole plus your arm.Bamboo Pole Fishing
HookSinkerFloaterLine4Fishing with Rod and Reel
A rod and reel lets you fish
farther from shore than youcan with a bamboo pole.
There are different kinds of
rods and reels.  The easiestkind to cast is the one shownhere, the spincasting rod and
reel.  This kind of reel is usedin fresh water, but hardly everin salt water.
Push the button on the back of the reel
to let line out, and thread the linestraight through all the guides on therod.  Turn the reel handle until it clicks,so no more line will come out.
Reel
“Trigger”Guide5How do I tie a knot?
You can use one of these three knots to tie a hook or swivel to your line.  Fishing line is made
of nylon, and regular knots (like a “Granny” knot) won’t work.  Before you tighten a knot, youshould make the line wet.  The easiest way to do that is to wet the knot with your mouth.  Aknot is the weakest part of your fishing line, so that’s where lines break most often.
Whenever you tie a knot, start out with lots of line.  Then follow these steps:
Palomar knot
This is the easiest knot to tie.
1.  Pass the line through the hook’s
eye, then double it back againthrough the eye.
2.  Tie an overhand knot (just like
the first part of tying your shoes),but don’t pull it tight yet.
3.  Pass the hook through the loop.4.  Pull the loose end of the line,
and tighten the knot (don’t forgetto make it wet).  Trim the end ofthe line.
Improved clinch knot
1.  Pass the end of the line through the
hook’s eye, then wrap it around the lineabout five times.
2.  Bring the end of the line back toward
the hook and pass it through the first loopby the eye.
3.  Pass the end back through the big loop
you just made.
4.  Hold the hook and line, and pull the
knot tight.  Trim the end of the line.
Courtesy of DuPont Fishing Products Group1.2.
3.
4.6Word Search
Words to find :
aholeholebaitbamboobarbelscastingcoralfloaterfreshwaterhabitathookikaknotlinemamomarineoamaoopuopaereelsinkerswivelHow many angling words can you find?  Words go left to right, top to 
bottom, and diagonally, and they can overlap each other.  Circle eachword that you can find from the list.Japan knot
This knot is used on hooks only.
1.  Pass the line through the hook’s eye
from the point side, and run it along theshank of the hook.
2.  Make a loop (“A”) and wrap 3 or 4
times around the line and the hook’s shank.Keep your fingers on this part of the knotuntil it’s tight.
3.  Pass the end back through the loop
(“A”) and pull tight.
4.  Hold the hook and line, and pull the
knot tight.  Trim the end of the line.
Loop
“A”7How do I cast a rod and reel?
It’s a good idea to practice casting before you go fishing with a rod and reel for the first time.
You can tie a practice plug or a wooden floater to your line for weight.  Then go out to an openarea and practice till you’re (almost) perfect.  This is how to cast with a small spincasting reel.
1.  Let the plug hang down a few inches
below the rod tip.  Make sure the line isn’twrapped around the rod.  Put your indexfinger on the rod’s “trigger” to make surethe rod doesn’t go flying away when youcast.
6.  If the plug goes high into the air,
you’re letting go of the button toosoon.  If the plug plops onto theground in front of you, you’re lettinggo too late.  Just keep practicing untilyou get it right.2.  Look behind and around you, and make sure no one is standing too close.  Also look to see
that you won’t get your line tangled in any trees or bushes.
3.  Push and hold down the release button
on the back of the reel.
4.  Using mostly your wrist (not your whole arm), bring the rod back
over your shoulder.
5.  Gently swing the rod forward (using wrist action again), and let go
of the release button just after the rod is straight up.  You don’t have tothrow hard to make the plug go far.
Let go just past here Let go too soon
Let go too late8What can I use for bait?
What you use for bait depends on what kind of fish you want to catch.  Some fish eat plants,
some eat animals, some eat just about anything.  Always be careful when you put on bait, soyou don’t poke yourself with the hook.
Most small reef fish love ‘opae
(shrimp), especially when it’salive.  The only problem is youhave to catch the ‘opae and keepthem alive.  Hook live ‘opaethrough the tail.  If the ‘opae isdead, put the hook through thetail the long way.
Fish that only eat other fish will
go for live medaka (minnow)
as bait.  Hook the medakaeither through the mouth justbehind the lips, or through theback just below the dorsal fin.Frozen shrimp works well with many
fish.  You can use the shell to helphold the meat on the hook.
Ika(cuttlefish) is also a very good
bait.  Just cut it into little pieces andput it on your hook.  Both frozenshrimp and ika are found in yoursupermarket.
Doughballs can be used to catch fish that aren’t
too picky about what they eat.  Doughballs aremade from flour, water, and some kind of fishsauce (like canned sardines).
Bread works well for some fish.  The bread
needs to be soft, so you can wrap it around thehook and it will stay together.  Pinch it tightaround the shank so it stays on.  Leave it kindof fluffy around the bend of the hook.
Live ‘opaeDead ‘opae
ShrimpIka
MedakaDorsal fin
Doughball Bread9Worms are good bait for many freshwater
fish.  Push your hook sideways throughthe worm for fish with large mouths, likebass or catfish.  For fish with smallermouths, like ‘o‘opu, push your hookthrough the worm the long way.
Lures aren’t bait, but look like something a fish
would want to eat.  There are many types of lures.The best way to use a lure is to move it kind ofquickly through the water so the fish has to attackit.  If a fish has too much time to check out a lure,the fish will figure out that the lure isn’t real foodafter all.  Lures are used with a rod and reel, butnot a bamboo pole.
The table below shows what kind of bait works well with certain types of fish:
Fish Line (leader) Hook Bait
(pound test) (type, size)
Saltwater*
Aholehole 2 - 4 AH 13 Shrimp, ika
Hinalea 2 - 4 Limerick 12 Shrimp, ika, breadKupipi 2 - 4 Limerick 12-15 Shrimp, ikaMamo 2 - 4 Limerick 12-15 Shrimp, ika‘U‘u (menpachi) 4 - 6 AH 13 Shrimp‘Oama 1 - 2 Limerick 18-20 Shrimp
*All of these fish will go for live ‘opae
Freshwater
Largemouth bass 6 - 8 Limerick 6 Crayfish, medakaChannel catfish 6 - 10 O’Doul 1 Liver, wormTilapia 4 - 6 Limerick 7 Bread, doughballsTrout 4 - 6 Limerick 6 Worm, medakaTucunare 4 - 6 Limerick 4 Medaka‘O‘opu nakea 4 - 6 Limerick 10 Worm
10Where do fish live?
If you want to catch fish, you have to know where to look for them.  Fish will usually be found
in places that have food for them to eat, places to hide from bigger fish, and clean water.  Fishneed these things in order to survive.
Where a fish lives is called its habitat .  Fish live in either freshwater or saltwater habitats.  In
Hawai‘i there are many more kinds of saltwater ( marine ) fish than freshwater fish. Many fish
like to feed and hide near underwater objects.  In the ocean, fish are attracted to coral reefs orother places that give them shelter.  Many types of fish will be able to find food on and abovehealthy coral reefs.  In streams and reservoirs, fish like to hide and feed near weeds, fallen trees,or behind rocks and boulders.
The ocean has different types of habitats for fish.Many fish like coral reefs, but others stay aroundboulders or sandy bottom areas.  Which type ofhabitat do your think will attract the most fish?What kind of food can fish find in sandy bottomareas?  Where can fish hide in this picture?
11Clean water is very important to fish.  Most seaweeds and water plants can only grow in clean
water.  Seaweeds and plants are food for some fish.  Coral also needs clean water to live andgrow.  You won’t find very many fish in places where coral or plants can’t survive, like in pol-luted water.  Most of the plants and animals that can live in dirty water are not good food forfish (or people).
Pollution isn’t the only thing that can mess up a fish’s home.  In some places, people catch fish
by putting bleach into the water and waiting for the stunned fish to come out of their holes.This is a terrible thing to do to fish and their habitat, because it will kill part of the reef andkeep other fish away for a long time.  Dropping anchors on coral, or taking coral out of thewater, also takes away habitat.  When habitats are messed up or destroyed, fish have to moveaway and find someplace else to live.
There are different types of freshwater habitats, too.Some fish like streams, others like reservoirs.  Wheredoes the stream end and the reservoir begin?  Can youfind the ‘o‘opu in the stream?
Do you think the water on these two pages is polluted?
How can you tell?Answer:  No, because there are lots of fish.12How do fish...
Swim? A fish swims by moving its tail
from side to side.  It uses its other fins tohelp it steer, swim backwards, and keepitself right-side-up in the water.
See? Fish have very good vision, and many
fish can probably see colors.  Fish see best atclose range.  Fish that are active mostly atnight will have big eyes to let in more light.
Hear? Fish have ear bones inside their heads,
and can hear pretty well.  A fish also has alateral line that runs along both sides of thebody and acts a little like an ear.  It lets thefish know when something is moving in thewater nearby.
Breathe? A fish has gills on each side of its head.
The fish takes water in through its mouth, passes itover the gills, and out through the gill opening.  Thegills take oxygen out of the water and put it into thefish’s blood.
Smell? A fish has two nostrils on its head.  Each
nostril has two openings.  Water goes in one openingand out the other.  A fish does not breathe throughits nostrils.  Fish have a very good sense of smell.
Taste? A fish has tastebuds on its tongue and
inside its mouth.  Some fish, like goatfish, havebarbels (“whiskers”) near their mouths.  The
barbels also have tastebuds, and help the fishfind its food.
Eat? Fish that eat plants usually have small
mouths with fine teeth, and bite off little partsof a plant at a time.  Fish that eat other fishhave big mouths with sharp teeth, which keepthe prey from escaping.
Lateral line
Barbels
Plant
eaterMeat eater13Safe Fishing
Whenever you go fishing, tell someone (an adult) where you’re going and when you think
you’ll be back.  Don’t go fishing alone — take along a friend or a parent.
Fishing is an outdoor sport, so you
need to watch out for the sun.Wear a hat and shirt, and put onsunscreen.  Wear sunglasses toprotect your eyes.
Bare feet are not a good idea when you go fishing.
Wear shoes, not slippers.  Be careful where you step.
Watch out for waves.  They can
get big real fast.  Stay off wetrocks by the water’s edge.  Neverturn your back on the ocean.
Wear a life preserver when you fish
at reservoirs with steep banks, onboats, or other places where youcould fall into deep water.  Learn toswim if you don’t know how.
Be careful with hooks — when you’re tying them on and when you’re casting.  If you get
poked, and the hook doesn’t go in past the barb, just pull it out.  If the hook is in past the barb,it’s best to have a doctor remove it.  If you can’t wait that long, you could have an adult removeit.  One way is by looping a string or line around the bend of the hook.  Push down on the shankand pull the line (see the diagrams below).  See a doctor afterwards in case you need a tetanusshot.
Courtesy of O. Mustad & Son (U.S.A.) Inc.14What kind of fish can I catch?
Aholehole
The aholehole is a silver fish that is often found swimming in schools.  It likes to swim around
rocks and coral heads, and is usually caught in the late evening and at night.
Aholehole eat small crabs and shrimp, so shrimp is a good bait.  Aholehole can grow to be
about 12 inches long.  The aholehole is found in Hawai‘i and nowhere else.
Hinalea
The hinalea is a very common fish in Hawai‘i, and is one of the easiest fish to catch on the reef.It has a purplish blue head, orange “saddle” behind the head, and a green body.
Hinalea feed mostly during the day, and eat seaweed and small crabs.  Shrimp is good bait.
Hinalea can grow to be about 12 inches long.  The hinalea is found only in Hawai‘i.Saltwater fish
15Kupipi
The kupipi is a small fish, found in shallow reef and boulder areas.  It usually swims alone or in
small groups.  Young kupipi are often found in tidepools.
The kupipi’s color is grayish brown with lighter stripes, and it has dark spots on its tail and dor-
sal fin.  It can grow to be about 9 inches long.  It eats mostly during the day, and likes seaweedand small crabs.  You can catch kupipi using shrimp or ika for bait.
Mamo
The mamo is another common fish on Hawai‘i’s reefs.  It is found in shallow water, and oftenswims in small groups.  Young mamo are very common in tidepools.
The mamo is a pale greenish color with black bars.  The lower sides are often yellow, but not
always.  It can grow to be about 9 inches long.  Mamo eat mostly during the day, and like smallcrabs and other shellfish.  You can catch it on shrimp or ika.  The mamo is found only inHawai‘i.
16
‘U‘u (menpachi)
The Hawaiian name for this fish is ‘u‘u, but most people call it by its Japanese name, menpachi .
This fish is brick red, and at night its lower sides become a silvery color.
The menpachi is a schooling fish, and during the day it hides in caves.  It feeds at night, and
likes to eat small crabs and shrimp, so shrimp is a good bait to use.  Some menpachi can growto be about 14 inches long.
‘Oama
The ‘oama is a baby weke, and is a fun fish to catch with a bamboo pole.  Its color is silverywhite with a yellow stripe along the side, and it has barbels under its chin.  When an ‘oamagrows to be more than 7 inches, it is a weke.
‘Oama are found in shallow sandy areas during late summer, usually in large schools.  They
feed by night and day, and eat small crabs and shrimp.  ‘Opae is the best bait to use for ‘oama.Some people like to eat ‘oama; others like to use them as bait for larger fish (like papio).17
Largemouth bass
The largemouth bass lives mostly in reservoirs in Hawai‘i, and is usually found close to shore
near underwater logs or weeds.  Its color is dark green above and white below, with a darkstripe or blotches along the side.
Bass feed mostly in the early morning and late evening, and like to eat small fish, crayfish and
frogs.  Crayfish and medaka make good bait.  Largemouth bass were first brought to Hawai‘i in1896.
Channel catfish
The channel catfish has barbels around its mouth.  It uses them to help find food.  The channelcatfish’s color is a dark bluish gray above, and lighter below.  It has dark spots on its sides, andits color gets darker as the fish gets older.
Channel catfish live mostly in reservoirs in Hawai‘i.  They feed on the bottom, so that’s where
you need to put your bait.  Catfish like to eat small fish, clams, and snails.  Liver is a good bait,and many people soak the bait in their own secret recipes to make it smell strong (“stinkbait”)and attract more fish.  Channel catfish were first brought to Hawai‘i in 1958.Freshwater fish18
Tilapia
The tilapia is a fish that you can find all over the place, in many streams and reservoirs.  Tilapia
are usually a dark gray color, but some types are orange or yellow.
The tilapia mostly eats algae, but isn’t a very picky eater and will eat just about anything it can.
It is an easy fish to catch, and doughballs make good bait.  Tilapia were first brought to Hawai‘iin 1951.
Tucunare
The tucunare is one of the most fun fish to catch in fresh water.  The tucunare’s color is yellowwith a green back and white belly, and it has dark bars on the sides.  It also has a black spot onits tail.
Tucunare live mostly in the larger reservoirs in Hawai‘i.  They feed on small fish, so medaka is
a good bait to use.  Tucunare were first brought to Hawai‘i in 1957.19
Rainbow trout
The rainbow trout is a fish that likes cold water.  In Hawai‘i it lives on the islands of Kaua‘i and
Hawai‘i, in cold water streams and a few reservoirs.  The rainbow trout is bluish green aboveand silvery below, with a pink stripe along the sides.  Its back, sides, and fins have small blackspots.
Rainbow trout feed on fish eggs and small fish.  Worms or medaka can be used for bait, and
salmon eggs work well.  Rainbow trout were first brought to Hawai‘i in 1920.
‘O‘opu nakea
The ‘o‘opu nakea is one of only five freshwater fishes that are native to Hawai‘i.  All of thesenative fish are called ‘o‘opu , and live most of their lives in streams.
After adult ‘o‘opu lay their eggs, and the eggs hatch, the young ‘o‘opu are swept out to sea.
After a few months, when they are still pretty small, they return and make their way back up thestreams.  At this time they are called hinana .
The ‘o‘opu nakea is the largest ‘o‘opu, and can grow to be 11 to 14 inches long.  It is a light
brown color, with dark blotches.  It has a dark patch on its tail, and dark stripes on its fins.‘O‘opu eat algae, worms, and snails.  Worms are the best bait.  The other ‘o‘opu are found onlyin Hawai‘i, but nakea is also found in the South Pacific.20
How do I catch a fish?
First of all, find a place where you think there might be fish to catch (see pages 10-11).  There
are some areas where fishing is illegal, or where you can only fish with certain types of gear.These places are listed in the Hawai‘i Fishing Regulations booklet.  If you have to cross over
private property to get to a fishing spot, be sure to get permission from the people who own theproperty.  Once you’re at the spot:
Set up your bamboo pole or rod and reel.  Bait the hook.
If you’re using a rod and reel, cast out your line.  Set the drag tight
enough so you can set the hook, but loose enough so a fish won’tbreak your line.  ( “Setting the hook” means pulling back on your
line fast to poke the hook through the fish’s mouth.)
If you’re using a bamboo pole, just flip the line into the water.Watch your floater.  When it starts to wiggle, a fish is nibbling at
your bait.
It takes practice to know when to set the hook, but when the floater
goes under water you pull back on your rod and hope the hook getsset in the fish’s mouth.  If you pull back too soon, you’ll just pull thehook out of the fish’s mouth.  If you wait too long, the fish mightswallow it.
It’s easy to pull in a fish with a bamboo pole.  With a rod and reel
you need to keep the line tight so the hook can’t come back out.Pull the rod back, then reel in line as you lower the rod.  Keepdoing that until the fish is close enough for you to land.
If the fish is small, you can just lift it out of the water with your
pole.  If it’s big enough that it might break the line, scoop it out ofthe water with a landing net.21
I caught a fish.  Now what do I do?
What fish can I keep?You need to decide whether or not you want to keep your fish.  If you’re not going to eat it, or if
it’s pretty small, release it carefully and let it go.  Be careful when you handle fish, because
they often have sharp spines on their fins.
To release a fish, keep it in the water as
much as you can, handle it gently, anddon’t touch the eyes.  Take the hook outwith your fingers or pliers.  If the fish hasswallowed the hook, cut the line as closeto the hook as you can.  The fish will beall right.  Get the fish back in the water asquick as you can.
It’s a good idea to use barbless hooks if
you plan to let your fish go.  You can makea barbless hook by just squeezing the barbflat with a pair of pliers.  Barbless hooksare easier to remove from a fish, and don’thurt the fish as much when pulled out.
If you’re going to keep your fish and eat it, you should throw it into a cooler on ice if possible.
Or you can keep it alive by putting it in a wire basket or on a stringer and leaving it in thewater.  Otherwise, keep it wet and out of the sun so it doesn’t start to spoil. The fish will need tobe cleaned, but you should let an adult do that.
Only keep fish that you are going to eat.  Also, there
are laws that tell you what fish you can’t keep.  Somefish have a minimum size — if they’re too small you
have to let them go so they can grow big enough tospawn (lay eggs) at least once.  Aholehole and manyfreshwater fishes have a minimum size.
Some fish can’t be kept during their closed seasons ,
certain months of the year when they spawn.  And somefish have bag limits , which means you can only keep a
certain number of that kind of fish.  It’s important toknow the rules for fishing.  You should get a copy ofthe Hawai‘i Fishing Regulations from a fishing store or
the Division of Aquatic Resources.Barb Barbless22
Which fish are keepers?
In Hawai‘i, some fish have to be a certain length (minimum size) in order for an angler to keep
them.  It’s important to know the rules.  In our fishpond the rule is that the fish has to be at least4 inches long including the tail.Circle the fish that are keepers.23
Food chain maze
Fish and other water animals need food, and they like to stay around places where there’s lots to
eat.  A food chain tells us what gets eaten by what.  Try to follow the ulua through its food
chain.
Uluaeats
Eel ‘U‘u Shrimp Limueats eats eats
24How can I help make fishing better in
Hawai‘i?
Be safe. Be careful when casting, and pick up all your fish hooks.
Know the rules. Fishing regulations protect fish, mostly to help them spawn.  They also help
more people to catch fish.  The idea behind all fishing rules is to keep the numbers of fishes inHawai‘i’s waters from becoming too low.  So following the rules is very important.
Be courteous. Fish quietly so you don’t bother other anglers.  Don’t crowd other anglers, cross
your line over theirs, or disturb them in other ways.  Treat other anglers the way you’d like themto treat you.
Don’t litter. Pick up your old fishing line, leftover bait, and anything else on the ground.
Some of these things can be dangerous to people, and some can harm fish if blown into thewater.  Leave your fishing area a little cleaner than it was when you came.
Catch and release. Keep only the fish you’re going to eat, and carefully let others go.  Use
barbless hooks whenever you can.  The fun of fishing is in catching the fish.  If you let your fishgo, it will live to fight another day.25The Department of Land and Natural Resources receives financial support under the
Federal Aid in Sport Fish and Wildlife Restoration and other federal programs.  UnderTitle VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,Title II of the Americans with Disabilitites Act of 1990, the Age Discrimination Act of1975, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and the laws of the State ofHawaii, the U.S. Department of the Interior and the State of Hawaii prohibit discrimi-nation on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, and disability.  Ifyou believe that you have been discriminated against in any program, activity or facili-ty, or if you desire information, please write to: Affirmative Action Officer, PersonnelOffice, Department of Land and Natural Resources, 1151 Punchbowl Street, Rm. 231,Honolulu, HI 96813, or the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, Civil Rights Branch, 4040 N.Fairfax Drive, Suite 300, Arlington, V A 22203.

--- Text from PDF (https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/files/2014/04/hibook.pdf) ---
A Keiki Activity Bookillustration by Ben Lueders
Why 
is 
Hawaii’s 
ocean 
important?Why is Hawaii’s ocean important?  A keiki activity book
A publication of NOAA/National Centers for Coastal Ocean Sciences
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf1Toothpaste, poke, puka shell necklaces, medicine and rain are just some of the things that come from the ocean.  
In many ways--more than we know--we are connected to the ocean. Without it, 
we could not survive. And guess what? the ocean depends on us too! 
Everything we do, including watering the grass, throwing away rubbish and 
snorkeling, has a huge effect on the sea and the creatures who live there. 
Anything that goes down 
a drain in your house or neighborhood eventually makes its way to the ocean. 
Grabbing or standing on 
coral can kill it, not to mention threatening the animals and plants living there.  
it’s easy to see that by 
taking good care of the ocean, we take good 
care of ourselves.Why is Hawaii’s ocean important?
Humuhumunukunukuapuaa (Ben Lueders)Answers: baseball, surfboard, hat, tire, 2 bottles, clock, bottle cap, ﬁ  shing pole, snorkel mask, golf ball, 
anchor, barrel of toxic waste, 6-pack plastic ring, glasses, broom, soda can, football, rubber slipper, boot, hammer, nails
marine debris (Ben Lueders)
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfCan you find and color 21 things wrong with this reef?
Answers are at the bottom of this page.What is wrong with this reef? 
2 
Help the lauwiliwilinukunukuoioi f ind its way home while keeping 
away from the pollution. 
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important?  A keiki activity book
Activity from the Waikiki Aquarium
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfKeep our ocean clean
1
3corals are living animals, not rocks. can you find at least 12 
animals living among the coral and algae?
Answers: wrasse (3), moorish idol, sea star, sea horse, trumpetﬁ  sh, scorpionﬁ  sh, anglerﬁ  sh, octopus, surgeonﬁ  sh, lizardﬁ  sh, 
spiny lobster, featherduster worm, hermit crab, coral goby, shrimpﬁ  sh, ﬂ  ounder, sea slug and more.
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Waikiki Aquarium
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfThe Reef is Alive!
4Secret Code
Unlock the secret message 
hiding in these special code symbols. use the chart on the right to Replace the shapes below with the letter equal to it.
goatfish (Ben Lueders)
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii’s Living Reef Campaign.
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf= G = E
= F= S
= A= D= O
 = I
= V=N= L
= R=U
_      _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  
 _  _  _  _!  
Answer: A living reef gives our islands life!
5Make a Look Box
5. Allow the caulk to dry for 24 hours.
6. Check for leaks by ﬁ  lling the bucket. If it leaks, you can either start over or add a bead 
of caulk to the inner and outer edges of the acrylic. Remember to treat all marine life with respect. If you do use the look box for holding marine life, place only one animal in the bucket 
at a time. 
* BE A GOOD REEF VISITOR and Have fun! *2. Cut out the bottom of the bucket with a 
coping or thin bladed saw. Leave a ¼  - ½ inch lip.
3. Lay down a bead of clear silicone caulk on the 
inside of the lip.
4. Insert a piece* of clear acrylic (e.g., Plexiglas ®) 
or plastic. Press down to get a good seal. You do not have to clean up the excess caulk that squeezes out (it will probably just smear anyway).
*You can get a piece of 3/16 inch acrylic cut to your required dimensions via any of the local plastic companies. Check the Yel-low Pages for companies or you can cut your own sheet of plastic purchased from a hardware store.
2-5 gal. bucket
cut
Caulk
Add clear plastic
Finished look boximportant: this activity requires the help of a responsible adult. 
When using the box please take care not step on the coral. have fun and enjoy our beautiful ocean!
1.  Determine the size of the look box. For children, we favor 1 gallon buckets. Adults may wish 
to have a 2 - 5 gallon bucket. You can get these buckets* from paint or hardware stores. 
*Other options exist as well. Kitchen buckets are often too ﬂ  imsy and containers with low edges tend to swamp, but plastic 
ﬂ ower pots and other tall-sided containers make acceptable look boxes. 
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Waikiki Aquarium
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf6Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf
7Blacktip reef shark and limu kohu (Ben Lueders)Northwestern hawaiian islands word search
How many of these words can you find? Words can be backwards, forwards, diagonal and, even, backwards and diagonal. 
Plants and Animals
Limu Loulu Monk Seal Sanctuary Geology
Atoll Coral Sand Sea mount Volcano Islands
Kure LaysanMokumanamana Pearl 
M N A S Y A L V A S L KB O A L A K O Q L A L US N K E R L N A E N O RD C S U C A R O Z C T EL A W A M O E G g T A IL L N G C A D P O U L GV O s t n d N Q P A A VH G U E E E W A X R c NX R O L u m I L M Y S JG M B S U Y J W D A L     WP O l a e s k n o m N Ns e a m o U n t W H K A
Mark HeckmanWhy is our ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Northwestern Hawaiian Isalnds Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf8M N A S Y A L V A S L KB O A L A K O Q L A L US N K E R L N A E N O RD C S U C A R O Z C T EL A W A M O E G g T A IL L N G C A D P O U L GV O s t n d N Q P A A VH G U E E E W A X R c NX R O L u m I L M Y S JG M B S U Y J W D A L     WP O l a e s k n o m N Ns e a m o U n t W H K ANorthwestern hawaiian islands word search answers
Plants and Animals
Limu is the Hawaiian word for seaweed.
Loulu palms are endemic to Hawaii.
The Hawaiian Monk Seal  is endemic to Hawaii.
Sanctuary is a safe place for plants and animals to live.
Geology
Atoll is a ring-shaped coral island that encloses a lagoon.
Coral is an animal that creates a hard skeleton.  A collection of coral can form 
reefs or islands.  
White Sand  is made up of ground up coral, seashells, algae and even tiny skeletons.
Sea mount is an island beneath the sea. 
Volcano es created the island chain by spilling out molten lava.Islands
Kure atoll is the last in the chain and a true atoll.
Laysan Island  has one of five natural lakes in the state.
Mokumanamana  is the original Hawaiian name for Necker Island, one of the first two 
islands in the Northwestern Hawaiian Island chain. 
Pearl and Hermes Reef is one of the more northern in the chain. Hawaiian pearl oysters were 
harvested here until too many were taken.Guess whose shark teeth!
Directions: Match the shark teeth on the left to the shark 
that they belong to on the right.
A. Scalloped Hammerhead
B. Galapagos
D. Tiger
1.
2.
3.
4.Answers: 1.B, 2.A, 3.D, 4.CIllustrations by Ben LuedersC. Grey Reef
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf
Each species of shark has a distinct shape to their teeth. Using just one tooth, scientists can identify the shark to which it belongs!
9write your own comic strip
if they could talk, what would sea creatures say to each other? Take 
a look at this ocean scene and write things they would say. 
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf
 Ben Lueders
10Matching game: larvae to adult
when many sea creatures hatch from their egg, they are called larvae. often, 
larve look different from the adults they will become.
Can you match the adults on the left with their larval form on the right? 
answers are at the bottom of this page.
Illustrations by Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfA. Flounder
B. Pencil Urchin
C. Scorpionﬁ  sh
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.D. Cauliﬂ  ower Coral
E. Sea SnailAnswers: A.2, B.5, C.1, D.3, E.4
111. Draw two oval eyes.
2. Draw the face, nose and mouth.
3, Draw dots in and next to the eyes. 
Draw a chin and dots for whiskers near the nose. Draw the body.
4. Draw ﬂ  ippers and a tail. Erase 
the bottom portion of  the head  leaving the chin. You are ﬁ  nished!How to draw a monk seal
Directions: Use a pencil, for you will have to erase a line at the end.When you are 
finished, you can trace over the pencil lines in pen or color your seal.
There are fewer than 1500 Hawaiian monk seals left in the world.  Baby monk seals (called pups) make a “mwaa, mwaa, mwaa” sound when calm and a loud “aaah” or “gaah” when scared.  Adults make a “bub-bling” sound when alarmed.
Illustrations by Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf12Whale Identification
Scientists identify individual humpback whales by studying their tails, which are also known 
as flukes. The scalloping, color patterns and scars on the underside of the flukes are as unique as your fingerprints.
Approximately 5,000 humpback whales migrate to the warm, protected waters of Hawaii each 
year, making Hawaii a great place for whale researchers to learn more about this endan-gered species.
match the numbered flukes on the left with the flukes on the right.
1
2
3
4A
B
C
DAnswers: 1 D, 2 B, 3 A, 4 C
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf13local names
Because of Hawaii’s many different cultures, some sea creatures have many 
different names. Can you match up the creatures on the left with their local 
names on the right?
*HInt: Some of them may have more than one name. Answers are at the bottom of this page.
A. Naia (Hawaii)
B. Mano puele (Hawaii) c. hee (Hawaii)D.     Tako (Japan)E.     Manini (Hawaii)F .      Menpachi (Japan)G.     Marracho tigre (Portugal) H.      Wawaeiole (Hawaii)I.        Popoklo (philippines)
J.       Uu (Hawaii)
1. Octopus
2. Dolphin
3. Soldierfish
4. Convict Tang
5. Tiger Shark (juvenile)
Illustrations by Ben LuedersAnswers: 1. C&D, 2. A, 3. F&J, 4. E, 5. B&G, 6. H&I 
6. Codium Edule
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf14Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf15Color by number 
Color in this adult and juvenile UHU (Parrotfish) using the color key as your guide.
1=  Cerulean (Bright blue)2= blue3= turquoise4= orange5= pink6= lime-green7= yellow8= grey9= black
Parrotfish are a major source of sand.  As they graze on coral to get at algae hidden within, special bones in their throat grind up the coral chunks.  Eventually, the ground coral exits the back end of the fish as sand.
Adult and juvenile uhu (Ben Lueders)Limu press How to keep your own algal specimen
Directions for pressing your algae are on the folllowing page.
 Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the University of Hawaii at Manoa Department of Botany
 www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf16MATERIALS • pan with water • paper (index cards, botany paper or heavy cardstock)• waxed paper (cut into pieces to ﬁ  t the card/paper; need one piece per card)
• old newspaper (to absorb the moisture)• pieces of cloth/old sheets (cut into pieces to ﬁ  t over the cards/paper)
• pieces of corrugated cardboard• heavy weights• electric fan• brushes (to work the specimens)A  long time ago, before freeze drying and refrigeration, scientific explorers needed to 
invent a way to preserve samples of newly discovered plant species.  This inspired the creation of the plant press, a method that removes water from the plant. 
This activity uses the basic pressing techniques still used today by scientists.  Instead of 
selecting only one alga per sheet, you may decide to create a collage of seaweeds by arranging a few different types on one sheet.  This can become a notecard, a paperweight, or can be framed.1. Collect your algae.  Pinch, do not pull.
2. Bring them home in fresh SEAWATER.3. Spread newspaper on work area to keep it dry.4. Fill pan with clean seawater (about ½ inch deep).5. Select algae to be used.6. Place selected algae into pan of water.7. Put heavyweight paper in the water, under the selected algae.8. Float the alga into place.  You can spread, trim, and arrange.9.  Lift gently paper from water with the arranged algae.10. Drain carefully as much water as possible from the paper without disturbing your  
      arrangement.
11. Place the paper with your arrangement on a folded section of newspaper.12. Place a piece of waxed paper over the arrangement.13. Place a cloth over the waxed paper.14. Place another layer of folded newspaper over the cloth.15. Place corrugated cardboard squares on top & bottom      to help dry your “sandwich”.16. Repeat this process for as many algal sheets as you have.17. Set gently entire bundle into a plant press.  (Plant presses use heavy weight on top  
      to ﬂ  atten plants.)
18. Dry the stack with air ﬂ  ow to avoid mold and mildew.
19. Check stack after 24 hours.  Newspaper, cloth, and cardboard may need to be   
      changed if a lot of water has been absorbed to prevent mold and mildew forming.
20.  After 3-4 days, remove arrangements. Glue card onto construction paper cut 
about 1/4 to 1/2 inches wider and longer than arrangement sheet. (This will frame the 
arrangement.)Limu press continued
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the University of Hawaii at Manoa Department of Botany
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf17Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf18
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf 19 
Turtle True or False
1. Green sea turtles are 20 years old before they become adults.  T / F
2. Hawksbill sea turtles use their long, narrow beaks to search for food. T / F3. The Hawksbill sea turtle eat sponges that are poisonous to humans. T / F4. It is safe to eat hawksbill sea turtles. T / F5. The hawksbill sea turtle is native to Hawaii. T / F6. Sea turtles can pull their heads or ﬂ  ippers into their shells. T / F
7. The leatherback sea turtle has a hard shell. T / F8. The leatherback sea turtle is the world’s largest turtle. It can grow up to eight 
feet long and weight up to 2,000 pounds. T / FAnswers: 1. True, 2.True, 3.True, 4.False: Hawksbill Sea Turtle meat can be poisonous to humans, 5.True, 6.False, 7.False: The Leather-
back Sea Turtle has a soft shell, 8.TrueThree species of sea turtles are considered native to Hawaii:  green (honu), hawksbill (ea), and leatherback (lai).  Two other species, the loggerhead and olive ridley are sometimes observed in Hawaiian waters.
Test your knowledge of sea turtles. circle true or false next to the following 
sentences. Check your answers at the bottom of the page.
Illustration by Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf20
Mobile cutout
Supplies needed:
ScissorsPaper clipsHole punchPlastic drinking straws (3)
Illustrations by Ben Lueders
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf21
finger coral
ornate butterflyfishDIRECTIONS:
1. Color brown and green turf algae onto 
part of the ﬁ  nger coral.2. Cut out the four sea animals.3. Make 6 paper clip chains (two 6-inches and four 3-inches). 4. Thread and center a straw at the bot-tom of a 6-inch chain.5. On the left side of the same straw, thread the other 6-inch chain. On the right side thread a 3-inch chain.
CONTINUED ON PAGE 23Mobile cutout
DIRECTIONS CONTINUED FROM PAGE 22:
6. Thread and center a second straw at 
the bottom of the 6-inch chain.7. Thread and center a third straw at the bottom of the 3-inch chain.8. Attach the animals to the remaining 3-inch chains and attach to the ends of the straws.9. (Optional) Create another chain and attach the food chain explanation to your mobile. 
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf22
finger coral
ornate butterflyfishMobile cutout
how does this food chain 
work?
A food chain shows how some animals are herbivores (eat plants) and some are carni-
vores (eat animals).
A ﬁ  nger coral is a planktivore, a carnivore 
that eats animal larvae in the plankton. The ornate butterﬂ  yﬁ  sh is a corallinavore, a carnivore that eats coral.
The yellow tang is an herbivore. It eats the 
turf algae growing on coral.
The lizardﬁ  sh is a piscavore. It is a carnivore 
that eats both the yellow tang and ornate butteﬂ  yﬁ  sh.
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdfIllustrations by Ben Lueders
lizard fish
Yellow Tang
23Yellow Tang
Mobile cutout
lizard fish
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
Activity from the Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf24how does this food chain 
work?
A food chain shows how some animals are 
herbivores (eat plants) and some are carni-
vores (eat animals).
A ﬁ  nger coral is a planktivore, a carnivore 
that eats animal larvae in the plankton. The ornate butterﬂ  yﬁ  sh is a corallinavore, a carnivore that eats coral.
The yellow tang is an herbivore. It eats the 
turf algae growing on coral.
The lizardﬁ  sh is a piscavore. It is a carnivore 
that eats both the yellow tang and ornate butteﬂ  yﬁ  sh.Things you can do to help
1. Stand only in the sandy areas. Rocky areas are covered with a thin layer 
of living plants and animals, including very young coral. 
2. Enjoy watching ﬁ  sh, but do not feed them. Bread, peas, corn, other 
human foods and human-created ﬁ  sh foods can be harmful to ﬁ  sh. These foods change ﬁ  sh behavior or choke them. 3. Swim smoothly and calmly. That way you will be able to get closer to ﬁ  sh, and you won’t stir up sand that can make it harder to see them.  4. Pick up trash in the water or on the beach and place it in the rubbish bin. Plastic bags are often blown into the water by the wind. Sea turtles can mistake these plastic bags for jellyﬁ  sh, their natural food, and eat them and get very sick or die. 5. Use waterproof sunscreen when going into the ocean. Sunscreen that is not waterproof washes off into the water and pollutes the water. 
6. Use the restrooms found throughout the beach park. Going to the
bathroom in the water adds unwanted nutrients. 7. Do not take anything that belongs at the beach. Leave the rocks, shells, and sand there. Take only photos and memories away with you. 8. Share this information with a friend. Take the time to teach others how to take care of Hawaii’s living reefs and ocean.
Why is Hawaii’s ocean important? A keiki activity book
This activity was brought to you by the University of Hawaii Sea Grant
www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf25Copies of this activity book can be downloaded from: 
http://www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/hibook.pdf
for more activity books, visit the following pages:
Chesapeake Bay Activity Book: http://www.nccos.noaa.gov/education/cbbook
Coastal North Carolina Activity Book: http://www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/ncbook.pdf
Salish Sea Activity Book: http://www.coastalscience.noaa.gov/education/ssbook.pdf
Mobile Bay Activity Book: http://www.coastalscience.noaa/gov/education/mbbook.pdf
Produced by: Hawaii Coral Reef Initiative Research Program
Under the direction of: NOAA/National Centers for Coastal Ocean Sciences
 In collaboration with: Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary, Univer-
sity of Hawaii Sea Grant, Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve, 
University of Hawaii at Manoa Department of Botany, Waikiki Aquarium, State of Hawaii 
Division of Aquatic Resources, Hawaii’s Living Reef Campaign
Designed by Lisa Huynh
July 2005

--- Text from PDF (https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/files/2016/03/Fishing_in_Hawaii.pdf) ---
Written by Randy Honebrink.  Boating Safety section written by Pete Hendricks. 
Fish Poisoning material from Hawai‘i Dept. of Health publication Fish Poisoning in Hawaii .
Illustrations by Sharon Oetting, except as noted. 
Photos by Randy Honebrink, except pp. 61, 62 (DAR collection). 
Cover photos (clockwise from top):  Tai Sing Loo*, Randy Honebrink, Ray Jerome Baker*, 
Randy Honebrink, Alonzo Gartley*, Annette Tagawa.   * Courtesy of Bishop Museum. 
Fishing in Hawai‘i: A Student Manual is produced by the Education 
Section, Hawai‘i Division of Aquatic Resources.  Funding is provided 
in part by the Federal Aid in Sport Fish Restoration Program, through 
your purchase of fishing equipment and motor boat fuels. 
© 1990, 2006, 2016 Hawai‘i Division of Aquatic Resources 
DIVISION OF AQUATIC RESOURCES 
Department of Land and Natural Resources 
1151 Punchbowl Street, Room 330 
Honolulu, HI   96813 Contents 
Fishing Gear  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Bamboo Poles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Rods and Reels  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Line  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 
Knots  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 
Hooks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 
Lures and Baits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 
Other Tackle  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 
Tackle Boxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 
Fishing Methods and Techniques  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 
Angling Methods  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 
Basic Angling Techniques  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 
Other Fishing Methods  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 
Cleaning a Fish  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 
Fishing Safety  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 
Dealing With the Sun  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 
Shoreline Safety  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 
Boating Safety  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 
Hook Removal  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 
Fish Poisoning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 
Dangerous Marine Organisms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 
Fish Biology and Habitat  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 
Fish Biology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 
Habitat  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 
Conservation and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 
Regulations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 
Management by Area  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 
Habitat Enhancement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 
Introduced Species and Stock Enhancement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 
How You Can Help  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 
Fish Identification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 
Suggested Reading  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 Hawai‘i Division of Aquatic Resources1FISHING GEAR 
Bamboo Poles There are lots of ways to catch a fish.  Different types of nets, spears, and hooks and line have 
been used in Hawai‘i for centuries, and many are still in use today.  Some of these methods 
will be discussed in the next chapter. 
Any type of fishing that's done with a hook is known as angling (the old English word for a fish 
hook was “ angle ”).  You don't need a rod and reel to be an angler.  You can get by with just a hook 
and line (for example, handline fishing, which is described later).  Next to a simple handline, the 
most basic type of angling gear used in Hawai‘i is the bamboo pole rig. 
Many kids caught their first fish with just a bamboo pole, line, small hook and bait.  Bamboo poles 
are inexpensive, and great for beginners of all ages.  Not only are they easier to use than rods and 
reels, but they help develop the most basic fishing skills.  You'll learn to select line, tie line to 
hooks and the pole, and choose and present bait.  Most importantly, you'll learn how and when to 
set the hook and bring in a fish.  A basic bamboo pole rig is shown above. 
Bamboo poles aren't just for beginners.  Short ones are the gear of choice for ‘oama fishing; longer 
bamboo poles are often used to fish for akule and halalū, and reef fish in general.  The advantage 
of bamboo poles is that they provide better control in placing the bait — you can rest the bait on 
the surface or put it anywhere you see fish.  In addition, you're less likely to get your line tangled 
with those of other anglers, especially if you're on a pier or shoreline that's shoulder-to-shoulder 
with people during a halalū run. 
If you're buying a bamboo pole, get one that has lots of “ knuckles” on the stalk.  The knuckles are 
the strongest points of the pole.  Be sure there are no worm holes or soft spots present, and the 
skin is a glossy yellowish coloration.  The tip should be very small.  Most bamboo poles bought in 
fishing supply stores will have a loop of cotton cord at the tip for attaching the line.  If you have a 
pole without a loop, you can either add one or attach the line behind the first knuckle as shown in 
the following diagram. Limerick hook 
Split shot Plastic floater Monofilament A bamboo pole rig 2Fishing with rod and reel is the most popular way to catch a fish.  Many anglers would argue that 
it's also the most sporting method, and the most exciting.  There is no sound that compares with 
the scream of a reel as an unseen fish rips line off your spool, and the fight begins. 
All reels have one basic function - to store, pay out and retrieve line.  We'll look at the types of 
reels shortly, but first some reel terminology: 
Spool — the part of the reel that stores line; 
Drag — the braking system of the reel, creating friction to slow the rate at which line is pulled 
off the spool; 
Bail — on spinning reels only, a half-hoop of metal which revolves to take up line onto the 
spool; the bail is flipped open for casting; 
Gear ratio — the ratio of the number of turns of the spool or bail to the number of turns of the 
handle; for example, a gear ratio of 4/1 means that one complete turn of the handle will turn the 
spool or bail four times. 
Certain types of reels have other unique parts, and they will be described shortly. 
The main function of a rod is to act as a spring when casting, and to provide leverage when play -
ing a fish.  Different types of rods are used for different types of fishing, but there are certain fea -
tures common to all.  Some rod terminology: 
Shaft — the main part of the rod; 
Reel seat — the area where the reel is attached to the rod; 
Ferrules — joints that hold rod sections together; 
Guides — the loops through which line passes; 
Butt guide — the guide closest to the reel; 
Tip top — the guide at the end of the rod. 
Rod shafts are made of various materials, including fiberglass, graphite or boron.  Many rods are 
made of combinations (or composites ) of these materials.  Fiberglass rods are the most rugged, and 
boron rods are the most sensitive.  Graphite rods are more sensitive than fiberglass, and graphite Rods and Reels Attaching line to 
a bamboo pole 
Double line along pole behind last knuckle; take 
4 or 5 turns around line and pole, then pass line 
through loop as shown; pull line to tighten. 3composite rods are very popular.  They require more care than fiberglass 
since they are more easily scratched (a rod will be weakened at the point of a 
scratch).  Both boron and graphite are lighter and thinner than fiberglass and 
generally more comfortable to use.  The handle (or grip ) is usually made of 
cork or soft synthetic material, such as hypolon. 
There are four basic types of rods and reels, which we will now look at in 
some detail. 
Tip top 
Shaft 
Guide 
Ferrule 
Butt guide 
Ferrule 
Foregrip 
Reel seat 
Butt grip Spinning Gear 
Spinning reels are the most popular type used by shoreline fishermen and 
make excellent all-purpose reels.  They can be used in freshwater or salt- 
water, for small and medium sized fish.  The spool of a spinning reel does not 
revolve (except when a fish is pulling off line).  Instead, line is taken up by a 
revolving bail as the handle is turned.  In addition, the spool moves back and 
forth (or up and down, depending on how you're looking at it) so the line is 
spooled evenly.  When casting, you hold the line with your forefinger, flip 
open the bail, and release the line at the appropriate point in the cast. 
Because of the reel's open face design the line flows freely off the spool until 
the bail is snapped shut, either by hand or by turning the handle.  Spinning 
reels are designed to be mounted and used below the rod. 
With the right size line and reel, spinning reels can be used for long casts 
with fairly light lures, which is not possible with other types of reels.  In 
addition, spinning reels are relatively trouble-free and are easy to clean and 
maintain. 
Most spinning reels sold today have a skirted spool — the spool surrounds 
the rotating head of the reel instead of sitting inside it.  This design helps 
keep sand and water out of the housing, and reduces the chances of getting 
line caught inside the reel. 
Spinning rods always have a butt guide that is much larger in diameter than 
any of the other guides.  That's because of the reel's design — since line is 
coming off the spool in large spirals the butt guide must be big enough so as 
not to constrict the line's motion.  Going along the rod the guides become 
smaller in diameter.  The reel seat on a spinning rod does not have a finger 
grip (as we'll see in baitcasting and spincasting rods); your finger holds on to 
the leg of the reel.  Because the reel sits below the rod, spinning rods are 
built to flex toward the side on which the guides are mounted.  You shouldn't 
use a spinning rod with a casting reel, and vice versa. 
Parts of a spinning reel Parts of a spinning rod 
Handle Leg 
Anti-reverse lock Pole mount 
Bail 
Spool 
Drag control 
Bail roller 
Illustrations on this page courtesy of 
Penn Fishing Tackle Mfg. Co. 4Conventional Gear 
Conventional reels are reels in which the spool revolves when casting, and include everything 
from small baitcasting reels through large surfcasting reels, and on up to the largest trolling reels 
(although you don't really cast with these).  When retrieving line the reel acts as a winch. 
Conventional reels were the original reel design. 
Baitcasting gear is used mostly for freshwater fishing, and surfcasting gear is used primarily for 
slide-bait fishing (described in the next chapter).  We won't say much about trolling reels, but will 
concentrate instead on baitcasting and surfcasting reels ( casting reels, in general). 
Casting a spinning reel (below) .  1) The proper handhold; 2) Hold line and flip open the bail; 3) Point rod 
toward target; 4) Bring rod back and begin cast; 5) As rod passes overhead release line; 6) Follow through. 5
The major disadvantage of casting reels is that the revolving spool tends 
to keep revolving at the end of a cast, which results in overruns of the 
line ( backlashes ).  Finishing off a cast with a backlash is embarrassing 
and frustrating, not to mention a tremendous mess.  To avoid backlashes 
you need to apply a small amount of pressure to the spool with your 
thumb during the cast.  (When using surfcasting reels, you'll want to 
pour fresh water over the spool before casting so the friction doesn't 
burn your thumb.)  Fortunately, the newer casting reels are equipped 
with cast controls , centrifugal brakes that reduce the risk of backlashes. 
The cast control is adjusted to the weight of the lure or bait. 
Many casting reels have a feature known as a level wind which tracks 
side to side in front of the spool, laying the line down evenly on the 
spool; it disengages when casting.  On reels without a level wind the 
line must be moved across the spool with your thumb to spool evenly. 
Casting rods are different from spinning rods in several ways.  First, the 
reel is mounted above the rod.  Because the line comes straight off the 
reel, large guides are not needed.  Baitcasting rods usually have a finger 
grip under the reel seat for a more secure hold.  Rods for the larger surf -
casting reels don't have a finger grip.  Casting rods are built to flex away 
from the side on which the guides are mounted. 
Since we mentioned trolling reels earlier, a few words about trolling 
rods (boat poles) may be in order.  Trolling rods have roller guides to 
reduce the friction between the line and guides when fighting big fish. 
In addition, the butt of a trolling rod has cross grooves that lock into the 
boat's rod holder to keep the rod from rotating. 
Parts of a conventional reel 
Free-spool lever Conventional Reels (at left) 
l to r:  Baitcasting, surfcasting, 
trolling reels 
Handle 
Star drag Level wind Spool Pillar 
Illustrations on this page courtesy of 
Penn Fishing Tackle Mfg. Co. Trolling rod Baitcasting rod 6
7
Casting a surfcasting reel (at left) .  1) Pour water over spool; 2) Move lever to free-spool position; 3) Swing 
lead to gain momentum; 4) As lead (in circle) moves down and away, begin cast; 5) Release so lead is thrown 
into air at about a 45 degree angle for greatest distance; 6) Follow through with cast and 7) keep light thumb 
pressure on spool to avoid birdnest; 8) Use thumb to spool line evenly during retrieve. 
Casting a spincasting reel (below) .  1) Face target, press and hold thumb button down; 2) Bring rod back 
and begin cast; 3) As rod passes overhead release thumb button to let line out; 4) Follow through with cast. Spincasting Gear 
Spincasting reels are somewhat similar to spinning reels, especially since the spool does not 
revolve when casting.  However, spincasting reels are close-faced with a front cover (or nose cone )
over the spool.  In addition, there is no bail; a pick-up pin inside the cover is used to spool the line. 
The greatest advantage of spincasting reels is the ease with which they can be cast.  All you have 
to do is push a button on the back of the reel at the beginning of the cast, and release at the proper 
instant during the cast.  One disadvantage is that the line must come through the small hole in the 
cover, which makes casting with light lures more difficult than with a spinning reel.  Also, if your 
line becomes tangled on the spool, you have to remove the cover to straighten out the mess. 
Spincasting gear is very rarely used in Hawai‘i.  Although it's fine for freshwater fishing, it does 
not work well for saltwater fishing.  The closed face traps saltwater inside the reel, and cleaning 
becomes a big problem. 
Spincasting rods are essentially the same as baitcasting rods. 8Flyfishing Gear 
Flyfishing gear is totally different from any other type of gear with which a lure is cast.  Fly reels 
are basically just spools with a handle.  The reel is used mostly to store line, and is not involved in 
the cast.  However, the drag helps slow a fish down after it has been hooked.  Flyline is made of a 
braided core covered with a plastic coating.  It is heavier than other types of line and comes in dif -
ferent weights, tapers and floating characteristics. 
Freshwater flyfishing for rainbow trout has been popular on Kaua‘i for some time, and saltwater 
flyfishing has really caught on recently in Hawai‘i.  ‘Ōʻio (bonefish) are the target for most salt -
water fly fishers, but ‘ōmilu and other jacks are often hooked.  Both put up a terrific fight!  Most 
saltwater fly fishers release fish they have caught.  A barbless hook helps facilitate the release with 
minimal harm to the fish. 
Make Sure it's Balanced 
All components of your tackle should match up with each other.  You can't cast a light lure off a 
huge reel with heavy line.  Casting a heavy lure off a light rod might snap the rod.   All of your 
gear must be balanced .  The type of fish you're after will determine the type and size of lure (or 
bait) and hook you use, as well as the line size.  In order to cast effectively the reel size and rod 
length and action must match the line size and lure weight.  That's what's meant by balanced 
tackle — all of the elements are in proper relation to each other. 
Choosing a Rod and Reel 
When deciding what kind of rod and reel to buy, you should first consider the type of fish you 
will be fishing for, the size line and lure (or bait) you'll likely be using, and where you'll be fish -
ing.  With rods and reels you generally get what you pay for — the more you spend, the better the 
quality. 
Pick a reel with a spool that has enough capacity for the line you want to use (check the markings 
on the spool).  If it's a spinning reel make sure it has a skirted spool.  It should be salt-resistant and 
have a sturdy construction.  The drag should be smooth and adjustable over a fairly wide range. 
Find out how easy it is to get parts for the reel, since it will break down sooner or later.  Talk to 
other fishermen and find out what they like (and don't like) about the reel.  Get one with a good 
reputation. 
A fly reel In fly casting, it's the heavy line that is cast, 
and the lure (or fly) just goes along for the 
ride.  To cast flyline you pull line off the reel 
a little at a time, whipping the rod back and 
forth to gain momentum and propel the line, 
then let loose at the proper moment (which is 
determined only through lots of practice). 
Fly rods are usually eight to nine feet long, 
have small diameter guides, and are more 
flexible than most other types of rods.  They 
are made of various materials, including 
fiberglass and graphite.  A fly reel is mounted 
at the butt end of the rod, and hangs below it. 9Once you've found the reel of your dreams, picking out a rod is a little easier.  Again, you need to 
consider the type of fishing you'll be doing, especially how much weight you'll be casting.  Nearly 
all rods sold today have markings near the grip that tell you the rod length, action (ultralight 
through heavy), and recommended line and lure weights.  With an ultralight rod and a small reel, 
catching even little fish becomes a major fight.  If you're going after the monsters you'll need 
something with a heavy action, combined with a bigger reel.  If you'll be fishing from cliffs or 
making long casts, a long rod would be recommended. 
Consider what you want your rod to be made of (graphite composites are popular, but more expen -
sive than fiberglass).  The guides should not be plain stainless steel, since the line may dig grooves 
in them.  Ceramic or tungsten carbide guides are much better.  Check the guides for smoothness 
and a lack of obvious defects.  Holding the rod straight out in front of one eye with the guides 
straight down so that the rod is directly in the middle of them, make sure the guides are aligned 
with each other and with the reel seat, and that the rod doesn't curve to the side.  Again, the quality 
of the rod will be reflected in its price. 
Many serious fishermen have their rods custom built or build them themselves.  They know exact -
ly what they want in a rod and usually feel that the quality of a custom rod can't be matched by 
one that's commercially made.  Still, there are some excellent rods on the market. 
Caring For Your Rod and Reel 
There are a few basic rules that should always be followed when using a rod and reel.  First of all, 
never lay a rod and reel down in the sand or on rocks.  Getting sand inside a reel can do serious 
damage to the gears and other moving parts.  Sharp rocks can scratch the rod shaft, weakening the 
rod.  They can also put nicks in the guides, spool, bail or bail roller, which will damage your line. 
A rod lying on the ground is also likely to get stepped on, and you could easily end up breaking it. 
So lean your rod against a tackle box or on a towel, or whatever else is available. 
Reel markings 
Rod markings 
10 When fishing, you should never immerse a reel in saltwater, since it will be next to impossible to 
get the salt out again and the reel will start to corrode.  Also, use only the legs of the guides (not 
the eye) to hold your hook.  A guide scratched by a hook will damage your line. 
After fishing, loosen the drag to avoid deforming the drag washer.  Take the spool off and soak it 
in or spray it with fresh water to remove as much salt as possible.  Wash off your reel with fresh 
water, but don't blast it or soak it.  Oil moving parts according to the manufacturer's instructions. 
Wash off your rod thoroughly with fresh water, including the ferrules and reel seat.  Check the 
guides for nicks, chips, cracks, etc.  (A good way to check the guides is to run a piece of nylon 
stocking through them; the stocking will snag on any nicks.)  Replace any guides that are dam -
aged.  Wipe the reel seat and ferrules with an oily rag to keep them slightly lubricated.  The better 
care you take of your rod and reel, the better they'll perform for you, and the longer they'll last. Holding the hook: 
Use only the legs 
and guides 
Line is what connects you to your fish, and is probably the most important part of your tackle. 
There will usually be two parts to your line — the mainline , which is the line wrapped around your 
spool, and the leader , which is tied to your hook at one end and attached to the mainline at the 
other. 
There are three basic types of line — monofilament (also known locally as sugi ), braided line and 
flyline .  Flyline was mentioned briefly in the section on flyfishing gear, and that's about all we'll 
say about it.  Monofilament and braided line are described below.  (Information on other leader 
materials is given later in the chapter.) 
Monofilament 
Monofilament line consists of a single strand of nylon.  It may be clear, colored, semi-reflective (to 
make it easier to see your mainline at night), or designed to have reduced visibility (so fish have a Line 
From Pfeiffer & Sosin, Aquatic Resources 
Education Curriculum, ©1987 American Fishing 
Tackle Manufacturers Associatioin, reprinted by 
permission of Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co. 
Monofilament —a single strand of nylon 11 harder time seeing it).  One of monofilament's greatest advantages is that it stretches.  The shock 
of a strike is absorbed and the chances of the line snapping are reduced.  Monofilament is available 
in a variety of diameters and stiffnesses.  In general, a small diameter line works best for long 
casts.  If you are using a spinning reel with a small diameter spool, you'll want to put on line that 
is fairly limp.  “Hard type” monofilament is stiffer, and used mostly for leaders. 
Spools of monofilament 
Like other lines, monofilament comes in a variety of breaking strengths , which refers to the 
amount of weight or force the line can support before breaking.  For example, six pound test line 
breaks at six pounds of force, or pull.  Breaking strength is underestimated somewhat on certain 
types of monofilament, so a ten pound test line may break at between eleven and sixteen pounds of 
force.  Monofilament line used for record fishes must break at the actual line strength, and will 
usually carry the IGFA (International Game Fish Association) logo somewhere on the label. 
Tying a knot in a line weakens the line at that point.  Knot strength is a rating of line strength at 
the point where a knot is tied, and is given as a percentage of the line's breaking strength.  A knot 
with a knot strength of 90 per cent tied in a ten pound test line would be expected to hold nine 
pounds before the knot breaks. 
As strong as monofilament is, it will deteriorate with time.  Sun, salt, rocks and even water take 
their toll.  You should inspect the last few yards of your mainline whenever you get done fishing, 
feeling for abrasions.  Discard any line that's damaged or you'll increase the chances of losing a 
fish. 
Braided Line 
Braided line is fairly heavy limp line made of several strands of dacron.  It is usually used with 
conventional gear (it won't work well for casting with spinning gear), especially at depths below 
40 fathoms, and is best for catching big fish.  Lighter braided line is used for catching fish like 
akule and ‘ōpelu with handlines.  Because it doesn't stretch like monofilament, it makes feeling 
bites and setting the hook easier.  Braided line is more expensive than monofilament, and because 
it doesn't stretch will tend to break more easily. 12 Filling Your Spool 
To put line onto a conventional reel: 
1. Run the line through at least the butt guide of your rod. 
2. Tie the line onto the reel spool (a uniknot works well — see section on knots); make sure the 
line goes through the levelwind, if so equipped. 
3. Put a pencil through the center of the supply spool. 
4. Keep tension on the supply spool (have a friend hold it or hold it between your feet). 
5. Reel in the line from the supply spool. 
To fill a spinning reel: 
1. Have someone hold the supply spool, or put it on the floor.  Pull the line so it spirals off the end 
of the spool. 
2. Run the line through the butt guide of your rod. 
3. Flip open the bail, and tie the line onto the reel spool. 
4. Hold the rod about three feet away from the supply spool and turn the handle about twenty 
times. 
13 5. Move the rod closer to the supply spool and see if the slack line twists; if it does, flip the supply 
spool over and continue filling the reel spool. 
6. Always keep slight tension on the line by holding it between your thumb and forefinger. 
Note: Although the above technique is recommended by some line manufacturers, many people 
prefer to fill a spinning reel using the “pencil technique” described for conventional reels. 
It's important not to overfill or underfill a spool.  A conventional reel should be filled to the lip, 
and a spinning reel should be filled to within about 1⁄8inch of the edge.  After filling it's a good 
idea to wrap a rubber band around the spool and soak it in warm water for a few minutes to help 
take the spool memory out of the line. 
Knots 
You can't tie the types of knots in monofilament that you would in a rope or string — they'll slip 
and come apart.  Some commonly used monofilament knots are illustrated below.  In the instruc -
tions, tag end refers to the free end of the line, and standing line is the part of the line that's 
attached to the reel (or terminal tackle, if the line is a leader). 
When tying any kind of knot always start out with plenty of line.  It's easier to clip off excess line 
than it is to go back and start the knot over.  Before pulling a knot tight you need to make the line 
wet (adding saliva is easiest) so it slips properly. 
Tying line to tackle 
Improved Clinch Knot 
An excellent general purpose knot for lines up to about 20 pound test.  It has a knot strength of at 
least 95 percent, and is easy to learn. 
Knot illustrations and instructions courtesy of 
DuPont Fishing Products Group Courtesy of DuPont Fishing Products Group 
1. 2. 14 1. Pass line through eye of hook, swivel or lure.  Double back and make five turns around the 
standing line.  Hold coils in place; thread end of line around first loop above the eye, then through 
big loop as shown. 
2. Hold tag end and standing line while coils are pulled up.  Take care that coils are in spiral, not 
lapping over each other.  Slide tight against eye.  Clip tag end. 
Palomar Knot 
Used for tying hooks, lures and swivels to the end of a line.  It is generally not used for large 
plugs, and can't be used to tie a leader to a swivel on the mainline.  It is perhaps easier to tie than 
the improved clinch knot, and offers 100 percent knot strength. 
1. Double about four inches of line and pass loop through eye. 
2. Let hook hang loose and tie overhand knot in doubled line.  Avoid twisting the lines and don't 
tighten. 
3. Pull loop of line far enough to pass it over hook, swivel or lure.  Make sure loop passes com -
pletely over this attachment. 
4. Pull both tag end and standing line to tighten.  Clip tag end. 
Japan Knot 
Used for tying line to hooks, and can be used with light line on up to about 40 pound test.  It's a 
strong knot, and is a variation of the knot used on snelled hooks. 
Pass tag end through eye of hook from the point side.  Make a loop ("A") and wrap three or four 
times over line and shank of hook.  Pass tag end through loop “A” and pull tight, then pull stand -
ing end tight.  Trim tag end fairly close. 
1. 
2. 
3. 4. 15 Uni-Knot 
An easy knot for tying to terminal tackle; variations are described later for tying line to a spool and 
for tying two lines together. 
1. Run line through eye of hook, swivel or lure at least six inches and fold to make two parallel 
lines.  Bring end of line back in a circle toward hook or lure. 
2. Make six turns with tag end around the double line and through the circle.  Hold double line at 
point where it passes through eye and pull tag end to snug up turns. 
3. Now pull standing line to slide knot up against eye. 
4. Continue pulling until knot is tight.  Trim tag end flush with closest coil of knot. 
Tying line to line 
Surgeon's Knot 
Used to splice two lines of different diameters, such as when tying a leader directly to the main -
line.  It has about 95 percent knot strength. 
1. 2. 
3. 4. 
1. 2. 
3. 4. A
Japan knot 16 1. Lay line and leader parallel, overlapping six to eight inches. 
2. Treating the two like a single line, tie an overhand knot, pulling the entire leader through the 
loop. 
3. Leaving loop of the overhand open, pull both tag end of line and leader through again. 
4. Hold both lines and both ends to pull knot tight.  Clip ends close to avoid foul-up in rod guides. 
Blood Knot 
Used to splice two lines of the same diameter, like when repairing a mainline after removing a 
“birdnest.”  Its knot strength is about 95 percent. 
1. Lay ends of lines alongside each other, overlapping about six inches of line.  Hold lines at mid -
point; take five turns around standing line with tag end and bring end back between the two 
strands, where they are being held. 
2. Hold this part of the knot in position while the other tag end is wound around the standing line 
in the opposite direction and also brought back between the strands.  The two tag ends should pro -
trude from the knot in opposite directions. 
3. Pull up slowly on the two standing lines, taking care that the two ends do not back out of their 
positions; turns will gather into loops as they come together. 
4. Pull turns up as tightly as possible and clip ends close to the knot. 
Uni-Knot Splice 
Also used to splice two lines of the same diameter. 
1. 
2. 
3. 4. 
1. 2. 
3. 4. 
5. 17 1. Overlap ends of two lines for about six inches.  With one end, form Uni-Knot circle, crossing 
the two lines about midway of overlapped distance. 
2. Tie basic Uni-Knot, making six turns around the two lines. 
3. Pull tag end to snug knot tight around line. 
4. Use loose end of overlapped line to tie another Uni-Knot and snug up. 
5. Pull the two standing lines in opposite directions to slide knots together.  Pull as tight as possi -
ble and snip ends close to nearest coil. 
Tying loops in line 
Surgeon's End Loop Knot 
Provides a loop connection for attaching leaders or other terminal tackle. 
1. Double end of line to form loop and tie an overhand knot at the base of double line. 
2. Leave loop open in knot and bring doubled line through once more. 
3. Hold standing line and tag end and pull loop to tighten knot.  Size of loop can be determined by 
pulling loose knot to desired point and holding it while knot is tightened.  Clip tag end. 
Dropper Loop Knot 
Forms a loop at a right angle to the mainline or leader.  It can be used in place of a three-way 
swivel for attaching sinkers or other rigs away from the line.  It is not a particularly strong knot. 
1. 2. 
3. 
4. 1. 2. 3. 
5. 18 1. Form a loop in the line. 
2. Pull one side of the loop down and begin taking turns with it around the standing line.  Keep 
point where turns are made open so turns gather equally on each side. 
3. After eight to ten turns, reach through center opening and pull remaining loop through.  Keep 
finger in this loop so it will not spring back. 
4. Hold loop with teeth and pull both ends of line, making turns gather on either side of loop. 
5. Set knot by pulling lines as tightly as possible.  Tightening coils will make loop stand out per -
pendicular to line. 
Tying line to spool 
Uni-Knot 
1. Tie loop in end of line with Uni-Knot; only three turns are needed.  With bail of spinning reel 
open, slip loop over spool.  (With conventional reel, line must be passed around spool before tying 
the Uni-Knot.) 
2. Pull on line to tighten loop. 
It's hard to tie a good knot in monofilament over about 50 pound test.  The line isn't limp enough 
to make tight curves and you'll end up with spaces in the knot.  With large line you'll need to use 
crimped metal sleeves, as described later in the section on leaders. 
Hooks 
From Pfeiffer & Sosin, Aquatic Resources 
Education Curriculum, ©1987 American Fishing 
Tackle Manufacturers Association, reprinted by 
permission of Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co. Parts of a fish hook 1. 2. 19 Hooks are available in hundreds of shapes, sizes and materials.  Zinc coated hooks are best for salt 
water, and bronze hooks are popular for freshwater fishing.  A few of the more commonly used 
types are shown here. 
One reason there are so many types of hooks is because there is no single good all-around hook. 
Each design has its own advantages. 
Limerick — A good hook for small fish, often used with live bait. 
AH, MZ — Harder for fish to steal bait, or get off hook once set. 
Tankichi, BKN — Point is bent in so hook won't hang up on rocks; hook virtually sets itself, and 
fish can't get off. 
Tuna circle — Similar to BKN, used mostly for bottom fishing. 
Double, Treble (Star) — Used mostly for lures; more hooks increase chances fish will get caught. 
Bait holder — Barbs hold bait or plastic lure on shank. 
Bait hook — Used mostly for slow trolling; point extends outward for easier setting. 
Trolling — Large strong hooks for big fish, used with bait or lures. 
Hook size is given by a number — the bigger the number, the smaller the hook.  A no. 22 hook is 
very small.  A no. 2 hook is quite a bit bigger.  A no. 1 hook is not the biggest available - from 
there on hook sizes add a “ /0”.  The next size up from a no. 1 is a 1/0, then 2/0, 3/0, etc. on up to 
about 16/0.  Tankichi and BKN hooks have their own size numbering system - a bigger number 
means a larger hook. 
There is no uniform standard of hook measurement, which only adds to the confusion.  The size 
number itself doesn't really mean anything, and two hooks of different styles that look like they're 
the same size might not be.  It's pretty hard to tell a hook size just by looking at it until you get lots 
of practice. 
Choosing a hook depends on your target fish.  You can catch a big fish on a small hook, but you 
can't catch a small fish on a big hook.  So you'll probably want to use the smallest hook you can 
get away with.  A hook with a small diameter will penetrate easily, but pulling on it may cause the 
fish's mouth to “buttonhole” around the hook, increasing the chances of the hook coming out. 
Types of fish hooks 
Top row (l to r): Tuna circle, 
BKN. tankichi, Bait hook; 
Bottom row (l to r): MZ, 
Limerick, Bait holder, 
Double, Treble, Trolling 20 
A hook with a short shank is easier to hide inside the bait, but a long shank might be preferred if 
the fish has sharp teeth that could bite through the leader. 
The barb on a hook is designed to help keep the hook from backing out.  If you want to catch and 
release your fish, a barbless hook will make releasing easier and reduce the chances of harming the 
fish.  You can squeeze the barb flat with a pair of pliers. 
It's important to keep your hook as sharp as possible.  A dull hook is hard to set, but a sharp one 
penetrates easily.  Carry a hook file or sharpening stone in your tackle box, and keep checking the 
point of your hook when you're fishing, especially if you're getting hung up on coral, rocks or 
other hard objects.  With a hook file always move the file toward the point, and along the flat sur -
faces (if the hook is large enough to have them).  Small battery-operated hook sharpeners are 
available, and work pretty well. 
Hook sizes 
Courtesy of O. Mustad & Son (U.S.A.) Inc. 
Courtesy of O. Mustad & Son (U.S.A.) Inc. Triangular Sharpening 
Method for Large Hooks 21 
The difference between a lure and a bait is that a lure is artificial, while a bait is natural (either 
alive or formerly alive).  Lures are available in a large number of types, shapes and colors. 
A lure is only as good as the angler fishing with it.  Part of a lure's action (its motion in the water) 
comes from its design, but much of it is due to the way in which it's retrieved.  To be effective a 
lure must attract attention and behave like something the fish wants to eat.  But that's easier said 
than done.  With practice, and by watching good anglers work lures effectively, you can learn how 
to use a lure with good success. 
Selecting a lure is usually a matter of trial and error.  A lure that works great one day might not 
produce any strikes at all the next.  You'll want to change lure types and colors, and vary the action 
until you find the combination that works best.  So have an assortment of lures on hand.  Some 
basic types are shown below. 
Plugs are casting lures that resemble a small fish or other animal, and are made of wood, plastic or 
resin.  There are surface and subsurface plugs, medium-running and deep-running plugs.  Where a 
plug runs depends on its weight and shape.  Poppers (or surface chuggers) are light weight and 
have a concave face, so that they make a “popping” sound on the surface as they're retrieved, 
attracting the attention of fish.  Deeper running plugs are heavier, and have plastic or metal lips to 
make them dive as they're retrieved. Sharpening a 
small hook 
Plugs Lures and Baits 22 
Spoons are curved tapered metal lures shaped somewhat like a spoon, and resemble small fish.  As 
they are retrieved they wobble or flutter to attract attention. 
Jigs are lures with a weighted head (usually lead), a solid fixed hook and a body or tail made of 
plastic, hair, feathers or other material.  They are designed to bounce off the bottom with the hook 
upwards, minimizing the chances of a snag. 
Soft plastics are strips or worm-shaped lures made, obviously, of plastic.  (Other shapes, made to 
resemble frogs or eels, are used for freshwater fishing.)  They can be attached to a jighead, as men -
tioned above, or just put on a regular hook.  Soft plastics are available in a rainbow of colors. 
Some have glitter-like material inside, and some have phosphorescent additives which make them 
glow in the dark after being “charged” by a light.  Soft plastics are very popular for shoreline 
whipping. Spoons 
Jigs 
Soft plastics 23 
Spinners and spinnerbaits are used for freshwater fishing.  A spinner has a thin blade that revolves 
around a wire shaft to attract attention.  Spinnerbaits are used mostly for bass fishing, and are V- 
shaped with a body on one side and a blade on the other. 
Different types of lures and baits are used for fast and slow trolling, as described in the next chap -
ter.  The lures pictured above are used in open water fast trolling for fish like aku and ‘ahi, 
mahimahi, marlin, ono and others.  The trolling lure consists of a head made of metal and often 
resin, through which a line is passed and attached to a hook.  A plastic “skirt” surrounds the hook. 
The head may have additional channel openings to churn up water and attract attention. 
Baits 
As with lures, the type of bait you use will depend on your target fish.  A bait must reflect the 
fish's natural diet.  A fish that eats algae won't go after a crab.  Some baits commonly used for 
small fish include shrimp, crab, bread and limu (algae).  Larger fish go for octopus, eel, aku belly, 
‘ōpelu and akule.  In fresh water, earthworms and minnows are most commonly used. Spinners (top row) and 
Spinnerbaits (bottom row) 
Trolling lures 
Trolling heads (top) ;
assembled lure (bottom) 24 Other Tackle 
Swivels and Snap Swivels 
Swivels are used to connect your mainline to a leader.  Their main function is to prevent your 
mainline from twisting due to the action of your lure or bait.  A twisted mainline can cause some 
very disappointing tangles.  A number of types of swivels are available, and used for different pur -
poses.  The following  swivels are often used locally. 
Barrel swivel — The basic swivel type, used just to keep line from twisting. 
Ball bearing swivel — Similar to barrel swivel, but better built for smoother action. 
Snap swivel — Makes changing terminal tackle easier. 
Safety snap swivel — Decreases chances of snap coming open under stress. 
Hooking bait 
‘Opae (shrimp) Medaka (minnow) Aku belly 
Alive or dead Through back Through mouth Whipping - push hook 
through skin once Alive 
Dunking - push hook 
through skin twice 
Swivels 
Top row (l to r): Ball 
bearing safety snap, 
Barrel snap, Barrel 
safety snap, Pigtail, 
Coastlock; 
Bottom row: Barrel, 
Three-way 25 
Coastlock (French snap swivel) — Used mostly for trolling, especially with larger lines; less like -
ly to come apart under stress. 
Pigtail swivel — Used mostly for trolling; easy to change terminal tackle. 
Three-way swivel — Used mostly for dunking; allows two lines (leader and lead line) to be 
attached to mainline. 
Sinkers 
Sinkers are used to add weight to your tackle, whether for casting, dunking or just holding bait 
below the surface.  Some of the more commonly used types are described below. 
Split shot — Used with bamboo poles, and to keep leader submerged when using a floater. 
Egg sinker — Used mostly for whipping; doesn't twist line, but will scratch it over time. 
Torpedo (ring) sinker — Used mostly for whipping; goes through water fast, and should be used 
with a swivel. 
Spoon lead — Used for slow whipping or dunking;  goes down through water slowly so fish have 
more time to see bait. 
Walking sinker — Used when slow drifting; designed to be dragged along bottom without hanging 
up on rocks, keeps bait above bottom. 
Bank sinker — Used for dunking in rocky bottom areas. 
Wire bank sinker — Used for slide-bait fishing; wires get caught on rocks, and may bend straight 
when pulled hard enough. 
Pyramid sinker — Used for dunking in sandy bottom areas; digs under sand when set. 
Bottom fishing lead — Diamond shape helps lead go down through water faster. Sinkers 
Top row (l to r): Pyramid, 
Bottom fishing lead; 
Bottom row (l to r): Split 
shot, Egg, Spoon, Walking, 
Torpedo, Bank, Wire bank 26 
Floaters 
Floaters are made of wood or plastic, and are used mostly for bait fishing.  They are attached 
directly to the line and float on the surface, so the bait is held at a constant distance below the sur -
face.  Floaters also provide weight for casting.  The size of the floater should not be so small that 
it's pulled down by the weight of the bait and sinkers, but if it's too big it won't show much move -
ment when a fish grabs at the bait.  Some popular floater types are described below. 
Plastic bobber — Used mostly with bamboo or telescopic poles; easy to put on any part of line. 
Wooden egg floater — Multi-purpose floater that provides weight for casting, and has a popper 
side for whipping. 
Pencil floater — Used mostly for mullet and small fish; more sensitive, easier to detect small 
bites. 
Plastic bubble floater — Can be filled with water to vary weight; splashes to attract attention, but 
hard for fish to see. 
Lighted floater — For night fishing. 
Leaders 
Leaders are sections of line tied to the end of the mainline.  The size of the leader depends on the 
target fish.  You'll want to use a small diameter leader for the more finicky fish, since reducing the 
visibility of the leader often results in more strikes. 
For the cruising predatory fishes you'll probably want to use a leader that's at least as heavy as 
your mainline, especially if there's a good chance the fish will try to hide among rocks or coral 
when hooked.  In either case, it's good to make the leader as long as practical.  A good rule of 
thumb is to make it about as long as your rod.  If you're tying the leader directly to the mainline 
instead of using a swivel, you can make it quite a bit longer.  The leader is the part of your line 
that will take the most abuse, so it's a good idea to check it frequently for abrasions, and change it 
whenever necessary. 
Wire Leaders 
If you're after a fish with sharp teeth, such as kākū (barracuda) or ono, you'll need to use a wire 
leader.  Otherwise the fish will bite its way right through your line.  Cable wire, which consists of 
strands of wire twisted together, is generally used for this purpose.  Needless to say, you can't tie 
knots in wire leaders.  They are attached to the mainline with an endloop that is secured by a 
crimped metal sleeve. Floaters 
Top row (l to r): Plastic 
bobber, Wooden egg, 
Bubble, Lighted 
Bottom: Pencil 27 
One special type of leader assembly is the slide-bait rig, consisting of a slide buckle at one end and 
a hook at the other.  The leader is usually made of wire, but heavy monofilament may be used. 
The entire rig is slid down the mainline, as described in the next chapter. 
Other Boat Angling Equipment 
Downriggers 
A downrigger is used to take a lure or bait down to a specific depth, especially for bottomfishing. 
When a fish strikes, the line is pulled away from the weight of the rig, and the angler can play and 
reel in the fish.  The downrigger is then pulled in separately.  Downriggers are used for catching 
fish like kāhala, ulua, pāpio, ‘ahi, marlin, mahi and ono. A slide-bait rig 
Crimping pliers, wire 
leader spool, sleeves, 
and completed rig 
Parts of a downrigger Use of a downrigger 
Attach fishing line to weight. 
Lower to desired depth. 
Fish strikes; line releases 
from weight. 
Fight and boat fish; return 
weight to bottom. 
Courtesy of Penn Fishing Tackle Mfg. Co. 28 Outriggers 
Outriggers are devices used to get fishing lines out away from a boat.  There are a couple of 
advantages to using outriggers.  First, they give you room to get more lines in the water.  Second, 
outriggers change the way bait is presented (for example, by keeping the line out of the water and 
the bait on the surface).  A line known as a stinger is attached to a cleat on the boat, extends to the 
end of the outrigger and is attached (by a rubber band or clip) to the mainline of a trolling rod and 
reel.  When a fish strikes, the mainline is pulled away from the stinger, and the fight is on. 
A tackle box is a must for keeping your tackle organized.  In general you should use the smallest 
tackle box you can get away with, just big enough to carry what you need for an average fishing 
expedition.  As you accumulate more tackle, you'll probably want to get another bigger tackle box 
for storage purposes, but continue to use the small one for fishing trips.  Carrying around a big 
heavy tackle box can get exhausting, and is unnecessary if you'll only end up using a fraction of 
what's inside.  So plan your fishing trip well, and take along only what you need. Other Tackle 
A tackle box 
and contents Using an outrigger 
Outrigger Stinger 
Mainline 
Rod 
For clarity, only one rod 
and outrigger are shown. 29 You won't see too many metal tackle boxes in Hawai‘i, since saltwater will take a quick toll on 
them.  Get a plastic box with one or two trays, and make sure the lid overlaps the bottom so water 
doesn't run inside.  Also get a small plastic box (with compartments) that will fit inside the bottom 
of your tackle box.  The small box will be used for storing hooks and swivels.  Put in whatever 
sizes you'll need for that day's fishing. 
A well stocked tackle box should include a pair of fishing pliers, nail clippers (for cutting line), 
a hook sharpener, knife (for cutting bait), spools of line of several appropriate sizes, floats and 
sinkers (whatever type might be needed that day), and various types of lures.  It's also a good idea 
to include a spare bail spring and whatever screwdrivers or wrenches you would need if your reel 
breaks down.  Finally, to make sure you're prepared for just about anything, stash a few quarters in 
your tackle box for emergency phone calls. 30 FISHING METHODS AND TECHNIQUES 
Angling Methods In this chapter we'll give a brief overview of ways to catch fish in Hawai‘i.  When it comes to 
technique, there is no substitute for experience.  Fishing is a learned skill — you learn from your 
mistakes and your successes, but mostly from other fishermen who know what they're doing.  In 
addition, there are some excellent books and periodicals available which describe in detail methods 
and techniques for catching Hawai‘i's gamefish.  These references are listed at the end of this 
book. 
No matter what fishing methods you use, it's important that you fish legally.  There are regulations 
on seasons, minimum sizes, bag limits, mesh sizes for nets of all types, gear restrictions for some 
species and for certain areas, and other regulations, all designed to help protect fish populations 
and other aquatic life.  The reasoning behind these regulations is discussed in a later chapter.  One 
important piece of “fishing gear” you should always have handy is a current copy of the Hawai‘i 
Fishing Regulations booklet. 
Whipping 
Whipping is done almost exclusively with spinning reels, and involves repeatedly casting a lure or 
bait into the water and retrieving it.  Whipping is done from shore or a boat.  A basic whipping rig 
would include a leader that's as long as practical attached to the mainline by a snap swivel, and a 
soft plastic or popper at the other end.  A sinker may be added at or above the swivel to provide 
weight for casting. 
As always, the size of the mainline, leader, lure or bait and hook will depend on what you're trying 
to catch.  When whipping shallow water a floater is often attached to the swivel (no sinkers are 
used) to avoid snagging the bottom.  Adding a floater to a whipping rig also helps attract attention 
by popping in the water ahead of the lure.  Whipping is effective for predatory fishes like pāpio, 
āholehole, lai and kākū. 
Whipping rigs (for reef fish) 
8-lb test 
mainline Egg sinker 
(weight depends 
on rod) Swivel 6-lb test leader, 
at least as long as rod 
Wooden egg 
floater No. 8 hook Soft plastic 31 
Floating 
Floating involves suspending a bait a certain dis -
tance below the surface.  A floater is attached to the 
mainline, usually by a snap swivel, and a leader of 
the desired length is attached to the swivel or 
floater.  A split shot may be added to keep the bait 
down.  The split shot would be omitted if you want 
the bait to stay at the surface (like bread).  In this 
case the floater serves mostly to add weight for cast -
ing.  You should remove as much slack from the 
line as possible so you can set the hook more easily. 
Floating is effective with various reef fishes. 
Dunking 
Dunking involves putting a bait on or near the bot -
tom.  Typically, two lines are attached to the main -
line.  One line, the leader, is fastened to the hook 
and bait.  The other, the anchorline, is attached to a 
lead sinker.  The anchorline is usually longer than 
the leader, and has less line strength.  The rig is cast 
out, then slowly reeled in until the sinker catches on 
something.  Because the leader is shorter than the 
anchorline, the baited hook is suspended just above 
the bottom.  The line must be kept tight with no 
slack.  When a fish strikes and you pull to set the 
hook, the anchorline will break or pull free and you 
proceed to fight the fish. 
If you just want to lay the bait on the bottom you can get by with the type of rig described above 
for whipping, with just a sinker above the swivel and a baited hook at the end of a leader.  Dunking 
works well for bottom feeding fishes such as goatfish, ‘ō‘io and ta‘ape. 
Slide-bait Fishing 
Slide-bait fishing might be considered a special type of dunking.  It is done from cliffs using large 
surfcasting reels and long rods.  A line is cast out with a lead weight on an anchorline.  Between 
the anchorline and the mainline is a stop ring assembly.  Once the lead is anchored to the bottom, a 
rig with a sliding swivel and baited hook is slid down the mainline until it gets to the stop ring. Floating rig (for reef fish) 
Dunking rig (for reef fish) 4 to 6-lb test, 
to desired depth 
Bank sinker, weight 
depends on rod 8-lb test 
Swivel 
Wooden egg floater 
Split shot 
No. 10 limerick hook 
Bait 
8 to 10-lb test, 3 feet 
No. 8 hook Bait 
6-lb test, as long as rod Three-way swivel 10 to 15-lb test 32 You want the bait suspended high enough above the bottom so moray eels aren't immediately 
attracted to it.  An anchorline of about ten feet usually does the trick.  When a fish strikes, pulling 
on the rod sets the hook and breaks the anchorline.  Slide-bait fishing is the most popular method 
for catching ulua. 
Trolling 
Trolling involves trailing a lure or bait behind a moving boat.  The bait or lure may be run straight 
off a rod and reel, or a downrigger or outrigger may be used as described in the previous chapter. 
Trolling is done inshore for fish like pāpio; deepsea trolling targets fish like marlin, ‘ahi, ono and 
mahi.  Inshore trolling is done slowly, using bait such as ika strips and aku belly, or surface pop -
pers and other small lures.  Deep sea trolling is done at higher speeds with heavier tackle.  Trolling 
heads with squid skirts are used as lures, or fish may be used as bait. 
Bottom Fishing 
Bottom fishing is done in shallow water for species like goatfish 
or pāpio, or in deep water for kāhala or ‘ōpakapaka and other 
deepwater snappers.  The basic rig consists of a main leader 
with several hook leaders (or branch lines ) and a lead line 
attached.  The branch lines may be attached with three-way 
swivels or tied to loops in the main leader.  The mainline may 
be a handline or on a reel, and should be stronger than the 
branch and lead lines. 
Jigging 
Jigging is an angling technique that involves retrieving a lure in 
short hops to simulate the motion of natural bait.  The lure is 
cast or lowered into the water and allowed to sink to some 
desired depth.  The erratic motion of the retrieve attracts fish. 
Since the term “jigging” refers to the retrieve, the technique can 
be used in combination with different angling methods.  Jigging 
with handline or rod and reel is popular (and effective) when 
fishing the FAD buoys.  Deep-water jigging is used for catching 
bottom fish.  Trollers also jig to vary the speed of the lure. 
Slide-bait rig 
Bottom fishing rig Swivel Pigtail 
Slide buckle rig BKN hook Wire leader Stop ring Anchorline 
Wire bank sinker 
Swivel 
Main leader 
Dropper loop 
Branch line 
Jig 
Swivel 
Lead line 
Lead 33 Handline Fishing 
Handlining refers more to a type of gear than a method of angling.  Handlines are used from boats; 
a line is wrapped around a rack or stored in a box or other container.  (Even when the line is stored 
on an electric reel the gear is referred to as “handline.”)  The end of the line is rigged with a series 
of hooks or jigs.  Either bait or lures may be used on the hooks.  The way the gear is rigged 
(including the number of hooks used) depends on the target fish. 
Chumming 
Chum is a substance thrown into the water to attract fish.  Usually it consists of chopped or ground 
up fish, something that resembles your target fish's natural diet.  Dough or bread may be added to 
give the chum a more desireable consistency. 
Chumming is used to bring fish around to your hook.  If fish are not seen, or don't seem to be bit -
ing, chumming often makes a big difference.  However, there's a line between chumming and feed -
ing.  Throwing in too much chum may cause the fish to lose interest in your bait. 
Presentation and Retrieval 
In order to get a fish interested in your lure or bait, it must be presented right.  The lure or bait 
should appear as natural as possible.  For example, when using bread as bait it's a good idea to 
leave some fluff in it so it floats on the surface.  You'll also want to hide the hook as much as pos -
sible, but the point shouldn't be so well covered that it's difficult to set.  If a fish senses anything 
unnatural about the way a lure or bait is presented it will probably not bite. 
When retrieving a bait do it slowly enough so fish have a chance to check it out.  Let the bait 
move or drift naturally so it looks like an easy meal.  With a lure you want to retrieve faster so the 
fish has to take a strike at it.  If you give a fish time to investigate your lure too closely it won't 
take long for the fish to realize something's wrong. 
Action is an important part of lure retrieval.  The lure must behave like prey, preferably wounded 
prey.  Giving the lure some erratic movement will attract attention.  As mentioned earlier, if you 
aren't getting strikes vary the action.  Or try a different color or type of lure.  If fish are around, 
you'll eventually find a combination that works. Basic Angling Techniques A handline 34 In a way, how you approach fish can be considered part of presentation.  If you're on the shore- 
line, keep a low profile and try not to do anything that would attract a fish's attention to you (they 
can see out of the water well enough to know you're there).  In a boat, avoid dragging tackle boxes 
along the hull, stomping your feet or doing other things that would transmit noise through the hull 
and into the water. 
Setting the Hook 
How a fish strikes depends on its feeding style.  Some fish are nibblers and some are chompers. 
With practice you'll learn how different fish behave around a hook.  Once you think your hook is 
inside a fish's mouth you must set it by pulling back on the rod to force the hook into the fish's 
jaw.  Timing is everything - if you pull too soon the hook will just be pulled away from the fish; 
wait too long and your bait may be history.  If the fish has a soft mouth (such as ‘ōpelu) you can't 
pull too hard or you'll tear the hook out through its mouth. 
Fighting the Fish 
Once the hook is set your fish will run, and that's when the fun starts.  Your drag should be set 
loose enough so the fish can run, but tight enough to keep tension on the line.  The drag tension 
will eventually tire the fish out.  Keep your rod tip slightly up while the fish runs, and as it slows 
down reel it in.  Pull the fish toward you by pulling your rod back, then reel as you lower it again. 
Bringing the fish in involves pumping the rod in this manner, keeping tension on the line at all 
times.  If the fish runs toward you (as ‘ō‘io often do) reel in line as fast as possible.  Slack line 
always increases the chances of the hook coming out. 
Landing the Fish 
How you get the fish out of the water depends on its size and your line strength.  Small fish can 
just be pulled out with your line.  Larger fish should be led headfirst into a landing net.  Really big 
fish will need to be gaffed.  If you're landing a fish (especially a big fish) in surf, make use of the 
incoming surge to help you get the fish as close to shore as possible.  If you can't land the fish on 
the first try, wait for the next wave. 
35 What Next? 
By the time you bring a fish in you should have made plans about what to do with it.  If you intend 
to eat it, remove the hook and put the fish on ice as quickly as possible.  (Cleaning fish is 
described at the end of this chapter.)  Keep only fish that you need, and that are of legal size.  If 
the fish is undersized, or you don't want to eat it, let it go — carefully. 
To release a fish, keep it in the water as much as possible and handle it gently.  Remove the hook 
quickly with pliers; if the fish has swallowed the hook cut the line — the hook will eventually be 
dissolved by the fish's digestive juices.  If the fish is unconscious hold it upright in the water and 
move it back and forth to force water over its gills.  Don't hold the fish by its eye sockets, since 
blindness or death may result.  Releasing fish carefully will allow the fish to grow, reproduce and 
live to fight again. 
Spear Fishing 
Several types of spears are used for fishing in Hawai‘i.  The most popular is the “Hawaiian sling,” 
which consists of a fiberglass, aluminum or graphite composite shaft with a three-pronged spear at 
one end and a loop of surgical tubing at the other.  The tubing is used to propel the spear.  Spear 
guns, including arbaletes (rubber powered) and pneumatics (air propelled), are more powerful and 
effective with fast moving fish. 
The advantage of spear fishing is that you can see the fish.  Once the fish is speared it is generally 
put on a stringer and towed a comfortable (and safe) distance behind the fisherman.  Fish targeted 
by spear fishers include manini and other surgeonfish, uhu, goatfish and menpachi.  Advanced 
spear fishers will target ulua and large blue water fishes. 
Throw Nets 
Throw nets are circular nets with lead weights around the edge.  They are thrown over and around 
a school of fish.  The fisherman then gathers up the bottom of the net to trap the fish (some throw 
nets have a drawstring to pull the bottom shut).  Learning to throw a net takes a great deal of prac -
tice.  Throw nets are used for inshore schooling fishes such as moi, kala, manini, ‘ama‘ama and 
uouoa. Other Fishing Methods 
Spears (top to bottom): 
“Hawaiian sling,” 
arbalete, pneumatic 36 Gill Nets 
Also known as lay nets , gill nets are designed to snare fish by their gills.  Gill nets are usually 
about four to six feet high with floats on the upper edge and lead weights on the lower.  They may 
be a hundred or more feet long, and are generally set perpendicular to shore in the late afternoon or 
evening, often in reef channel areas, then pulled in the next morning.  Fish commonly targeted by 
gill net fishers include moi, mullet, ‘omaka, weke and pāpio.  From a conservation point of view, a 
disadvantage of using gill nets is that they are not selective in the fish they catch.  Fish are often 
caught that the fisherman doesn't want, and are essentially just wasted. 
Torch Fishing 
This type of fishing is done on the reef on calm dark nights at low tide.  Carrying a lantern, flash -
light or other light source, the fisherman walks along the reef looking for fish or octopus, which 
are taken by spear or with scoop nets, or sometimes with a small throw net.  Target species include 
lobster and fish that “sleep” at night, such as goatfish, uhu and some surgeonfish.  (Lobster cannot 
be speared, and nets have to be of legal mesh size.) 
Use of a thrownet 
Fish caught in a gill net 
37 Cleaning a Fish 
There are probably as many ways to clean a fish as there are fishermen.  Everybody has his/her 
own technique.  Following the steps outlined below will give you a fish ready to cook.  But as 
with everything else in fishing, you learn the most by watching people who know what they're 
doing, then practicing until you get it right.  Filleting and cleaning large fish are not described in 
this book, but those procedures are described in other local books on fishing (see references on 
inside back cover). 
Cleaning a fish (below): 1) Scale the fish, being careful not to cut the skin; 2) With a sharp knife, make a 
cut from the vent (anus) to the jaw; 3) Cut through the gill region as necessary to remove the gills; 4) Take 
out the gills and internal organs; 5) Scrape away the kidney (dark area along backbone), and remove any 
other tissues remaining in the body cavity; 6) The cleaned fish. 
38 
Another way to clean a fish is to butterfly it, which involves slicing the fish down the middle and 
opening it up.  Butterflying is done with smaller fishes (akule, ta‘ape, weke, etc.) when you want 
to dry and salt the fish. 
To butterfly a fish (below): 1) Scale the fish (if scales are small use the edge of a knife), remove scutes if 
present; 2) Beginning near the tail, make a cut through the back of the fish as deep as the backbone; 3) Con- 
tinue the cut to the anterior end of the fish, cutting through the bones of the skull; 4) Place the blade along 
one side of the backbone and continue the cut through the rest of the fish; 5) Remove the internal organs and 
clean out any remaining tissue; 6) The finished product. 39 FISHING SAFETY 
Fishing is one of the safest outdoor sports, but the fishing environment has its share of hazards. 
Sun, surf, dropoffs, weather, marine life, fish hooks and other factors need to be considered at 
all times.  By using common sense you can avoid accidents and keep the fun in fishing. 
Dealing With the Sun 
Shoreline Safety Whether fishing from shore or a boat, you'll risk sunburn even on cloudy days.  To reduce the risk 
you need to dress properly.  Wearing a baseball cap will keep the sun off your nose and face. 
Although you may want to work on a stunning tan, you should keep a shirt on especially during 
the peak sun hours.  Use a sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 15. 
Polarized sunglasses that filter out ultraviolet (UV) radiation are a great idea for several reasons — 
the UV filtering will protect your eyes from sun damage, the polarization will help you see through 
the water's surface to make fish more visible, and the protection of having something in front of 
your eyes will keep them safe from flying hooks and other objects. 
Before fishing from the shoreline or a boat you should check the current weather conditions and 
forecast, and consult a tide calendar so you know what the water level will be doing.  Be sure to 
take into consideration the time adjustments for the tide at the area you'll be fishing — all tide cal -
endars have a table with that information. 
The well-dressed angler 
Cap 
Sunglasses 
Shirt 
Tabis 
Sunscreen 40 Boating Safety 
A boat gives you access to many more fishing areas than the shoreline.  Operating a boat, though, 
is at least as complicated as driving a car, with the additional problem of having the “road” always 
moving under you.  When you fish from a boat you have some added safety concerns.  One good 
way to prepare for boat fishing is to take a free U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Skills and 
Seamanship course. 
If you're fishing from a rocky shoreline or walking around on the reef be sure to wear the right 
kind of footwear.  Tabis are an excellent choice — they're inexpensive and provide good protection 
from slipping on wet rocks and against fairly sharp objects on the reef.  Old sneakers would be a 
good second choice, but slippers (zoris) should not be worn because they come off too easily. 
Check the rocks for wet areas to give you an idea of where the waves are hitting, and stay away 
from places where you might get pounded by waves.  Also look for wet areas from freshwater 
runoff; these places will often have algae growing which makes the rocks extremely slippery. 
It's a good idea to watch the waves for about fifteen minutes or so to get a feel for the wave action. 
Waves come in sets, and although there may be small waves when you arrive at the scene, a big set 
may come in a few minutes later.  Be aware that surf conditions can change quickly, and that 
waves generally increase in size as the tide comes in. 
Perhaps the most important thing to remember when doing anything at the water's edge is never 
turn your back on the waves.  It's interesting to note that the most deadly marine animal is the 
lowly ‘opihi — more people have drowned picking ‘opihi than have died at the “hands” of any 
other sea creature, simply because they weren't careful about the waves. 
Always try to fish with a friend.  When fishing from a rocky shoreline it's good to take along a yel -
low floating rope about fifty feet long.  If your fishing buddy happens to end up in the water for 
any reason you can throw the rope out to him (or her).  Tossing out an empty cooler is another 
possibility — it will provide some flotation until the person can get back to shore. 
If you end up in the water you need to be aware of currents, especially rip currents that move 
water out to sea.  Never try to swim against a rip current (nobody can swim faster than a current), 
but instead swim parallel to shore until you're out of the current, and then swim back in.   If you 
can't swim you should learn how before you spend much time near the ocean. 
Rip current 41 Weather 
Before going out on any boating trip, the first thing you should do is check the current weather 
conditions and forecast, including wind and sea information.  The National Weather Service has a 
phone number for recorded forecasts (see your white pages in the U.S. Government section).  You 
can also keep up with weather conditions by listening to the continuous NOAA Weather Radio 
broadcasts at frequencies of 162.55 MHz or 162.40 MHz.  While out on the water check these 
broadcasts often. 
Getting caught in a storm is one of the worst things that can happen to you out on the water, which 
is why it's so important to be aware of weather conditions.  At the first sign of foul weather, put on 
life preservers and head for shore immediately. 
If you can't get off the water before a storm hits, slow your boat down, turn it at about a 45 degree 
angle to the seas and ride over the waves.  Don't point the boat away from the seas, since waves 
can come crashing over the transom, especially if you lose power.  If the water is shallow enough, 
anchor the boat with a long rope and heavy anchor.  If you lose power, it's best to get your bow 
into the wind by tying on a sea anchor or anything that floats and causes drag. 
The Float Plan 
It's good practice to file a float plan for any boat trip, much like a flight plan for an airplane.  The 
float plan is just a common sense list of information you give to someone who will take action if 
you are overdue from a fishing trip.  A float plan could save your life because someone on shore 
knows the description of your boat, the people aboard, your course on the water, destination and 
estimated return time.  The float plan, which can be verbal but is better written, can be left with a 
family member or friend with instructions to notify authorities if necessary.  A sample float plan is 
shown below. 
Courtesy of the National Safe Boating Council 
42 Boat Gear 
There are minimum boating safety gear requirements under Federal and State laws.  Good sources 
of information are the free Coast Guard brochure “Federal Requirements for Recreational Boats” 
and the State of Hawai‘i Harbors Division's “What Everyone Should Know About Boating Safety.” 
Here is a checklist of basic boating safety gear: 
❒Personal Flotation Devices* ❒Fire Extinguisher* 
❒Distress Flares* ❒Whistle or Horn* 
❒Compass and Nautical Charts ❒Paddles or Oars 
❒First Aid Kit ❒Anchor and Anchor Line 
❒Bilge Pump ❒Extra Line 
❒Radio ❒Flashlight 
❒Basic Tool Kit ❒Flame Arrestor 
(required for inboard engines) 
*Required by Federal Law 
The above list is a minimum for safety gear.  You will probably add more gear to make your fish -
ing trip safe, comfortable and enjoyable. 
Fire Prevention 
Fire at sea is a boater's nightmare.  If your boat catches fire you will have to handle it yourself. 
Practice fire procedures, and let new people on the boat know where firefighting gear is located. 
Most boat fires are caused by improper fueling practices, but many others are the result of electri -
cal short circuits in faulty wiring.  Here are some boating fire prevention tips: 
•Use fireproof materials for interior decorating. 
•Keep bilges free of oil, gasoline and rags. 
•Carry gasoline for outboard boats in acceptable safety containers only, and never store 
below deck. 
•Use approved alcohol or kerosene in pressure stoves for cooking.  Never use gasoline 
or gravity-fed stoves. 
•Carry approved fire extinguishers and check them frequently. 
•Never fuel at night except under well-lighted conditions. 
•Patronize safety-conscious fueling stations. 
•Remove portable fuel tanks from boat for refueling.  Permanently installed tanks 
should be fueled only after shutting down all engines, fans and motors, and closing all 
hatches and doors.  Ventilate after fueling and before starting the engine. 
Rules of the Road 
There are some basic “rules of the road” on the water, developed over the years through common 
sense and courtesy.  For example, the boat on your right usually has the right-of-way, and you 
must take action to avoid the other vessel.  If you are overtaking another boat it is your responsi -
bility to watch out for that boat.  In addition to knowing the rules of the road, you should be famil -
iar with aids to navigation (buoys, lights and shapes).  You can get more information from the free 
Coast Guard and Harbors Division publications mentioned earlier, and through a Coast Guard 
Boating Safety class. 43 Getting Help 
If you find yourself in a situation where you need help, Channel 16 VHF/FM and 2182 khz 
HF/SSB are emergency distress frequencies monitored constantly by the Coast Guard.  Use one of 
these to send a “Mayday” distress call.  If you don't have a radio, try to get the attention of some -
one else on the water (or shore, or in an airplane) by using flares or other signaling devices. 
Fishing While Boating - Some Tips 
•Don't overload your boat - look for the manufacturer's “Capacity Plate” for the 
maximum load. 
•Board carefully - small boats capsize easily. 
•Stow gear so the boat is in trim (floats level). 
•Fish outside boat channels or swimming areas. 
•Trolling boats need to be careful of traffic and boats ahead. 
•Be careful of weight shifts when fighting and landing fish. 
•Watch hooks, knives and sharp objects — store them properly. 
Before you “cast off” for boating and fishing:  know how to swim, take a boating course, keep 
your boat well-equipped and in good shape, follow nautical aids to navigation and rules of the 
road, and know what to do in an emergency. 
Courtesy of O. Mustad & Son (U.S.A.) Inc. Hook Removal 
Chances are that sooner or later you or somebody you're fishing with will get hooked by a fish 
hook.  If a hook is seriously impaled you should see a physician immediately.  But if the accidental 
hook-up isn't too bad you can remove the hook using one of two methods. 
For hooks impaled in loose skin loop a 20 or 30 pound test line around the bend of the hook and 
grip firmly.  Press down on the head of the hook with the thumb of your opposite hand, and pull 
the hook out.  (See diagrams below.) 
If the hook is impaled in tight skin you'll need to push the point through in a natural curve until the 
barb emerges (the worst is over at that point).  Cut the hook at the bend and slide the barbless 
shank back through the wound.  (See diagrams on the next page.) 
44 Fish Poisoning 
Courtesy of O. Mustad & Son (U.S.A.) Inc. 
After the wound has bled freely for a few minutes wash it and cover with a bandage.  When you 
return home soak the wound in an antiseptic solution and put on a fresh bandage.  Get a tetanus 
shot if you haven't been keeping them up to date. 
It's smart to take a first aid kit along with you when you fish, just in case.  You should also take a 
first aid class so you're better prepared not just for fishing emergencies, but situations in general. 
A first aid kit should include at least the following items: 
❒First aid handbook ❒Bandaids (6 to 12) 
❒Sterile bandage (4 x 4 inches) ❒Roll of gauze bandages (1 inch) 
❒Adhesive tape ( 1⁄2inch x 5 yards) ❒Petroleum jelly 
❒Antiseptic ❒Razor blade 
❒Small scissors ❒Tweezers 
❒Small mirror ❒Aspirin 
❒Alcohol wipes ❒Vinegar 
❒Meat tenderizer 
If you plan to eat fish that you've caught, you should be aware of the possibility of fish poisoning, 
which can result from eating spoiled fish or fish that contain toxic substances.  There are several 
types of fish poisoning that occur to some extent in Hawai‘i. 
Ciguatera poisoning is caused by microscopic marine organisms ( dinoflagellates ) that grow on the 
surface of marine algae.  The algae is eaten by herbivorous fish and the toxin produced by the 
dinoflagellates accumulates in the fish.  As other fish higher in the food chain prey on these herbi -
vores, the toxin accumulates in them as well.  In fact, these predatory fishes may become even 
more toxic because the toxin isn't removed from their bodies.  Fish such as ulua, kāhala, kole and 
po‘ou have been most frequently implicated in ciguatera poisoning, but other reef fish have also 
been found to be toxic.  Open water fishes such as aku, ‘ahi, mahimahi and marlin have not been 
implicated in ciguatera poisoning. 
There is no way to tell from a fish's appearance, smell or taste if it is toxic.  The toxin is not 
removed by cooking, drying, freezing or salting the fish.  Although lab tests can determine whether 
ciguatoxin is present in a fish, these tests are not generally available to the public.  A simple testing 
procedure for home use may not be available for some time.  To minimize the risk of being poi -
soned, never eat the eggs, liver or guts of any reef fish.  The toxin becomes concentrated up to 100 
times more in these parts of the fish.  You might also call the State Department of Health's 
Epidemiology Branch to find out if there have been reports of ciguatera poisoning from fish caught 
in the area you're fishing. 
Common symptoms of ciguatera poisoning vary greatly from one person to the next, but may 
include general weakness, diarrhea, muscle pain, joint aches, numbness and tingling around the 45 Dangerous Marine Organisms mouth, hands and feet, reversal of temperature sensation (hot objects feel cold and cold objects 
feel hot), nausea, vomiting, chills, itching, headache, sweating and dizziness.  Temperature reversal 
usually doesn't develop until two to five days after eating toxic fish.  Illness may last for weeks or 
months. 
Scombroid poisoning results from eating spoiled fish, such as tuna, mahimahi and related species, 
which were not properly refrigerated while at sea.  The disease is caused by an overgrowth of bac -
teria which produce toxic substances.  The fish may or may not have a foul odor, but a metallic or 
peppery taste may be present. 
Symptoms of scombroid poisoning usually appear within an hour after eating a spoiled fish, and 
may include flushing of the face and perhaps the upper body, severe throbbing headache, heart pal -
pitations, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, burning sensation in the throat, dryness of the mouth, diffi -
culty in swallowing and/or breathing, nausea and weakness.  Symptoms usually last up to twelve 
hours.  Treatment with antihistamines is usually effective. 
Hallucinogenic fish poisoning may occur from eating mullet, various goatfishes, nenue and mani -
ni.  It is seasonal, usually occurring in the summer months.  Hallucinations, insomnia, intense 
dreaming, weakness, dizziness, general malaise, itching and burning of the throat and other symp -
toms are common, and come on soon after the fish is eaten.  Terrifying nightmares may occur 
when the onset of symptoms happens while asleep.  Constrictive chest pains may also occur.  This 
type of fish poisoning is much less common than ciguatera or scombroid poisoning. 
Puffer fish poisoning may result from eating puffers, blowfish, balloon fish and other related 
species.  Many species of puffer fish contain tetrodotoxin , which is a very potent toxin.  Onset of 
symptoms occurs within minutes and may include sweating and tingling of the lips, tongue and 
fingertips, followed by numbness that spreads throughout the body.  Other symptoms include 
extreme weakness, nausea, vomiting, headache and profuse sweating.  In severe cases muscular 
paralysis may occur, followed by death.  The most common puffer fish has been implicated in at 
least seven deaths in Hawai‘i. 
If you suspect fish poisoning: 
•Call your physician immediately for treatment.  If your physician in not available, call 
the Hawai‘i Poison Center.  A physician's care is needed to remove unabsorbed toxins 
from the digestive tract, and to treat symptoms of the illness. 
•Do not take any drug or medication without your physician's advice. 
•Do not eat any remaining fish that may be toxic. 
•Save the remainder of the fish (including the head and guts) in your refrigerator or 
freezer to be given later to the Department of Health.  The department can assist in 
arranging for laboratory confirmation of suspected fish poisoning. 
•Call the Department of Health to report a case of suspected fish poisoning. 
Most animals and some plants have natural defense mechanisms, and they will probably try to 
defend themselves against you.  If you're not sure what an animal is or what it might do to you, it's 
best to just leave it alone. 
The following pages describe some dangerous marine organisms and provide information on 
symptoms, injuries, treatment and prevention.  The information on treatment has been reviewed by 
medical authorities, but it's still a good idea to consult a physician or nurse for their recommenda -
tions. ORGANISM CAUSE OF 
INJURY SYMPTOMS / 
INJURY TREATMENT PREVENTION 
Coral 
 Sharp edges, 
stinging cells Abrasions, irritation, 
torn skin, bleeding; 
possible infection 
(coral will not grow 
inside a cut) Soak irritated areas in 
dilute vinegar solu -
tion; clean cuts with 
rubbing alcohol, 
hydrogen peroxide, or 
soap and water, apply 
antiseptic; 
if cut is deep see a 
physician Wear tabis or sneak -
ers when reef walk -
ing; wear gloves 
when handling coral; 
avoid shallow rough 
waters 
46 Portuguese 
Man-O-War 
Jellyfish 
Sea anemone 
Hydroids 
Sponges Stinging cells in 
tentacles Stinging, burning sen -
sations; severe reac -
tions include irregular 
breathing and heart -
beat Remove tentacles 
from skin; apply full 
strength vinegar, or 
paste of vinegar and 
meat tenderizer (don't 
use meat tenderizer if 
victim is allergic to 
papaya); 
if reaction is severe 
get emergency help 
immediately Avoid water where 
sighted (usually blown 
in from open ocean); 
avoid walking near 
washed up Man-O- 
War on beach 
Stinging cells in 
tentacles Same as Portuguese 
Man-O-War Same as Portuguese 
Man-O-War Avoid areas where 
sighted; avoid han -
dling jellyfish 
Stinging cells in 
tentacles Itching and burning, 
prickly sensation to 
severe pain; severe 
reactions may include 
shortness of breath; 
not all species will 
produce a noticeable 
reaction Same as Portuguese 
Man-O-War Wear tabis and 
gloves; avoid contact 
with skin; don't put 
hands or fingers into 
holes or crevices 
Stinging cells Itching, burning, rash 
that may last up to 
sev-eral days; severe 
allergic reaction in 
some people Same as Portuguese 
Man-O-War Avoid brushing 
against or grabbing 
underside of floats, 
pilings, boat bottoms, 
submerged lines and 
other areas to which 
hydroids may be 
attached 
Spicules — support -
ing structures within 
sponge which can 
lodge under skin if 
handled; fire sponge 
produces irritating 
chemical Burning or itching; fire 
sponge may cause 
small blisters Same as coral Wear gloves; avoid 
handling sponges 
ORGANISM CAUSE OF 
INJURY SYMPTOMS / 
INJURY TREATMENT PREVENTION 
Fireworm 
 Sharp bristles which 
contain toxin Burning, itching, 
stinging, swelling, 
inflammation Vinegar, or treatment 
for coral; bristles may 
sometimes be re- 
moved with adhesive 
tape Wear gloves; use 
care turning over 
rocks 
47 Surgeonfish Crab Octopus (“squid”) Cone shell Sea urchin Long brittle spines, 
some of which are 
venomous on certain 
species Throbbing pain, punc -
ture wounds; possible 
infection Soak in hot water 
until pain goes away, 
apply undiluted vine -
gar; see a physician 
for removal of long 
embedded spines Wear tabis with thick 
soles; don't put hands 
into crevices; avoid 
handling sea urchins 
Venomous dart-like 
structure at narrow 
end of shell, used to 
paralyze prey Mild to severe pain, 
burning, numbness, 
vomiting; stings by 
the most toxic 
species may cause 
paralysis, respiratory 
failure, cardiac arrest Soak in hot water, 
see a physician; bring 
shell along for identifi -
cation if it can be 
done safely Avoid handling cone 
shells; if collecting 
live shells hold only at 
broad end 
Beak in mouth at 
base of tentacles; 
salivary glands 
contain toxin Skin wound, bleeding, 
stinging pain Same as coral; 
see a physician Use care when 
handling octopus 
Pinchers Shallow to deep 
wounds, depending 
on size of crab; possi -
ble infection; large 
crabs can amputate 
fingers Wash with soap and 
water, apply antibiotic; 
if wound is serious 
apply pressure to 
stop bleeding and see 
a physician Use care when 
handling crabs 
Spines at base of tail Bleeding, stinging or 
throbbing pain; 
possible infection Soak in hot water, 
wash with soap and 
water, apply antibiotic; 
see physician if 
spines are embedded 
in skin Use care when 
handling surgeonfish 
Scorpionfish 
 Venomous spines in 
dorsal fin Extreme throbbing 
pain which may last 
for hours; in rare 
severe cases convul -
sions or cardiac 
arrest may result Soak in hot water, get 
medical attention 
immediately Wear protective 
footwear on reef; be 
careful where you put 
hands and feet; 
avoid handling live 
scorpionfish; use care 
handling dead scorpi -
onfish ORGANISM CAUSE OF 
INJURY SYMPTOMS / 
INJURY TREATMENT PREVENTION 
48 Stingray Shark Moray eel Needlefish Barracuda Sharp teeth Torn skin, bleeding; 
severe bleeding may 
lead to shock Apply pressure and 
elevate wound to 
control bleeding; lay 
victim down if in 
shock, keep warm, 
elevate legs if possi -
ble; see a physician Use caution when 
swimming and bar -
racuda is seen, avoid 
splashing, don't wear 
reflective jewelry; 
avoid handling caught 
barracuda near mouth 
Long pointed jaw Deep puncture 
wounds, bleeding; 
part of jaw may break 
off; possible infection Clean wound with 
antiseptic solution; do 
not attempt to remove 
embedded parts of 
jaw; get medical 
attention immediately Use caution when 
night diving or torch 
fishing since needle -
fish are attracted to 
lights 
Sharp teeth Torn skin, bleeding; 
injury to muscle, 
tendon, ligament, 
nerve tissue; possible 
infection Clean wound with 
soap and water and 
apply antiseptic; if 
wound is serious 
apply pressure and 
elevate wound to 
control bleeding; 
see a physician Don't put hands or 
fingers into crevices 
on reef; don't provoke 
moray eels 
Sharp teeth and 
scales Scales can cause 
abrasions; bites 
cause severe bleed -
ing and may result in 
shock; injuries from 
bites may be mutilat -
ing, with amputation 
or death in the most 
severe cases Control bleeding by 
applying direct pres -
sure and elevating 
wound; treat for 
shock by laying victim 
down and keeping 
warm; obtain emer -
gency medical help 
immediately Avoid swimming in 
murky water; return to 
shore if shark is sight- 
ed; divers should 
avoid towing speared 
fish for long distances 
Venomous barb on 
tail Puncture wound or 
deep laceration, 
severe pain; injuries 
in abdomen, chest, 
head or neck espe -
cially serious Soak in hot water; 
if barb is embedded 
in skin do not touch 
or attempt to remove; 
get medical attention Shuffle feet when 
walking in shallow 
sandy areas 
Information based on University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant Advisory Report UNIHI-SEAGRANT-AR-78-01, 
July 1978, University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program; the author and publisher specifically dis -
claim any liability, loss, or risk incurred as a result of the use and application, either directly or indirect -
ly, of any advice and information presented here.  Illustrations: National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, Division of Aquatic Resources, Waikīkī Aquarium, University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant 
College Program. 49 FISH BIOLOGY AND HABITAT 
Fish Biology The more you understand about fish the more likely you are to catch them.  Serious fishermen 
pride themselves on being able to think like a fish, or at least that's what they'd like you to 
believe.  If you're going to be a successful angler you have to know what and when your fish eats, 
how it feeds, where it likes to hang out, and other related information.  You'll want to know what 
kinds of habitats are preferred by different fish, and what kinds of fish you're likely to find in a 
particular location. 
As with everything else related to fishing, experience is the best teacher.  The concepts presented 
in this chapter should help you improve your understanding of fish and their environment, and 
your ability to apply this information to your fishing experiences should affect your success. 
A fish is a cold-blooded vertebrate that lives in water, breathes through gills, has fins and usually 
has scales.  Cold-blooded means that it cannot maintain a constant body temperature, so a fish's 
body has the same temperature as the water that surrounds it.  The water temperature will affect 
the fish's metabolism.  If the water is cold, the fish will be less active than in warmer water. 
A vertebrate is an animal that has a backbone, and if you've seen fish skeletons you know they 
definitely have backbones.  Whales and dolphins, which are also vertebrates, are warm-blooded 
mammals (not fish) that breathe with lungs, have flukes and flippers but no fins, and never have 
scales. 
External Anatomy 
Shown below is a diagram of a hypothetical fish.  Fortunately, no real fish looks like this.  The 
drawing shows all the external features you're likely to run into in fish descriptions. 
In the diagram, you'll notice that anterior is the head end of the fish and posterior is the tail end. 
Dorsal is the back surface and ventral is the belly surface. 
DORSAL 
ANTERIOR POSTERIOR 
VENTRAL Operculum 
Nostril Lateral line Dorsal fin Finlets 
Adipose fin 
Caudal fin 
Caudal spine 
Caudal peduncle Scutes 
Anal fin 
Pelvic fin Pectoral fin Barbels 50 Fins 
Most fish have at least seven fins.  Three — the dorsal , caudal , and anal fins — are called median 
fins because they run down the middle of the fish.  In addition, there is a total of four paired fins - 
two pectoral and two pelvic fins, one of each on either side.  Some fish have two separate dorsal 
fins, and some (like trout and catfish) have a fleshy adipose fin near the tail.  Tunas and some 
other fast-swimming fish have finlets in that area. 
The function of fins is to provide propulsion and control.  A fish swims by moving its caudal fin 
left and right, and fish that are fast swimmers have powerful tail muscles.  The other median fins 
provide stability by keeping the fish from rolling to its side while swimming.  The paired fins are 
used mostly for turning, and when swimming backwards.  Finlets help control the flow of water 
over the tail.  Ulua and many of their relatives have scutes along the side of the caudal peduncle 
which may serve the same purpose.  The function of the adipose fin is uncertain. 
Gills 
The operculum , or gill cover, is a bony plate that covers and protects the gills.  Most fish have four 
gills on each side.  In order to breathe, a fish takes water in through its mouth and forces it over 
the gills.  Oxygen is absorbed from the water, and carbon dioxide and ammonia are excreted. 
Structures known as gill rakers prevent food and other large particles from passing over the gills, 
directing them toward the fish's throat instead. 
Sense Organs 
Several sensory organs can be seen on the outside of the fish.  Nostrils serve only as smell detec -
tors — fish cannot breathe through them.  Fish usually have two nostrils on each side — water 
goes in through one opening and out through the other.  Some fish, like goatfish and catfish, have 
barbels under the chin or around the mouth which can detect touch and taste; the fish probes the 
bottom with its barbels to locate prey.  A fish can also detect taste with its tongue. 
Fish have ears, although you can't see them.  They're buried on either side of the head, and receive 
sounds transmitted through the skin, flesh and bones of the head.  A fish's sense of hearing is well 
developed. 
Fish have one sensory organ that no other animal possesses — the lateral line. It functions some -
what like an ear.  It’s sensitive to low frequency vibrations, and with it a fish can detect nearby 
movement in the water.  The lateral line runs along both sides of the fish, and consists of a series 
of very small pits with nerve endings.  Scales along the lateral line have tiny holes in them. 
How a fish swims 51 Fish have an excellent sense of vision, and some (especially reef fish) can probably see colors. 
Because of the location of the fish's eyes it can see almost all the way around its body.  As seen in 
the diagram, both eyes cover the area directly in front of the fish, so it is only in that area that the 
fish has any depth perception.  Vision to the rear is cut off by the fish's body, resulting in a blind 
spot of only about 60 degrees of arc.  Fish that are active at night have large eyes. 
Coloration 
A fish's body coloration has a purpose.  Many fish are colored to avoid being seen by other fish. 
Fish that live on sandy bottoms or in rough water are usually light colored.  The light color is a 
type of camouflage.  So is a color pattern known as countershading .  Fish with countershading are 
dark on the dorsal surface and light below.  This type of coloration is fairly common, and its 
advantages are easy to understand.  Looking at the fish from above, you (or another fish) would 
see a dark fish against a dark background.  Looking from below you'd see a light fish against a 
light background. 
Bars and circles are often found on fish that live near coral heads or in areas of seaweed. Known 
as disruptive coloration , these patterns disrupt an observer's view by breaking up the fish's body in 
some way so it blends with the background or appears less “fish-shaped”.  Some fish (like pāki‘i, 
or flounders) are able to change color to match their background.  It's the ultimate in camouflage. 
Many reef fishes are known for their brilliant coloration.  They're clearly not trying to remain 
inconspicuous.  But most reef fish don't need to hide by virtue of color — they can duck into 
crevices in the reef to avoid predators.  The bright colors may serve primarily for identification, 
especially of potential mates. 
Fish’s field of view Monocular (one-eye) vision 
Monocular vision Binocular vision 
(depth perception) 
Illustrations 
courtesy of NOAA 
Countershading Disruptive coloration 52 Body Shape 
Most fish have a shape that's somewhat long and streamlined, which helps water flow easily over 
the body without much energy loss on the part of the fish.  But the shape of the body is related to 
the fish's habitat and feeding style.  Fish that spend most of their time sitting on or swimming 
along the bottom, such as goatfish and scorpionfish, will have a shape that's fairly flat on the ven -
tral surface.  Fish like eels and trumpetfish, which are long and skinny, aren't known as fast swim -
mers but are good ambush predators.  Their shape gives them low visibility as they sneak up on 
prey.  Fast swimming fish, like jacks and tunas, have very streamlined body shapes.  In fact, the 
bullet shape of a tuna is considered the most perfect shape for high speed swimming. 
Related to body shape is the shape of the tail.  All fast swimmers have a highly forked tail which 
cuts down on water resistance.  Slow swimmers usually have a more rounded tail. 
Mouth structure also tells you something about the fish.  Carnivores (meat eaters) will have large 
mouths with sharp teeth for grasping other fishes, or heavy flat teeth for eating mollusks and other 
hard-shelled animals.  Herbivores (plant eaters) will usually have small mouths with fine teeth for 
biting plants or scraping algae off rocks. 
Internal Anatomy 
We won't spend much time going over the internal organs of a fish.  You'll become familiar 
enough with them as you clean fish.  But there are a couple of structures worth pointing out. Variations in body and tail shapes 
Goatfish Eel 
Scorpionfish Trumpetfish 
Tuna Illustrations courtesy of 
NOAA and Waikiki Aquarium 
Jack 
Digestive tract Gas bladder 53 Most fish have a gas bladder (or swim bladder), which is an air-filled membrane just under the 
backbone.  Its function is to provide the fish with some buoyancy.  Without a gas bladder a fish 
would tend to sink, and would have to keep swimming to stay at a particular level.  Some fish that 
live on the bottom don't have a gas bladder. 
Gas bladders expand as fish are brought up from deep water, and the expansion will cause fish to 
float on the surface if released.  To release a fish in that condition, take a sharp needle and push it 
through the side of the fish, into the gas bladder.  The excess gas will escape, and the wound will 
heal quickly. 
The other structure worth mentioning is the digestive tract .  As you clean fish you'll notice that the 
digestive tracts of carnivores and herbivores are different.  Herbivores have a much longer intes -
tine than carnivores.  That's because plant material is harder to digest than animal material; a 
longer intestine gives the fish more time to break down its food. 
Habitat 
The place where a fish lives is known as its habitat .  Any habitat must provide a fish with certain 
basic requirements: food, good water quality, and protection from predators.  Different kinds of 
fish require different types of habitat, and the waters of Hawai‘i have a number of marine and 
freshwater habitats, each with its own characteristic fishes and other aquatic life. 
Coral Reefs 
Perhaps the best known marine habitat is the coral reef , made up of living and nonliving corals 
and coralline algae .  Corals are small animals ( polyps ) resembling sea anemones, which form hard 
skeletons that remain long after the animals have died.  Coralline algae is red algae that secretes 
calcium carbonate, and makes up most of the reef structure, especially on older reefs. 
Reef areas with living coral attract a great deal of life.  The coral polyps are food for some fish, 
including butterflyfish.  Surgeonfish feed on algae growing on exposed surfaces.  Parrotfish scrape 
algae off dead coral surfaces.  Other fish feed on plankton above the reef.  All these fish are in turn 
preyed upon by larger species higher up the food chain.  Coral also provides shelter for fish and 
other animals, protecting them to some extent from predators.  Fishes generally found in coral reef Coral reef habitat 
54 areas include butterflyfish, surgeonfish, parrotfish, wrasses, damselfish, goatfish, eels, pāpio and 
others (refer to the Other Reef Fishes section of the fish identification pages at the end of the 
book). 
In order to survive, corals need abundant sunlight, clean water, food and oxygen.  Corals eat plank -
ton, and get some food from algae living in their tissues.  Corals have a very low tolerance for 
changes in salinity (amount of salt in the water), and will not grow in areas near freshwater runoff. 
Sunlight is required by the algae living in the coral polyps.  If sunlight can't penetrate down to the 
coral, due to turbid water or siltation, corals will die.  (Corals can clean themselves off to an 
extent, so small amounts of silt can be tolerated.) 
An abundance of nutrients from sources such as sewage may cause seaweed and sponges to grow 
rapidly over the coral and kill it.  These kinds of events have happened over the past few decades 
in Kāne‘ohe Bay on O‘ahu, resulting in degradation of the reef and loss of much marine life. 
However, after steps were taken to reduce the amount of silt and sewage flowing into the bay, the 
corals started to recover and fish populations increased. 
Sandy Bottom Areas 
Sandy areas are often found along the coastline, between and around coral reefs and boulders, and 
in deeper areas beyond the reef.  Many invertebrates burrow into the sand, and are preyed upon by 
fish.  Sandy areas offer little protection for fish, so they generally feed in these areas (especially at 
night when the invertebrates are active) and look for shelter somewhere nearby.  Fish commonly 
found in sandy bottom areas include goatfish, ‘ō‘io, awa‘aua, wrasses, lizardfish, pāki‘i and moi. 
Rocky Shorelines and Boulder Areas 
Many areas of coastline are formed of basalt rock extending into the water with little coral growth 
or sand nearby.  In such areas boulders may be strewn on the seafloor, having broken loose from 
the shoreline at one time.  These areas often have rough wave activity, and only a few types of 
algae and encrusting corals are found here.  The boulders provide shelter for fish, but the small 
amount of available food (compared with a coral reef, for example) limits the number of fish pres -
ent.  However, some herbivores such as nenue and surgeonfish may be found here, feeding on the 
algae that's broken off by wave activity.  Predators such as pāpio may also be present. 
Rocky shoreline 55 Nu‘uanu Reservoir No. 4, 
O‘ahu 
Steep Dropoffs 
Along some of the more vertical rocky shoreline areas, as well as just outside the reef, there is a 
dropoff to fairly deep waters.  Currents in these areas may bring nutrient rich water up from the 
depths, resulting in an abundance of plankton and, in turn, plankton feeding fishes.  These fish will 
often congregate in large schools, and include ‘ōpelu kala and various butterflyfish. 
Offshore Habitats 
The pelagic (open ocean) fishes exist in a habitat quite different from the inshore species.  There is 
no shelter available, so the fish are usually countershaded with a gun-metal blue color above fad -
ing to silvery below.  These fish are active swimmers and ravenous feeders, often moving in closer 
to shore or around bank areas to find food.  Many of these fish, such as mahimahi and various 
tunas, are attracted to floating objects, perhaps because other fishes lower in the food chain are 
also likely to be found there.  In bottom areas are found the various deepwater snappers (‘ōpakapa -
ka, ehu, etc.) and groupers (hāpu‘u). 
Freshwater Habitats 
Hawai‘i has many freshwater streams, but only a few small naturally occurring lakes.  The streams 
are home to only five native species of fish, the ‘o‘opu or freshwater gobies (one species is not a 
true goby).  ‘O‘opu have life cycles that include both freshwater and saltwater environments — 
adults live and lay their eggs in freshwater, and after the eggs hatch the larvae are swept out to sea 
where they spend several months before migrating back to the streams.  ‘O‘opu have pelvic fins 
that are fused together to form suction disks, and some species are able to climb steep waterfalls. 
Several native species of freshwater mollusks and shrimp are found in streams.  Two marine fish, 
āholehole and ‘ama‘ama, can often be found in the brackish lower reaches of streams.  In addition 
to the native fishes, a number of introduced species are also found in Hawai‘i's streams. 
Smallmouth bass, rainbow trout, puntat and tilapia are popular with anglers. 56 Over the years a number of water storage reservoirs were constructed around the state, many of 
which were in turn stocked with introduced sportfish, as discussed in the next chapter.  Large- 
mouth and smallmouth bass, channel catfish, bluegill, tucunare, oscars and pongee are present, and 
are favorite target species for Hawai‘i's freshwater anglers. 
Water Quality 
There are environmental factors other than availability of food and protection from predators that 
affect fish populations.  These factors may affect either the fish themselves or the food chain.  One 
of these is salinity , the proportion of salt in the water.  We've seen that corals can tolerate only a 
very narrow range of salinities.  The same is true of most fish species.  However, some fish such as 
mullet, āholehole and barracuda will often be found in brackish water areas (saltwater mixed with 
freshwater), such as embayments near the mouths of rivers.  Most other saltwater fish would not 
enter such areas. 
Dissolved oxygen is another factor critical to fish (as anyone who's tried to keep baitfish alive in a 
bucket without an aerator knows).  Oxygen is produced by algae through the process of photosyn -
thesis.  It also enters the water through its surface, especially when the surface is churned up by 
wave activity.  There is quite a bit of oxygen in sea water because of its constant mixing.  But in 
tidepools the situation may be much different.  Warm water doesn't hold as much oxygen as cool 
water, and an isolated tidepool may become low in oxygen fairly quickly.  Isolated freshwater 
areas may also become low in oxygen, especially if any plant decomposition is going on.  Algal 
blooms also tend to use up a great deal of oxygen.  Many fish will come to the surface and attempt 
to “gulp” air when the dissolved oxygen level gets too low.  Some fish, such as tilapia and carp, 
can tolerate lowered oxygen levels better than other species.  That's one reason they can be found 
in waters of relatively poor quality. 
Temperature is a factor that most saltwater fish don't have to worry about, since the water tempera -
tures in Hawai‘i vary little during the year.  Still, since temperature decreases as you get deeper, 
there are limits to how deep a fish will be able to go before its metabolism slows down too much. 
Freshwater species, especially in temperate regions, are more susceptible to temperature changes, 
and in some cases their life cycles may be influenced by temperature.  Trout, for example, cannot 
spawn except in cold water.  That's why most of the trout stocked in Hawai‘i cannot reproduce 
here. 
Summing Up 
Fish will be found in areas that provide them with food, good water quality and, in most cases, 
protection from predators.  Each type of habitat has its own characteristic species present, so if you 
know what sort of habitat you're fishing you'll have at least some idea of the kinds of fish likely to 
be there.  Fish are also affected, directly or indirectly, by other factors.  Conditions that degrade the 
reef, such as pollution or siltation, will result in loss of fish from the area.  Restoring fish popula -
tions involves taking these environmental factors into consideration, and is a topic that will be dis -
cussed in the next chapter. 57 CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT 
The early Hawaiians understood the importance of protecting their fish resources.  Fish were 
their major source of protein.  The survival of the Hawaiian people depended on their ability to 
manage their fisheries wisely.  The kapu system, which regulated all aspects of society, applied to 
fishing as well.  Certain activities were strictly forbidden.  For example, the Hawaiians prohibited 
fishing for certain species during their spawning seasons.  Since ‘ōpelu spawn from about January 
through July, aku and ‘ahi were caught at that time, and ‘ōpelu were kapu (forbidden).  When aku 
were spawning, from about July through December, ‘ōpelu and akule were taken. 
The need to protect spawning fish is obvious:  fish must be allowed to reproduce in order for the 
species to survive.  It's believed that the early Hawaiians probably knew more about the life histo -
ries of some fish than we do today, and seasonal restrictions were based on their knowledge of the 
fish's biology.  Other laws prohibited taking more than a portion of the fish supply from one area at 
a time; greed would not be tolerated.  The Hawaiians took their laws very seriously.  Violating a 
kapu often meant death.  The needs of society outweighed everything else; food resources could 
not be wasted. 
The number of fish around the Hawaiian islands in these early years can only be imagined, but it 
must have been incredible.  The Hawaiian population was fairly small, the reefs were unspoiled, 
and enough fish were present to adequately meet the demands of the people.  Over the years, cul -
tural changes affected nearshore fisheries.  The kapu system was abolished by Kamehameha II in 
1819.  Waves of immigrants arrived from Asia, Europe and America, bringing with them new tech -
niques for catching fish.  These newcomers didn't share the Hawaiians' sense of oneness with the 
sea and its creatures. 
As the population continued to grow, more people were using better fishing methods.  The num -
bers of fishes on the reef were no longer enough to satisfy the growning number of fishermen, and 
fish populations declined.  Fish habitats were also affected as a result of the growing population. 
The shoreline would be changed by development, and the quality of nearshore waters would 
become affected by technology. 
The old way of punishment 
Lithograph after Jacques Arago 
Courtesy of Bishop Museum 58 Regulations A new system was needed to manage nearshore resources so fish and other aquatic life would be 
conserved and sustained for the future.  The system must balance out the needs of both consump -
tive (e.g. removing fish for food or aquarium pets) and nonconsumptive (catch-and-release fishing, 
dive tours, etc.) users of the resource. 
Management today involves controlling use of the resource, as well as manipulating habitat and 
fish populations.  It includes a) regulations to control taking of existing resources, b) management 
by area to protect fish populations, c) habitat enhancement to provide shelter and attract fishes, 
and d) introduced species and stock enhancement , culturing and releasing fishes in order to 
improve fishing opportunities. 
The end of the kapu system was not the end of fishing rules.  In 1839 Kamehameha III established 
the first written set of laws in Hawai‘i's history, and a long section dealt with fish and fishing 
grounds.  However, the new laws were not as effective as the kapu system at conserving marine 
resources.  In 1900, shortly after Hawai‘i became a territory of the United States, studies were 
made of Hawai‘i's fisheries and fishing laws by the U.S. Congress.  The territorial government 
and, later, the state government continued to pass new laws to protect fish and other marine 
resources. 
Today, all of the submerged lands of the state, from the high water 
mark seaward to a distance of at least three miles, are under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR). 
The department has been given the authority to establish rules as it sees 
fit to protect the nearshore environment, much as the early Hawaiians 
did.  The state legislature can also pass laws for this purpose.  For 
example, the importance of coral to marine life was 
discussed in the previous chapter.  Removing coral as a souvenir has 
long been popular, but it's clearly not in the best interest of fish.  It's 
now illegal to take any stony coral. 
Penalties for violating fishing rules and regulations are not as severe as they were in the old days, 
but they are a deterrent.  Most violations of laws and rules relating to protection of the marine 
environment are punishable by stiff fines and jail sentences.  Because regulations change from 
time to time, it’s important to keep current on them. 
Closed Seasons 
Earlier we mentioned the importance of closed seasons for 
fish reproduction.  Some species of fish and crustaceans are 
protected by closed seasons during their critical spawning 
months, as was the case in earlier times.  Closed seasons 
have been established for ‘ama‘ama (striped mullet, closed 
December through March), moi (closed June through 
August), lobster and Kona crab (closed May through 
August).  Lobster spawn to a certain extent all year, so it's 
always illegal to take a lobster with eggs.  If the population 
of a species falls to drastically low levels, a continuous 
closed season may be imposed.  That's the case with clams, 
oysters and many other mollusks.  Taking them is prohibit -
ed all year long.  However, the season may reopen one day, 
if populations recover sufficiently. 
Moi: Closed season June - August; 
Minimum size 11 inches; Bag limit 15 
Courtesy of Waikīkī Aquarium 59 Management by Area Minimum Sizes 
A number of fish and crustaceans have regulations on minimum size.  The reason for size restric -
tions is related to the animal's life cycle.  Fish cannot reproduce until they reach a certain size, and 
that size depends on the species.  Minimum size restrictions are designed to allow fish to grow 
large enough to be able to reproduce.  As more information is learned about the biology of various 
species, minimum size rules and other regulations are likely to change.  Because large fish produce 
many more eggs than smaller fish, maximum sizes may one day be introduced as well to protect 
the best spawners. 
Bag Limits 
A few of the more popular marine species, as well as most of the introduced freshwater sport- 
fishes, have bag limits — limits on the number of fish you may take in one day or have in your 
possession.  These restrictions are similar in intent to the old laws governing how many fish could 
be taken from a particular area.  Taking too many fish could put a serious dent in the population. 
Bag limits also make more fish available to other fishers. 
Other Regulations 
In addition to the regulations described above, restrictions apply to the use of certain types of fish -
ing gear (for example, minimum mesh sizes for nets and traps, and prohibiting spearing of lobster). 
Seasonal restrictions on maximum sizes of freshwater gamefish apply in certain areas.  Regulations 
pertaining to particular areas are in effect (as described somewhat in the following sections).  It's 
important to know and follow the law.  As mentioned in an earlier chapter, you should always have 
a current copy of the Hawai‘i Fishing Regulations booklet.  These are available from DLNR 
offices and most fishing supply stores. 
Marine Life Conservation Districts 
In the fall of 1967 the state closed Hanauma Bay on O‘ahu to all forms of fishing, making it illegal 
to take any type of marine life from the area.  The effects of this closure have been amazing - the 
number of fish in Hanauma Bay have increased tremendously, making it one of the state's most 
popular destinations for visitors and locals alike.  Hanauma Bay was the state's first Marine Life 
Hanauma Bay MLCD, 
O‘ahu 
60 Conservation District (MLCD), and its success in restoring fish resources resulted in the establish -
ment of ten others (to date), including Molokini Shoal off the island of Maui, and Kealakekua Bay 
on the Big Island. 
MLCDs are generally closed to fishing, but certain exceptions apply to some areas.  One of the 
benefits of MLCDs as breeding areas for fish is not real obvious:  the larvae that hatch out of fish 
eggs spawned in the protected waters of an MLCD can be dispersed by currents to surrounding 
areas, and probably even to other islands.  MLCDs have proven to be a very effective method of 
increasing the numbers of nearshore fishes, and more MLCDs are likely to be established around 
the state in the future. 
Shoreline Fisheries Management Areas 
The success of MLCDs showed that fish populations could increase rapidly when an area is per -
manently closed to fishing.  In 1978 the state began an experiment to determine whether closing an 
area temporarily could have a similar effect.  The area chosen was just offshore of Waikīkī and 
Diamond Head, on the island of O‘ahu.  Fish counts of the area were made during Fiscal Year 
(FY) 1978 (July 1, 1977 to June 30, 1978), and the area was then closed for two years beginning 
July 1, 1978 (FYs 1979 and 1980).  During this time the numbers of fish increased, as expected. 
On July 1, 1980 (the start of FY 1981) the area was opened to pole and line fishing and hand har -
vesting, then opened to all legal fishing methods at the beginning of FY 1982.  The area was again 
closed for two years at the start of FY 1983, and the cycle repeated.  The graph shows the results 
of fish counts taken during the period from FY 1978 through FY 1988.  The dark bars represent 
years during which the area was closed. 
After studying this and other data, it was concluded that the decrease in fish populations that took 
place when the area was open to all legal fishing methods was due mostly to net fishing and, to a 
lesser extent, night spearing.  In addition, it was felt that the fish populations could recover enough 
in a year's time to allow only certain types of fishing.  So the rules changed.  The Waikīkī-Dia- 
mond Head Shoreline Fisheries Managment Area (SFMA) is now closed for only one year, then 
open for one year.  Use of nets (except thrownets) is prohibited, as is night spearing.  In order to 
get away from the confusing fiscal year dates, the openings are now on a calendar year basis. 
During even-numbered years the area is open (starting January 1), and it's closed during odd- 
numbered years. 
61 Habitat Enhancement 
Artificial Reefs 
The attractiveness of reef areas to fish was discussed in the previous chapter.  Reefs provide food 
and protection from predators, whereas barren areas have little to offer a fish.  Placing artificial 
shelters in barren areas should attract fish. 
Attempts to create artificial reefs were made with car bodies in the early 1970s.  Unfortunately, 
the cars rusted away within a few years.  Concrete structures (pipes and pilings) proved to be more 
permanent, but were difficult to deploy and tended to move around during periods of strong surf. 
Eventually a modular design consisting of eight to ten old tires embedded in a six foot long slab of 
concrete was selected.  Hundreds of these modules are loaded onto a barge, then deployed and 
stacked underwater in large piles. 
The results have been impressive.  Areas which were once desolate now attract thousands of fish. 
To date the state has established four artificial reef sites off O‘ahu and one off Maui.  In addition to 
the tire modules, hulls of old ships and barges may be sunk on the sites, providing more habitat. 
Fish Aggregating Devices 
Fishermen have known for a long time that some species, like mahimahi and aku, are attracted to 
floating objects.  It's not clear why they're attracted, but the most likely explanation relates to the 
food chain:  small fish may congregate there, possibly in an attempt to hide from predators.  For 
years man-made floating objects have been placed in the ocean to attract species, in areas includ -
ing the Philippines, Sea of Japan and Mediterranean Sea. 
Fish aggregating devices (FADs) were first tried in Hawai‘i in 1977.  The initial design used old 
cane haul tires filled with polyurethane foam.  Streamers were attached to the mooring line along 
the top hundred feet, and were the major fish attractant.  Unfortunately, the foam would eventually 
soak up water.  A new design was tried using five surplus Navy buoys welded together in a pentas -
phere.  It was found that the amount of drag on the buoys caused considerable strain on the moor -
ing line, and they would often break loose. Weke attracted to 
artificial reef modules 
62 To reduce the drag, a single 58 inch sphere was tried.  This design proved to be the most stable, 
and is still in use.  There are over 60 surface FAD stations around the state, with more planned for 
the near future.  They are by far the most popular ocean sites for recreational fishing. 
Because the drag on even single sphere FADs causes them to break loose from time to time, anoth -
er design was tested.  Midwater FADs were constructed of four spheres welded together in a tetra -
hedral arrangement.  Rather than floating on the surface, they were located 40 to 60 feet below it. 
This eliminated surface drag, and was expected to extend the life of the FADs.  A trolling alley 
consisting of a row of ten midwater FADs was first installed off the Wai‘anae coast of O‘ahu.  A 
second set of midwater FADs was deployed off Moloka‘i.  The midwater FAD system never made 
it past the experimental stage.  They were more difficult to maintain than expected, and fishers 
often had a hard time finding them. Fishing at a FAD 
Chain with streamers 
Polypropylene line 
Chain 
Anchor blocks Counterweight 40 - 60 feet 
Not drawn 
to scale Midwater FAD Surface FAD 
Buoy(s) 63 Introduced Species and Stock Enhancement 
From time to time species not native to Hawai‘i are brought in to provide more fishing opportun- 
ities for local fishermen.  Examples of marine species that have been introduced include ta‘ape, 
to‘au and roi.  Before a species may be brought into the state, considerable studies must be done 
on the possible effects of the introduction.  Certain species (like piranha) may not be brought in 
under any conditions. 
Freshwater Introductions 
As mentioned in the previous chapter, Hawai‘i has only five species of native freshwater fish. 
Only one of these, the ‘o‘opu nākea , has been fished to any extent.  In order to improve freshwater 
recreational fishing opportunities, the state has introduced such popular sportfish as largemouth 
and smallmouth bass, rainbow trout, channel catfish, tucunare, bluegill and others.  These fish are 
generally released into places designated as “Public Fishing Areas,” such as Wahiawā and Nu‘uanu 
Reservoirs on O‘ahu and Kōke‘e State Park on Kaua‘i.  A license is required in order to take intro -
duced freshwater sportfish. 
Fish Hatcheries 
Rainbow trout are stocked in the waters of Kōke‘e on Kaua‘i.  Because the water temperature is so 
warm, they are unable to spawn successfully.  So every year about 100,000 trout eggs are shipped 
to Hawai‘i from California.  These eggs are taken to a DLNR facility at Sand Island on O‘ahu 
where they are hatched and raised to fingerling size.  They are then flown to Kaua‘i, transported to 
Kōke‘e, and placed in cages in Pu‘u Lua Reservoir.  After grow-out to a larger size, some are 
stocked into streams, while others are released directly into the reservoir. 
Channel catfish were stocked in Nu‘uanu Reservoir on O‘ahu, and spawned in late spring. 
Because other predatory fish present in the reservoir would eat any young catfish they could find, 
the chances of survival were low.  So each spring fishery technicians went into the reservoir with 
scuba gear and collected as many catfish eggs as possible (the nest locations were pretty well 
known).  The eggs were taken to Sand Island where they were raised to fingerlings, then grown out 
in cages in Nu‘uanu Reservoir.  Eventually they were released into the reservoir. Channel catfish fingerlings, 
Sand Island, O‘ahu 
64 How You Can Help Fish hatcheries can also be used to culture native marine fishes, which are then released into 
nearshore waters.  This process, known as stock enhancement, is still relatively new.  Experiments 
have been conducted with mullet, moi, mahimahi and a few other species in which fish are grown 
out from eggs, raised to an appropriate size, then released.  The released fish are expected to help 
increase the sizes of existing populations. 
The success of the state's efforts to restore nearshore fisheries, and improve both freshwater and 
marine fishing opportunities, depends largely on the people who fish.  You can help make fishing 
better for the future by being a “ pono ” fisherman — an ethical angler.  Your actions when fishing 
should be based on a respect for yourself, for others, and for the sea.  Following the steps below 
will go a long way to helping our fish populations, and make fishing more enjoyable. 
Take only the fish you need. The fun of fishing is in the fight; if you don't need to eat your catch, 
release it carefully as described earlier.  Always let the small ones go, whether there's a minimum 
size or not. 
Know and follow current fishing regulations. All regulations were introduced for a reason, 
based on our understanding of the fish's biology.  If you happen to catch something that's out of 
season, and feel it will die anyway, throw it back.  It will provide food for other fish, and you 
won't get busted. 
Report violations. If you see somebody fishing illegally and don't want to confront them, call the 
number in the back of your fishing regulations booklet.  Get a license number if possible.  Not 
only are you helping to conserve the resource, but you might even get to keep part of the fine. 
Respect ocean life. Don't spear fish just for the “fun” of it.  Don't use illegal or unethical fishing 
methods that destroy or alter habitat.  When diving or snorkeling leave things as you found them. 
When anchoring a boat don't drag the anchor over live coral.  Think about the consequences of 
your actions, and treat all aquatic life with respect. 
Don't pollute. Dispose of trash properly.  This includes old fishing line, nets, etc.  Throwing these 
things into the ocean presents a hazard to fish and other aquatic life, and leaving them lying around 
on land is dangerous to people.  Besides, it's illegal. 
Respect the rights of others. Treat other fishermen the way you'd want them to treat you.  Be 
considerate.  Don't spook their fish, tangle their lines, or do other things to take the fun out of fish -
ing.   If fishing from a boat, slow down when approaching other anglers.  If crossing private prop -
erty to get to a fishing spot, respect the rights of the property owner. 
Fishing is a sport that can be enjoyed for a lifetime, and passed on from generation to generation. 
The future of fishing in Hawai‘i depends on all of us. 65 GOATFISH 
Goatfish are bottom-feeding carnivores, 
easily recognized by the pair of barbels 
under their jaws which are used to locate 
food.  Tucked under the sides of the jaw 
when not in use, the barbels may not be 
immediately apparent.  Goatfish are com -
mon in inshore waters, and are among the 
most popular food fish in Hawaii. 
Kūmū 
Parupeneus porphyreus 
Whitesaddle goatfish 
Description :  Juveniles greenish with red 
fins, body coloration becomes brick red 
with age; white saddle behind soft dorsal 
fin; dark stripe running through eye from 
near snout to below first dorsal fin, darker 
spot between eye and upper edge of gill 
cover. 
Size :  Length up to 20 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Various depths throughout reef 
areas, especially under coral heads. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; mostly crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Small groups by day, solitary 
at night. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, trap, net, hand -
line, pole and line. 
Seasonality :  Young kūmū common on 
inshore reefs throughout spring and sum -
mer; adults common year round. 
Kūmū are extremely prized fish in Hawai‘i; 
the flesh is considered a delicacy. 
Endemic to Hawai‘i. 
Malu 
Parupeneus pleurostigma 
Sidespot goatfish 
Description :  Body light, whitish to pink; 
black spot on side below rear of first dor -
sal fin, followed by large oval white area. 
Size :  Length up to 16 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Sandy patches adjacent to coral, 
from nearshore to depths of about 120 
feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small worms, crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Adults solitary; juveniles small 
groups. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, spear, trap, 
net. Moano 
Parupeneus multifasciatus 
Manybar goatfish 
Description:  Reddish with shades of yel -
low and white; black marks behind eye, at 
base of pectoral fin, and black saddle 
areas in front of first dorsal fin, between 
dorsal fins, below soft dorsal fin, and in 
front of tail; deepness of color varies with 
light intensity, becoming lighter in bright 
light. 
Size:  Length up to 14 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 1 pound. 
Habitat:  Rocky areas, sandy bottoms near 
coral heads. 
Feeding:  Diurnal; crustaceans, small fish. 
Schooling:  Solitary or small groups. 
Fishing methods:  Handline, trap, spear, 
pole and line. 
Moano kea 
Parupeneus cyclostomus 
Moana kali, blue goatfish 
Description :  Bluish-purple, with promi -
nent yellow saddle at base of tail; slender 
body, long snout and long barbels. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Rocky or reef areas, from 
nearshore to depth of about 200 feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small fish, crustaceans. 
Schooling:  Adults small groups; juveniles 
solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, spear, trap, 
net, pole and line 
Munu 
Parupeneus bifasciatus 
Doublebar goatfish, Joe Louis 
Description :  Reddish to yellowish-gray; 
black triangular saddle under each dorsal 
fin and near tail. Size :  Length up to 16 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 3 pounds. 
Habitat :  Rocky areas, especially lava 
rocks, from nearshore to about 150 feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; small 
fish, crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small groups. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, spear, trap, 
net, pole and line. 
Weke ‘ā, ‘oama 
Mulloides flavolineatus 
White weke, yellowstripe goatfish 
Description :  Silvery white; yellow band 
extends from eye to tail when schooling; 
band becomes less distinct when feeding, 
and a black spot appears below first dor -
sal fin; very slender body compared with 
most other goatfish. 
Size :  Length up to 18 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Sandy bottom areas near coral 
patches; shallow water (to about 100 feet). 
Feeding :  Nocturnal and diurnal; crus -
taceans, worms. 
Schooling :  Schools by day. 
Fishing methods :  ‘Oama (juveniles) 
taken by pole and line; adults by net, trap, 
pole and line, spear. 
Seasonality :  ‘Oama commonly found in 
shallow sandy areas during late summer; 
adult weke common year round. 
‘Oama make excellent bait for papio and 
other predators, and are highly sought by 
shoreline fishermen. 
Weke ‘ula, ‘oama 
Mulloides vanicolensis 
Red weke, yellowfin goatfish 
Description :  Light pink with yellow hues; 
long yellow band extending from eye to 
base of tail; fish becomes reddish when 
dead; inner lining of abdomen is black. 
Size :  Length up to 16 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Reef areas, generally in depths 
from 20-200 feet. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; small worms and 
crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Large schools during the day; 
solitary or small groups at night when 
feeding. 66 Fishing methods :  Mostly net and trap. 
Seasonality :  Juveniles, known as ‘oama, 
common offshore in late summer; adults 
common year round. 
Weke nono 
Mulloides pflugeri 
Weke ‘ula, moelua, Pfluger's goatfish 
Description :  Red with vertical orange-yel -
low bands when alive; color changes to uni -
form red when dead; inner lining of abdomi -
nal cavity white; fairly robust compared with 
most other goatfish. 
Size :  Length up to 24 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 8 pounds. 
Habitat :  Sand patches and limestone bot -
toms, usually 60-300 feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small fish and crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Small groups or large schools. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, trap, spear. 
Weke pueo 
Upeneus spp. 
Nightmare weke, bandtail goatfish 
Description :  Light greenish above, fading 
to white below; black and white horizontal 
stripes on tail. 
Size :  Length up to 12 inche 
Habitat :  Shallow sandy or muddy bottoms. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; crustaceans and small 
fish. 
Schooling :  Small group 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, net, 
spear. 
Weke pueo should be prepared and eaten 
with care, since the head may cause hallu -
cinations and other symptoms of poisoning 
if consumed. SURGEONFISH 
Surgeonfish (tangs) have blade-like spines 
on either side of the base of the tail, which 
are sometimes used defensively by the 
fish. (Fishermen have suffered cuts on 
their account, so surgeonfish should 
always be handled with care.)  Surgeon- 
fish are very common in inshore waters, 
feeding primarily by day, and at night rest -
ing on the bottom in a sleep-like state. 
Because they are mostly plant eaters, 
having small mouths and specialized 
teeth, most surgeonfish are difficult to 
catch with hook and line. 
Kala 
Naso unicornis 
Bluespine unicornfish 
Description :  Dusky olive, with light blue 
on the fins and around the caudal spines; 
horn protruding from front of head about 
eye level (lengthens with age).  A similar 
species, Naso brevirostris , is grayish 
green with numerous small spots or dark 
lines on the sides, and a body that is less 
deep.  Kala have two fixed caudal spines 
on each side. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 8 pounds. 
Habitat :  Inshore reef areas and along 
rocky shores. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; algae, especially more 
leafy varieties. 
Schooling :  Schools; large adults some -
times found singly at edge of reef. 
Fishing methods :  Net, spear, pole and 
line. 
Kole 
Ctenochaetus strigosus 
Goldring surgeonfish 
Description :  Dark brown with about 35 
light blue horizontal lines extending into 
the fins, small blue spots on the head, 
bright yellow ring around the eye; single 
retractable caudal spine on each side. 
Size :  Length up to 7 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 1⁄2pound. 
Habitat :  Inshore reef areas, and depths 
of 150 feet or more. 
Feeding :  Diurnal, small bits of algae and 
decaying plant material. Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Spear. 
Manini 
Acanthurus triostegus sandvicensis 
Convict tang 
Description :  Silvery, may have yellowish 
tinge; six black vertical bars, the first pass -
ing through the eye and the last near the 
base of the tail; single small retractable 
caudal spine on each side. 
Size :  Length up to 12 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 3⁄4pound. 
Habitat :  Most reef areas, from shore to 
depths of about 90 feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; mostly fine algae. 
Schooling :  Large schools, but also seen 
singly or in small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Net, spear. 
Manini are the most abundant surgeonfish 
in Hawai‘i. 
Endemic to Hawai‘i. 
‘Ōpelu kala 
Naso hexacanthus 
Sleek unicornfish 
Description :  Color varies from dark 
brown to pale blue, with a dark blue tail 
fin; two fixed caudal spines on each side. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 3 pounds. 
Habitat :  Deeper waters outside reef; not 
common in waters less than 30 to 50 feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; plankton, including crab 
larvae and small worms. 
Schooling :  Large schools. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, net, pole and 
line. 
67 Palani 
Acanthurus dussumieri 
Eyestripe surgeonfish 
Description :  Yellowish brown with black 
spots, bright blue tail fin, fine blue lines on 
body fading towards belly, yellow dorsal 
and anal fins, yellow band between and 
behind the eyes; single white retractable 
caudal spine on each side, surrounded by 
a patch of black. 
Size :  Length up to 18 inches or more; 
weight generally up to 3 pounds. 
Habitat :  Mostly bays and outer reef areas 
over sandy patches, usually at depths of 
at least 10 feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; algae and decaying 
plant material. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, trap. 
Pualu 
Acanthurus spp. 
Ringtail surgeonfish, yellowfin surgeonfish 
Description :  Purplish gray, sometimes 
with irregular dark stripes along the sides, 
dorsal and anal fins have horizontal blue 
bands, yellow spot between eye and top of 
gill cover;  single black retractable caudal 
spine on each side. 
Size :  Length up to 20 inches or more; 
weight generally up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Bays and harbors; also deep 
outer reefs with sandy patches, usually at 
depths of 30 feet or more. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; mostly algae, but often 
hooked with animal material as bait. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, net, handline. WRASSES 
Wrasses make up the largest family of 
fishes in Hawaii.  Nearly 50 species are 
known to exist here, but only a few are 
popular with fishermen.  Males and 
females of the same species frequently 
have different colorations, and wrasses 
are known to undergo sex conversions 
from female to male.  Coloration changes 
as the fish gets older. 
‘A‘awa 
Bodianus bilunulatus 
Hawaiian hogfish, table boss 
Description :  Juveniles (up to 4 inches) 
whitish with reddish brown horizontal lines 
and large black spot between soft dorsal 
and anal fins; as fish grows older spot dis -
appears and black saddle forms at rear of 
dorsal fin; females white with brown hori -
zontal lines in front, shading to yellow near 
tail; males wine-colored or purplish brown, 
and black saddle is faint or absent. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 4 pounds. 
Habitat :  Common throughout reef area, 
taken on bottom in shallow water out to 
depths of about 100 feet or more. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small fish, crustaceans, 
molluscs, sea urchins. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, spear, pole 
and line. 
Hinālea lauwili 
Thalassoma duperrey 
Saddle wrasse 
Description :  Green with vertical purple-red 
bars, purplish blue head and wide orange 
saddle surrounding body just behind head; 
saddle not apparent on juveniles. 
Size :  Length up to 1 foot; weight generally 
up to 1⁄2pound. 
Habitat :  Very abundant along shallow 
rocky shorelines and reef areas. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; seaweed, crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small aggregate. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, handline. 
Generally an incidental catch; food value 
considered poor, often used as bait. 
Endemic to Hawai‘i. Laenihi 
Xyrichtys umbrilatus 
Blackside razorfish, nabeta 
Description :  Blue-green or grayish body 
with faint vertical crossbands, one dark 
scale on either side below front of dorsal 
fin, yellow stripe on anal fin. 
Size :  Length up to 15 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Sandy areas at depths of 60 to 
300 feet, generally within a few hundred 
yards of the shoreline. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Considered an excellent food fish. 
Endemic to Hawai‘i. 
Po‘ou 
Oxycheilinus unifasciatus 
Ringtail wrasse 
Description :  Color varies with age; at 10 
inches the fish is plain olive green with 
white saddle near tail; fish 20 inches and 
over have no white saddle, but show black 
spots at base of dorsal and anal fins, and 
have dark pelvic fins. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Reef and rocky areas at depths 
of up to 40 or 50 feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, spear. 
68 ‘Ama‘ama, pua 
Mugil cephalus 
Striped mullet 
Description :  Body silver with grayish- 
green above changing to white below, red -
dish tinge around mouth and gills.  A simi -
lar species, Chelon engeli (summer or 
Australian mullet), is smaller than the 
amaama, growing to a length of about 8 
inches, and has slightly larger scales. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Calm waters close to shore, 
around mouths of streams and inlets, and 
brackish bays and harbors. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; algae and small plants, 
especially along bottom. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Generally taken with 
nets; difficult to catch with pole and line, 
but will take a hook baited with thin sea -
weed or bread. 
Seasonality :  Spawns December through 
February. 
Uouoa 
Neomyxus leuciscus 
Sharpnose mullet 
Description :  Grayish back, changing to 
silver on the sides, white belly; yellow spot 
present at base of pectoral fins; snout 
more pointed than ‘ama‘ama. 
Size :  Length up to 16 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 1 1⁄2pounds. 
Habitat :  Sandy shores, tide pools, rocky 
surge areas. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; seaweed, some crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Net. 
Seasonality :  More common November 
through March. Kākū 
Sphyraena barracuda 
Great barracuda 
Description :  Greyish back turning silvery 
on sides and belly, with irregular black 
flecks on sides. 
Size :  Length up to 6 feet; weight general -
ly up to 70 pounds. 
Habitat :  Various, inshore and offshore; 
juveniles prefer brackish water areas, bays 
and stream mouths. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish and 
squid. 
Schooling :  Generally solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Generally caught cast -
ing from shore, trolling lures and baits, and 
handlining from boats.  Prominent sharp 
teeth make a wire leader essential, and 
the fish should be regarded with caution. 
Kawale‘ā 
Sphyraena helleri 
Heller's barracuda 
Description :  Silvery olive above, becom -
ing silvery on sides and belly; sides 
marked with two horizontal yellowish 
stripes which disappear after death. 
Smaller than kaku, with more slender head 
and larger eyes. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 4 pounds. 
Habitat :  Inshore to depths of 50 to 200 
feet. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; small fish. 
Schooling :  Large schools. 
Fishing methods :  Mostly handline. Ta‘ape 
Lutjanus kasmira 
Bluestripe snapper 
Description :  Bright lemon yellow with 
four pale-blue horizontal stripes edged 
with lavender or deep purple. 
Size :  Length up to 15 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 1 1⁄2pounds. 
Habitat :  Hard bottom areas, generally in 
waters 40 to over 300 feet deep. 
Feeding :  Primarily nocturnal; shrimp and 
other crustaceans, squid, and small fish. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Generally taken at 
night with handlines; some taken in traps 
or nets; occasionally by pole and line near 
shore and by spear. 
Introduced 1958 and 1961 from 
Marquesas Islands and Society Islands. 
To‘au 
Lutjanus fulvus 
Blacktail snapper 
Description :  Dusky yellow above fading 
to pale yellow or white below, six or more 
thin horizontal yellow stripes along side; 
dorsal fin reddish, tail fin blackish with red -
dish tinge and white margin; other fins yel -
low. 
Size :  Length up to 13 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 3 pounds. 
Habitat :  Inshore, brackish water and 
around stream mouths out to waters about 
40 or 50 feet in depth. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; crustaceans, espe -
cially crabs, and small fish. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small school. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, pole and 
line, trap, spear. 
Introduced 1956 and 1958 from Society 
Islands. MULLET BARRACUDAS NEARSHORE SNAPPERS 
69 Wahanui 
Aphareus furca 
Smalltooth jobfish, gurutsu 
Description :  Uniform steel blue or pur -
plish, with yellow border on anal fin. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Open water, generally just out -
side or above reef. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small fish and crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small school. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, hand -
line, spear. 
‘Aha 
Belonidae 
Needlefish 
Description:  Blue green on back, fading to 
silvery below; jaws long and pointed, with 
sharp teeth. 
Size:  Length depends on species, 15 
inches to more than 4 feet; weight gener -
ally up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat:  Near surface in waters of various 
depths from nearshore to open ocean. 
Feeding:  Diurnal and nocturnal; small fish 
near the surface, floating crabs. 
Schooling:  Schools. 
Fishing methods:  Pole and line. 
Aha can be dangerous at night; they are 
attracted to lights and have been known to 
spear people. 
Āholehole 
Kuhlia sandvicensis 
Hawaiian flagtail 
Description :  Silvery, with blue tones on 
back, fins often dusky tipped. 
Size :  Length up to 12 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 1 pound. OTHER REEF FISHES Habitat :  Inshore areas, including streams, 
bays and along shoreline; generally found 
at depths less than 20 feet; juveniles live 
in tide pools or schools close to shore. 
Feeding :  Mostly nocturnal; primarily crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, cast 
nets, spear. 
Seasonality :  More taken during fall and 
winter. 
Endemic to Hawai‘i. 
‘Ala‘ihi 
Sargocentron and Neoniphon spp. 
Squirrelfish 
Description :  Bright red, fading to lighter 
below in some species; sides marked with 
six or more light horizontal lines; most 
species take on prominent nocturnal col -
oration, generally white spots or vertical 
bands. 
Size :  Length up to 12 inches or more, 
depending on species; weight up to 5 
pounds for largest species. 
Habitat :  Inshore reef areas, congregating 
in crevices and caves by day and foraging 
over the reef at night. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or grouped, depend -
ing on species. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, handline, pole 
and line, trap. 
Awa 
Chanos chanos 
Milkfish 
Description :  Grayish green above, fading 
to silvery below. 
Size :  Length up to 3 feet or more; most 
caught are around 18 to 24 inches; weight 
generally up to 40 pounds. 
Habitat :  Near surface in inshore areas, 
including brackish-water areas, bays and 
inlets. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; algae. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, net. 
Seasonality :  Generally more taken in 
summer months. Awa‘aua 
Elops hawaiensis 
Hawaiian tenpounder 
Description :  Bright silvery, with blue- 
green hue on the dorsal area. 
Size :  Length up to 3 feet or more; weight 
generally up to 12 pounds. 
Habitat :  Inshore areas, including bays 
and harbors, and along sandy shorelines. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; small fish 
and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Singly or in small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, net. 
‘Āweoweo 
Priacanthidae 
Bigeye, glasseye 
Description :  Variable coloration, from 
deep red to silvery, or mottled silvery pink 
and red; fins often speckled with black; 
some species plain red by day. 
Size :  Length depends on species, up to 
20 inches; weight generally up to 3 
pounds. 
Habitat :  Shallow reefs out to deep boul -
der areas. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; small fish and inver -
tebrates. 
Schooling :  Solitary or schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, hand -
line, spear, net. 
Kūpīpī 
Abudefduf sordidus 
Blackspot sergeant 
Description :  Grayish brown above fading 
to silvery below; sides marked with seven 
dark vertical bands; dark spot on upper 
side of caudal peduncle and at base of 
dorsal fin. 
Size :  Length up to 9 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 1 pound. 
Habitat :  Inshore reef and boulder areas; 
shallow rock crevices; juveniles common 
in tide pools. 
70 
Feeding :  Diurnal; algae, small crus -
taceans and other invertebrates. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, spear. 
Mamo 
Abudefduf abdominalis 
Hawaiian sergeant 
Description :  Pale brassy or green with 
four or five black vertical bars; belly white 
with yellow tinge near anal fin. 
Size :  Length up to 9 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 3⁄4pound. 
Habitat :  Shallow water reefs, harbors and 
bays, from nearshore to edge of reef. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small crustaceans, 
plankton. 
Schooling :  Loose aggregates. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, spear. 
Endemic to Hawai‘i. 
Moi 
Polydactylus sexfilis 
Six-fingered threadfin 
Description :  Dusky above, silvery on 
sides and belly, with numerous narrow 
wavy horizontal lines along sides; fins 
black-tipped; characterized by presence of 
six long filaments extending from base of 
each pectoral fin, and overhanging snout. 
Size :  Length up to 24 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 6 pounds. 
Habitat :  Generally found in sandy holes 
along rocky shorelines, or along sandy 
beaches in surge areas. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; primarily 
crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, net. 
Seasonality :  Spawn during summer 
months; from about May through August 
small moi (or moi-li‘i) occur in schools 
along beaches and in sheltered coves. Mū 
Monotaxis grandoculis 
Bigeye emperor 
Description :  Olive gray above fading to 
silvery below; sides marked with four light 
vertical bands which fade as fish gets 
older; inside of mouth red. 
Size :  Length up to 30 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Various reef areas, generally 
moving into shallower waters during 
evening. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; small mollusks and 
crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or loose aggregates. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, spear. 
Nenue 
Kyphosus spp. 
Enenue, sea chub, rudderfish 
Description: Gray brown with blue reflec -
tions above, fading to lighter below; nar -
row dark bands on sides between scale 
rows; some fish have irregular yellow 
blotches on sides, and on rare occasions 
a fish may be entirely yellow. 
Size: Length up to 24 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 6 pounds. 
Habitat: Rough and turbulent waters 
along rocky coasts. 
Feeding: Diurnal; mostly algae. 
Schooling: Schools. 
Fishing methods: Spear, net, pole and 
line. 
Nohu 
Scorpaenopsis cacopsis 
Scorpionfish 
Description :  Mottled camouflage col -
oration, reddish brown with irregular white 
and yellow hues, fading to lighter below; 
spines venomous. Size :  Length up to 20 inches or more; 
weight generally up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Outer edges of reef in water over 
20 feet deep. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small fish and inverte -
brates. 
Schooling :  Solitary, sedentary. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, pole and line. 
‘Ōʻio 
Albula spp. 
Bonefish 
Description :  Bright iridescent silver, with 
greenish tinge on dorsal area; elongate 
upper jaw. 
Size :  Length generally up to about 18 
inches; may reach over 40 inches; weight 
generally up to 16 pounds. 
Habitat :  Sandy bottoms, usually over 
sand patches or channels in reef areas. 
Feeding :  Generally nocturnal; crus -
taceans, small fish. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, net, 
handline. 
Seasonality :  More taken December 
through April. 
Pāki‘i 
Bothus spp. 
Flounder 
Description :  Brownish coloration with 
irregular mottling, lower surface white or 
tan; coloration changes to match sub -
strate. 
Size :  Length up to 16 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 4 pounds. 
Habitat :  Sandy patches in shallow water. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; crustaceans and small 
fish. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, spear. 71 
Po‘opa‘a 
Cirrhitus pinnulatus 
Stocky hawkfish 
Description :  Brownish above fading to 
lighter below, with white mottlings; body 
and fins have red spots; head bluish white 
with brownish orange markings. 
Size :  Length up to 10 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 1 1⁄2pounds. 
Habitat :  Hides in crevices during the day; 
at night found in turbulent waters of surge 
zones, often on large rocks or coral heads. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; small fish 
and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, spear. 
Puhi 
Gymnothorax spp. 
Moray eel 
Description :  Coloration varies with 
species; generally brown (darker toward 
posterior) with numerous round or irregular 
light spots, depending on species; large 
fanglike teeth. 
Size :  Length up to 5 or 6 feet; most under 
2 feet; weight occasionally reaches 70 
pounds. 
Habitat :  Crevices and holes in rocky or 
reef areas; rarely exposed, except for 
head. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish and 
crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, pole and line, 
trap. 
Puhi ūhā 
Conger cinereus 
White eel, mustache conger, tohe 
Description :  Grayish brown on dorsal 
surface, fading to lighter below, alternating 
light and dark bars on body when feeding; 
well-developed pectoral fins are present. Size :  Length up to 5 feet; weight general -
ly up to 25 pounds. 
Habitat :  Crevices and holes in nearshore 
reef areas by day; moves in open on reef 
after dark. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; fish and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, pole and line, 
trap. 
Roi 
Cephalopholis argus 
Peacock grouper 
Description :  Purple brown with light blue 
spots; pale vertical bars present towards 
tail region, fins edged with yellow. 
Size :  Length up to 20 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Reefs and rocky areas at depths 
of about 10 to 40 fathoms, generally near 
ledges and crevices. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, trap, handline 
Introduced 1956 and 1961 from Society 
Islands. 
Uhu 
Scaridae 
Parrotfish 
Description :  Coloration varies with 
species, sex and age; males are generally 
more gaudy, with colors dominated by 
blues and greens, females are generally 
more bland with colors dominated by red -
dish browns or grays; teeth are fused 
together and resemble a beak. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet or more; weight 
generally up to 15 pounds. 
Habitat :  Rocky areas and coral reefs, 
usually more abundant at outer edge of 
reef. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; algae, crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small groups; juve -
niles tend to school. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, net. ‘Upāpalu 
Apogon spp. 
Cardinalfish 
Description :  Coloration varies with 
species; generally light red or brown with 
iridescent hues; dark horizontal bands 
present in some species. 
Size :  Length up to about 7 inches, 
depending on species; weight generally up 
to 1⁄4pound. 
Habitat :  Nearshore caves and crevices. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; small crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary when feeding.. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line 
`ū`ū 
Myripristis spp. 
Soldierfish, menpachi 
Description :  Bright red by day, lower 
sides become silvery at night. 
Size :  Length up to 14 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 1 pound. 
Habitat :  Inshore reef areas, congregating 
in caves and crevices during the day. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; plankton, crusta- 
ceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Spear, handline, net, 
trap. 
Seasonality :  Spawns late spring to mid- 
summer; generally more taken in late sum -
mer and early fall. 72 
CARANGIDS 
(Jacks and their allies) 
Akule, halalū 
Selar crumenophthalmus 
Bigeye scad, aji 
Description :  Silvery blue above fading to 
silvery white below, yellow tail fin; very 
large eyes. 
Size :  Length up to 15 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Mid- or surface waters along 
coast, or shallow banks near shore. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; small crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Large schools. 
Fishing methods :  Halalū (juveniles up to 
about 5 inches) taken with light tackle; 
akule are generally taken handlining at 
night, or by day with net or pole and line. 
Seasonality :  Spawn from about March 
through October, at which time they form 
large schools in shallow water; halalū 
.common about July to December 
An excellent food fish. 
Kāhala 
Seriola dumerili 
Greater amberjack 
Description :  Light metallic brown with 
purplish tinge; light yellow horizontal band 
extends from head to base of tail, fades 
after fish is caught; dark diagonal streak 
through eye. 
Size :  Length up to 6 feet; weight general -
ly up to 120 pounds. 
Habitat :  Deeper coastal waters, typically 
60 to 600 feet or more; lives near bottom; 
young often found around floating objects 
at sea. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish and 
squid. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small school. 
Fishing methods :  Caught mostly by fish -
ing over deep-sea ledges or drop offs; 
usually taken handlining offshore, but 
often come close enough to shore to be 
caught with baitcasting gear; occasionally 
by spear or trap. Kamanu 
Elagatis bipinnulatus 
Rainbow runner 
Description :  Dark blue above followed in 
succession down side by light blue stripe, 
yellow stripe, another light blue stripe; yel -
lowing silver below, yellow fins. 
Size :  Length up to 4 feet; weight general -
ly up to 10 pounds. 
Habitat :  Open water, usually near sur -
face; may be found with other fish around 
floating objects. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish and squid. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small school. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling with small 
lures or baits, by handline, or from shore 
with baitcasting gear. 
Considered an excellent food fish. 
Lai 
Scomberoides lysan 
Leatherback 
Description :  Slate blue above, fading to 
silvery below; fins may have yellowish 
tinge; leathery skin with small needle-like 
scales. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Inshore coastal waters, sheltered 
bays and harbors, brackish water areas 
near mouths of streams. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; smaller schooling fish -
es, especially mullet and nehu, crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Schools near the surface. 
Fishing methods :  Often caught by shore 
anglers casting bait or lures for young 
jacks; also by net; should be handled 
carefully because of sharp anal spines 
Not widely sought after for food; skin is 
valued for making trolling lures. ‘Ōpelu 
Decapterus macarellus 
Mackerel scad 
Description :  Bluish or greenish yellow 
above fading to silvery white below, dark 
spot on upper part of gill cover. 
Size :  Length up to 20 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 2 pounds. 
Habitat :  Near coast in surface and mid- 
water; juveniles school far out at sea. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; plankton, 
especially small crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Caught by handline at 
night, and with special lift nets during the 
day. 
Seasonality :  Spawns from about March 
to the middle of August; juveniles enter 
coastal areas in late fall and winter 
Considered an excellent food fish; also 
popular as bait and live chum for large 
tuna, marlin, and other predators. 
‘Omaka 
Atule mate 
Yellowtail scad 
Description :  Silvery body with greenish 
yellow tinge, marked with 9 or 10 darker 
vertical bars; yellow tail, black spot behind 
eye on edge of gill cover. 
Size :  Length up to one foot; weight gener -
ally up to 3⁄4pound. 
Habitat :  Protected bays and estuaries; 
juveniles very abundant in fall around 
floating objects, especially jellyfish; not 
found in open sea. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; plankton, mostly small 
fish and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Mostly taken with light 
tackle from shore and piers; occasionally 
taken with net. 
Seasonality :  More common March to 
October. 
Considered an excellent food fish. 73 
ULUA 
Like other carangids, ulua are fast-swim -
ming predators, feeding on a variety of fish 
and crustaceans.  Juveniles, known collec -
tively as pāpio, tend to live close to shore 
for protection, then move toward deeper 
waters as they get older.  Ulua are 
extremely popular gamefish, and the flesh 
is very good to eat. 
Ulua aukea 
Caranx ignobilis 
White ulua, giant trevally 
Description :  Pale olive above with green -
ish tinge around head, white sides, yellow 
anal fin; color varies to darker shades, 
depending on fish's temperament and time 
of day; breast nearly scaleless except for 
patch of about 10 scales in middle. 
Size :  Length over 5 feet; weight generally 
up to 120 pounds. 
Habitat :  Papio caught near shore, adult 
fish found over nearshore reefs; often hid -
ing in caves during the day. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal, but occasionally 
caught by day; fish, octopus, crustaceans. 
Schooling :  School; when large (over 30 
pounds) generally solitary or in pairs. 
Fishing methods :  Casting from rocky 
shores and ledges; handline, trap, spear. 
Seasonality :  Young common in summer, 
adults common year round. 
An excellent food fish, the white ulua is 
widely considered to be the ultimate 
shoreline gamefish. 
Ulua lā‘uli 
Caranx lugubris 
Black trevally 
Description :  Dark brown, with almost 
black head; may tend toward a creamy or 
dusky shade; breast completely scaled, 
scutes distinct; definite notch above snout 
in profile. 
Size :  Length over 3 feet. 
Habitat :  Outer reef channels. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; fish and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Form large schools when 
feeding. Fishing methods :  Casting from rocky 
shores and ledges. 
Seasonality :  Uncommon year round in 
main Hawaiian Islands. 
Ulua kihikihi 
Alectis ciliaris 
Threadfin jack, kagami ulua 
Description :  Adults dusky white, often 
darker along dorsal area, with bluish, 
greenish, and yellowish hues; juveniles sil -
very blue above and bright silver below, 
with a diamond shaped body and long 
trailing filaments extending from dorsal 
and anal fins; as fish gets older body 
becomes more elongate, and filaments 
begin to disappear. 
Size :  Length up to 40 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 40 pounds. 
Habitat :  Juveniles often found in harbors 
and other sheltered waters, upon reaching 
maturity move to deeper and more open 
water, often taken from depths of 60 to 
200 feet. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; mostly crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small school. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Ulua 
Uraspis helvola 
Cottonmouth jack, dobe ulua 
Description :  Dark dusky color, easily 
identified by looking inside mouth; tongue 
and roof of mouth are white, back of 
mouth and throat and gill areas are bluish 
black. 
Size :  Length up to 20 inches; weight gen -
erally up to 3 pounds. 
Habitat :  Dropoff areas, generally 100 to 
200 feet. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; small fish and crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. Pake ulua 
Caranx sexfasciatus 
Bigeye trevally, menpachi ulua, sasa 
Description :  Dark blue-green to gold 
above, yellow-green to silver below, upper 
lobe of tail fin dark with black tip; juveniles 
have four to seven dark vertical bands. 
Size :  Length usually under 3 feet; weight 
generally up to 15 pounds. 
Habitat :  Young fish found in brackish water 
areas out to deeper coastal waters; adult 
fish live along rocky shores in turbulent 
water over reefs. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal;  fish and crustaceans 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Handline; juveniles 
taken with pole and line. 
Seasonality :  More abundant spring to mid- 
summer. 
‘Ōmilu 
Caranx melampygus 
Bluefin trevally, hoshi ulua 
Description :  Juveniles silvery blue above 
fading to silver below, with yellow pectoral 
fins; as fish ages bluish-black spots begin 
to appear all over, and body changes to 
neon blue; fins, especially first dorsal, also 
blue; breast completely scaled. 
Size :  Length up to 3 feet; weight general -
ly up to 20 pounds. 
Habitat :  Juveniles found in shallow bays 
and estuaries; medium sized fish (6 to 20 
inches) taken over reefs; adults often 
move in close to shore by following chan -
nels in coral reefs, swimming over the reef 
by day. 
Feeding :  Mostly diurnal; small fish. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small groups. 
Fishing methods :  Usually taken with sur -
fcasting gear; trolling, spear, net, handline, 
trap; juveniles taken with pole and line. Adult 
Juvenile 74 
Ulua pa‘opa‘o 
Gnathanodon speciosus 
Golden trevally 
Description :  Creamy yellow with silvery 
and bluish hues, marked by series of 8 to 
12 darker greenish vertical bands; jaws of 
adults contain no teeth. 
Size :  Length up to 3 feet; weight general -
ly up to 10 pounds. 
Habitat :  Generally found in sandy chan -
nels and bars close to shore. 
Feeding :  Uncertain; fish and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line, net. 
Seasonality :  Uncommon year round. 
Ulua 
Carangoides orthogrammus 
Yellowspot trevally, island jack, papa 
Description :  Silvery blue above fading to 
silvery white below, bluish and golden 
hues on fins; sides marked with a few 
lemon-colored round spots, which tend to 
fade as fish gets older. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Near shore. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small fish and crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small groups. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, spear, pole 
and line. 
Butaguchi 
Pseudocaranx dentex 
Buta ulua, thicklipped jack 
Description :  Dark silver above fading to 
light silver below, dark spot at upper edge 
of gill cover; juveniles have yellow horizon -
tal streak extending through eye and along 
side of body to base of tail; thick fleshy 
lips, pointed snout, and concave depres -
sion in front of eyes. SCOMBRIDS 
(Tunas and their allies) 
Scombrids are carnivorous fishes that feed 
on squids, crustaceans and other small 
fishes.  They have well-contoured torpedo- 
shaped bodies, the most perfect shape for 
high-speed swimming.  The anterior dorsal 
fin can be completely tucked into a groove 
on the back.  Scombrids often live in large 
schools, and many species are known to 
migrate over long distances. Size :  Length up to 4 feet; weight general -
ly up to 40 pounds. 
Habitat :  Bays and coastal waters. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish, 
crustaceans and octopus. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
‘Ahi 
Thunnus albacares 
Yellowfin tuna 
Description:  Blackish blue above fading to 
white below; faint yellow stripe extends 
from eye to tail, soft dorsal and anal fins 
and finlets bright yellow; dorsal and anal 
fins lengthen with age. 
Size:  Weight up to 300 pounds. 
Habitat:  Open water, generally found over 
deepwater banks and submarine ledge 
areas at depths to 1000 fathoms; young 
fish often travel near the surface. 
Feeding:  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish, 
squid and crustaceans. 
Schooling:  Schools. 
Fishing methods:  Longline, pole and line, 
trolling, handline. 
Seasonality:  Adults more abundant late 
spring through early fall; juveniles abun -
dant fall and winter. 
‘Ahi palaha 
Thunnus alalunga 
Albacore, tombo 
Description :  Blackish blue above fading 
to silvery below; long pectoral fins which 
extend beyond the soft dorsal and anal 
fins. Size :  Weight up to 80 pounds or more, 
but few exceed 40 pounds. 
Habitat :  Open water, generally staying 
below 60 fathoms during the day, then 
moves close to surface by night. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish, 
squid and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Longline, handline. 
Seasonality :  More abundant during sum -
mer months. 
‘Ahi po‘o nui 
Thunnus obesus 
Bigeye tuna 
Description :  Blackish blue above fading 
to silvery below, yellowish finlets; closely 
resembles ahi, but has larger eyes. 
Size :  Weight generally up to 150 pounds, 
but some have been known to reach 300 
pounds. 
Habitat :  Open water, generally staying 
below 60 to 70 fathoms by day, then mov -
ing closer to surface by night. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish, 
squid and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, longline. 
Seasonality :  More abundant late fall 
through late spring. 
Aku 
Katsuwonus pelamis 
Skipjack tuna 
Description :  Dark metallic blue above, 
light dusky blue below, with four or five 
dark purplish longitudinal stripes on side of 
belly. 
Size :  Weight averages about 18 to 22 
pounds during the summer, 5 to 12 
pounds during the rest of the year. 
Habitat :  Generally found in waters 100 
fathoms and deeper. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish, squid and crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Pole and line (aku 
boat type), trolling. 
Seasonality :  Taken year round, but most 
common during spring and summer. 75 
Kawakawa 
Euthynnus affinis 
Wavyback skipjack 
Description :  Dark blue or bluegreen 
above fading to silver below; about 12 
dark wavy marks on dorsal area. 
Size :  Weight up to about 20 pounds, but 
most are around 4 or 5 pounds. 
Habitat :  Open water, but somewhat close 
to shoreline, generally in depths less than 
100 fathoms; often found over dropoffs, or 
in association with aku; young may enter 
bays and harbors. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; small 
fish, squid and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Schools. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, pole and line. 
Seasonality :  Present throughout year, 
but most abundant during summer when 
the fish come fairly close to shore in large 
schools. 
Ono 
Acanthocybium solanderi 
Wahoo 
Description :  Dark blue above fading to 
silver below, with about 30 purplish-gray 
vertical bars on sides that flash bright blue 
when the fish is fighting a hook. 
Size :  Weight up to 100 pounds, average 
30 to 40 pounds. 
Habitat :  Roams the surface waters of the 
open sea, usually over deep-sea ledges; 
often found near floating logs and other 
objects. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish, squid and crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, longline. 
Seasonality :  More abundant late spring 
through fall. BILLFISH 
Billfish are carnivorous fishes of the open 
ocean, feeding on squid and relatively 
large fishes.  They are characterized by 
the presence of a spear, or bill, which is 
actually an extension of the upper jaw. 
The bill helps streamline the fish, and is 
often used to slash at schools of prey; the 
billfish then feeds on the wounded fish. 
A‘u 
Tetrapterus audax 
Striped marlin, nairagi 
Description :  Royal blue above fading to 
silvery below, with lavender or pale blue 
vertical stripes on sides; dorsal and anal 
fins cobalt blue; high pointed dorsal fin. 
Size :  Weight up to 150 pounds or more; 
most average about 25 to 100 pounds. 
Habitat :  Pelagic. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish and squid. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, longline. 
Seasonality :  Taken mostly in spring and 
fall. 
A‘u 
Makaira nigricans 
Pacific blue marlin, kajiki 
Description :  Cobalt blue above fading to 
silvery below, with pale blue vertical 
stripes on sides and blue patches on dor -
sal area and tail. 
Size :  Weight averages about 300 to 400 
pounds, but some exceeding 1400 pounds 
have been taken. 
Habitat :  Generally taken over bank areas 
where baitfish are abundant, and over off -
shore ledges where bottom drops off from 
100 to 1000 fathoms or more. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; mainly aku and other 
tunas. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, longline. 
Seasonality :  Most abundant during sum -
mer. A‘u 
Makaira indica 
Black marlin, hida 
Description :  Variable coloration; most are 
dark slate blue above fading to silvery 
below; may have pale blue stripes or blue 
patches on sides that fade quickly after 
death; pectoral fins don't fold against body. 
Size :  Most average about 200 pounds, 
but have been known to reach 1800 
pounds. 
Habitat :  Pelagic. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish and squid. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, longline 
A‘u 
Tetrapterus angustirostris 
Shortbill spearfish, hebi 
Description :  Deep metallic blue above 
fading to silvery and white below; no sig -
nificant markings; upper jaw extends on a 
short distance beyond the lower jaw. 
Size :  Average weight about 20 to 40 
pounds, rarely exceeds 100 pounds. 
Habitat :  Pelagic. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; squid and small fish. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, longline. 
Seasonality :  Most abundant during win -
ter and early spring. 
A‘u ku 
Xiphias gladius 
Broadbill swordfish, shutome 
Description :  Coloration varies from 
metallic purplish to blackish brown, but 
generally dark brown, with silvery irides -
cence below; pelvic fins are absent, dorsal 
fin not retractable. 
Size :  Average weight about 200 to 300 
pounds; large fish may exceed 1000 
pounds. 
Habitat :  Pelagic. 
Feeding :  Nocturnal; fish and squid. 
Schooling :  Solitary or in pairs. 
Fishing methods :  Longline, handline. 76 
A‘u lepe 
Istiophorus platypterus 
Sailfish 
Description :  Body coloration dark steely 
blue above fading to silvery white below, 
with pale purple vertical bars on sides; sail 
cobalt blue to purple with numerous small 
blue spots. 
Size :  Average weight about 30 to 50 
pounds. 
Habitat :  Generally near submerged 
shoals fairly close to shore. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; small fish and squid. 
Schooling :  Usually solitary; may occur in 
small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, longline. 
Seasonality :  Uncommon year round. 
Mahimahi 
Coryphaena hippurus 
Dorado 
Description :  Brilliant green and yellow 
dotted with phosphorescent blue, with pur -
plish blue dorsal fin; colors change rapidly 
when fighting and just before death. 
Males have an almost vertical head profile, 
females are more sloping. 
Size :  Average weight 20 to 30 pounds; 
occasionally 70 pounds. 
Habitat :  Open ocean, often seen close to 
surface near schools of flyingfish, or 
around floating objects. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; squid 
and small fish, especially flyingfish. 
Schooling :  School. 
Fishing methods :  Trolling, handline, 
longline. 
Seasonality :  Small fish (up to 5 pounds) 
common in summer, large fish (30 to 40 
pounds) more plentiful in late winter and 
early spring. DEEPWATER SNAPPERS 
Snappers are voracious carnivores, and 
the  species described here are generally 
found in the deeper waters of Hawai‘i, up 
to 150 fathoms (900 ft), as opposed to the 
nearshore species described earlier.  Most 
deepwater snappers are a uniform bright 
color, usually with red or yellow hues.  A 
few species have color patterns. 
Kalekale 
Pristipomoides sieboldii 
Kalikali, von Siebold's snapper 
Description :  Light lavender above fading 
to lighter below; scales above lateral line 
have pale-blue spots in center which form 
lengthwise lines; margin of dorsal fin 
orange with light lavender; tail fin dark 
lavender with light margin. 
Size :  Length up to 2 feet; weight general -
ly up to 4 pounds. 
Habitat :  Deep waters, usually 80 to 120 
fathoms. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish, 
squid and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  School. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Seasonality :  Most caught during late fall 
and winter. 
Lehe 
Aphareus rutilans 
Lehi, ironjaw snapper 
Description :  Brick red above fading to 
silvery below; dorsal fin has yellow spot on 
margins and yellow border; tail has yellow -
ish hues. 
Size :  Length up to 3 feet or more; weight 
generally up to 25 pounds. 
Habitat :  Deep waters, usually around 100 
fathoms. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and nocturnal; fish, 
squid and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  School. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Seasonality :  Most caught during late fall 
and winter. ‘Ōpakapaka 
Pristipomoides filamentosus 
Pink snapper 
Description :  Light violet brown above 
fading to dusky white below; pectoral fins 
yellowish. 
Size :  Length up to 3 feet; weight general -
ly up to 18 pounds. 
Habitat :  Deep waters, usually 40 to 100 
fathoms; most abundant over rocky bottom 
dropoffs. 
Feeding :  Diurnal and noctunal; fish, squid 
and sea cucumbers. 
Schooling :  School. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Seasonality :  Most caught during winter 
months. 
Ukikiki 
Pristipomoides zonatus 
Brigham's snapper, gindai 
Description :  Pinkish red with four wide 
vertical yellow bands; dorsal, pectoral and 
caudal fins yellow. 
Size :  Length up to 20 inches or more; 
weight generally up to 4 pounds. 
Habitat :  Deep water, usually 60 to 100 
fathoms. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish, squid and crus -
taceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small schools. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Uku 
Aprion virescens 
Gray snapper 
Description :  Uniform grayish blue, with 
dorsal area more bluish than below; dard 
blue towards head; three dark spots near 
base of dorsal fin. 
Size :  Length up to 3 feet or more; aver -
age weight about 4 to 8 pounds. Male 
Female DOLPHINFISH 77 
FRESHWATER 
SPORTFISH  (Introduced) GROUPERS Habitat :  Relatively shallow water com -
pared with other snappers, usually less 
than 60 fathoms; rocky bottom areas out -
side of reef, deep rocky areas near shore. 
Feeding :  Generally nocturnal; fish, squid 
and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary or small groups; large 
aggregates when spawning. 
Fishing methods :  Handline, spear. 
Seasonality :  Most caught during late 
spring and early summer when spawning. 
‘Ula‘ula 
Etelis carbunculus 
‘Ehu, red snapper 
Description :  Red above fading to silvery 
pink below; interior of mouth is pink. 
Size :  Weight generally up to 9 pounds. 
Habitat :  Deep waters, usually 100 to 150 
fathoms. 
Feeding :  Generally diurnal; fish, squid 
and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Aggregates. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Seasonality :  Most caught during winter. 
‘Ula‘ula koa‘e 
Etelis coruscans 
Longtail red snapper, onaga 
Description :  Red above fading to silvery 
pink below; dorsal and tail fins red; inside 
of mouth red; caudal fin lobes are elon -
gate, upper lobe longer than lower. 
Size :  Weight generally up to 35 pounds. 
Habitat :  Taken over offshore dropoffs, 
usually in water 100 to 150 fathoms. 
Feeding :  Generally diurnal; fish, squid 
and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  School. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Seasonality :  Most caught during winter. Hāpu‘u 
Epinephelus quernus 
Seale's grouper 
Description :  Dark purplish brown with 
small white spots; spots become less dis -
tinct as fish grows larger. 
Size :  Length up to 4 feet; weight general -
ly up to 50 pounds. 
Habitat :  Deep water, generally 50 to over 
120 fathoms. 
Feeding :  Diurnal; fish and crustaceans. 
Schooling :  Solitary. 
Fishing methods :  Handline. 
Largemouth Bass 
Micropterus salmoides 
Description :  Coloration varies with loca -
tion, generally dark green above fading to 
white below; may have faint horizontal 
band along sides (more distinct in young 
fish); jaw extends back beyond posterior 
margin of eye; dorsal fin deeply notched 
between spiny and soft portions. 
Size :  Weight ranges up to 10 pounds in 
Hawai‘i; state record 9 lbs 9.4 oz (1992); 
world record 22 lbs 4 oz (1932, Georgia). 
Distribution :  In Hawai‘i found on the 
islands of Kaua‘i, O‘ahu and Hawai‘i. 
Habitat :  Usually found in sluggish waters, 
occur primarily in reservoirs in Hawaii; pre -
fer submerged logs, weeds or other cover 
near banks. 
Feeding :  Young feed on crustaceans, 
insects and small fishes; adults feed on 
live fishes, crayfish and frogs. Life history :  In Hawai‘i spawning season 
occurs during the winter and spring and is 
limited to reservoir habitats; male builds a 
circular nest in 3 to 4 feet of water; male 
guards the nest and defends eggs and 
young until they leave. 
Fishing methods :  Light spinning or bait -
casting gear is recommended, with sur -
face or deep running lures, such as plastic 
worms, crankbaits or spinnerbaits; effec -
tive live baits include puntat, tilapia, cray -
fish and worms. 
Introduced to Hawai‘i in 1896. 
Smallmouth Bass 
Micropterus dolomieui 
Description :  Coloration varies with loca -
tion, generally dark green to olive brown 
above fading to white below; sides marked 
with vertical bars and dark mottlings; jaw 
does not extend back beyond eye; spiny 
portion of dorsal fin lower than on large -
mouth bass, and not as deeply notched. 
Size :  Weight ranges up to 4 pounds in 
Hawai‘i; state record 4.98 lbs (2004); world 
record 11 lbs 15 oz (1955, Kentucky). 
Distribution :  In Hawai‘i found on the 
islands of Kaua‘i and O‘ahu. 
Habitat :  Found in cool flowing streams 
and reservoirs fed by such streams. 
Feeding :  Young feed on crustaceans, 
insects and small fishes; adults feed pri -
marily on live fishes and crayfish. 
Life history :  In Hawai‘i spawning season 
occurs during the spring and is limited to 
stream habitats; male builds a hollow nest 
in sand and guards the young, viciously 
attacking any intruder. 
Fishing methods :  Small spinners or pop -
pers are effective lures; live baits include 
crayfish or worms. 
Introduced to Hawai‘i in 1953. 
Channel Catfish 
Ictalurus punctatus 
Description :  Bluish olive to gray above 
fading to white below, with dark spots 
scattered along sides; older males 
become dark in color and lose spots; long 
barbels surrounding mouth; deeply forked 
tail. 
Size :  Generally under 10 pounds, but 
have unoffically exceeded 50 pounds in 
Hawai‘i; state record 43 lbs 13 oz (1974); 
world record 58 lbs (1964, South 
Carolina). 78 
Distribution :  In Hawai‘i found on the 
islands of Kaua‘i and O‘ahu. 
Habitat :  Occur primarily in reservoirs in 
Hawai‘i. 
Feeding :  Feeds primarily on small fish, 
crustaceans, clams and snails. 
Life history :  Spawning occurs in late 
spring; eggs are laid in jelly-like masses in 
holes and crevices, and guarded by the 
male; hatching occurs after about a week, 
and the male continues to guard the 
young. 
Fishing methods :  Crankbaits or large 
spinnerbaits are the most effective lures; a 
catfish weighing 51 pounds (unofficially) 
was taken from the Wahiawa Reservoir on 
a spoon; other baits include tilapia, cray -
fish, aku belly, liver and various stinkbaits. 
Introduced to Hawai‘i in 1958. 
Rainbow Trout 
Oncorhynchus mykiss 
Description :  Bluish or olive green above 
fading to silvery below, with broad pink lat -
eral stripe; back, sides, dorsal and caudal 
fins marked with small dark spots. 
Size :  Generally under 3 pounds, but have 
unofficially reached 8 pounds in Hawai ‘i; 
state record 5 lbs 10 oz (1991); world 
record 42 lbs 3 oz (1970, Alaska). 
Distribution :  In Hawai‘i found on the 
islands of Kaua‘i and Hawai‘i. 
Habitat :  Prefers cold water streams with 
moderate flow. 
Feeding :  Young feed on small insects 
and crustaceans; adults feed on fish eggs, 
minnows and other small fish (including 
other trout). 
Life history :  Limited spawning occurs in 
Hawai‘i because water temperatures are 
too high; what spawning does occur takes 
place from about November to February; 
annual stockings of the Kokee region on 
Kaua‘i are accomplished with eggs from 
California, hatched and raised at Sand 
Island, O‘ahu. 
Fishing methods :  Small spinners or flies 
are effective lures; salmon eggs are used 
with good success. 
Introduced to Hawai‘i in 1920. Tucunare 
Cichla ocellaris 
Description :  Yellow with a green back 
and white abdomen; vertical bars along 
sides; during spawning season yellow 
color intensifies, and males develop a 
large hump above the head; prominent 
black spot on caudal fin. 
Size :  Weight averages about 2 to 3 
pounds; state record 9 lbs 4.2 oz (1990); 
world record 27 lbs (1994, Brazil) 
Distribution :  In Hawai‘i found on the 
islands of Kaua‘i, O‘ahu, Maui and Hawai‘i. 
Habitat :  Generally found in the larger 
reservoirs of the state. 
Feeding :  Feeds exclusively on small fish, 
especially threadfin shad, mosquito fish, 
tilapia and bluegill. 
Life history :  Spawning in Hawai‘i occurs 
from about March to September; eggs are 
laid on rocks or other hard objects and 
guarded by one or both parents; hatching 
takes place within four days, and parents 
guard the young; presence of at least one 
parent is essential for survival of young, so 
fishermen are urged not to disturb spawn -
ing fish which are often visible near shore. 
Fishing methods :  Lures include jigs and 
torpedo-shaped lures that resemble min -
nows; the only effective live bait is mosqui -
tofish, mollies or tilapia. 
Introduced to Hawai‘i in 1957. 
Oscar 
Astronotus ocellatus 
Description :  Brightly colored with irregu -
lar red markings on a dark brown body; 
prominent black spot surrounded by red 
ring at base of caudal fin. 
Size :  Weight reaches 3 pounds or more; 
state record 2 lbs 6 oz (1976). 
Distribution :  In Hawai‘i found on the 
island of O‘ahu. 
Habitat :  Prefers quiet shallow water. 
Feeding :  Feeds on small fish, crayfish, 
worms and insect larvae. 
Life history :  Spawning in Hawai‘i occurs 
from about March to September; oscar 
pairs excavate a circular nest in shallow 
water, where eggs are deposited; both 
parents guard the nest. Fishing methods :  Minnow-like lures are 
effective; live baits include worms, crayfish 
and mosquitofish. 
Introduced to Hawai‘i in 1951. 
Bluegill Sunfish 
Lepomis macrochirus 
Description :  Coloration varies somewhat 
with sex and age, generally olive green 
above with blue or purplish sheen along 
sides; breeding males may have more 
blue and orange on sides; faint vertical 
bars along sides; opercular flap is dark 
blue or black, and prominent dark blotch is 
present at posterior base of dorsal fin. 
Size :  Generally 4 to 6 inches in length, 
may reach 14 inches; state record 8 oz 
(2000); world record 4 lb 12 oz (1950, 
Alabama). 
Distribution :  In Hawai‘i found on the 
islands of Kaua‘i, O‘ahu, Maui and Hawai‘i. 
Habitat :  Usually found in lakes, ponds, 
reservoirs and sluggish streams, occur pri -
marily in reservoirs in Hawai‘i; prefer deep 
weed beds. 
Feeding :  Young feed on crustaceans, 
insects and worms; adults feed on snails, 
small crayfish, insects, worms and small 
minnows; feed mostly in early morning and 
late afternoon and evening. 
Life history :  In Hawai‘i spawning season 
occurs in winter and spring; male builds a 
circular nest in sandy areas 3 to 6 feet 
deep; after fertilizing eggs male chases 
female away and guards the nest until fry 
disperse. 
Fishing methods :  Worms are the most 
effective live bait; lures include flies and 
small spinners. 
Introduced to Hawai‘i in 1946. 
Illustrations :  National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, Les Hata / Hawaii Fishing News, 
Division of Aquatic Resources, Waikiki Aquarium State records as of Feb 2006; 
source Hawaii Fishing News. 79 The Department of Land and Natural Resources receives financial support under the Federal Aid in 
Sport Fish and Wildlife Restoration and other federal programs.  Under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act 
of 1990, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and the 
laws of the U.S. Department of the Interior and the State of Hawai‘i prohibit discrimination on the 
basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, and disability.  If you believe that you have been 
discriminated against in any program, activity or facility, or if you desire information, please write to: 
Affirmative Action Officer, Personnel Office, Department of Land and Natural Resources, 1151 
Punchbowl Street, Rm. 231, Honolulu, HI 96813, or the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, Civil Rights 
Branch, 4040 N. Fairfax Drive, Suite 300, Arlington, VA  22203. Suggested Reading 
Dunn-Rankin, Peter.  Fishing the Reefs. Honolulu: Mutual Publishing Co., 1994 
Hosaka, Edward.  Shore Fishing in Hawaii. Hilo: Petroglyph Press, 1944, 1973 
MacKellar, Jean Scott.  Hawaii Goes Fishing. Tokyo: Chas. E. Tuttle Co., 1968 
Rizzuto, Jim.  Fishing Hawaii Style. Honolulu: Fishing Hawaii Style, Ltd., 1983 
Rizzuto, Jim.  Fishing Hawaii Style, Vol. 2. Honolulu: Fishing Hawaii Style, Ltd., 1987 
Rizzuto, Jim.  Fishing Hawaii Style, Vol. 3. Honolulu: Fishing Hawaii Style, Ltd., 1990 
Rizzuto, Jim.  Modern Hawaiian Gamefishing. Honolulu: Univ. of Hawai‘i Press, 1977 
Sakamoto, Mike.  Hawaii’ s Mike Sakamoto Presents 101 Fishing Tips. Honolulu: Bess Press, 2003 
Sakamoto, Mike.  How to Hook and Cookbook. Honolulu: Bess Press, 1988 
Sakamoto, Mike.  More How to Hook and Cookbook. Honolulu: Bess Press, 1994 
Sakamoto, Mike.  Pacific Shore Fishing. Honolulu: Univ. of Hawai‘i Press, 1985 
Titcomb, Margaret.  Native Use of Fish in Hawai‘i. Honolulu: Univ. of Hawai‘i Press, 1952, 1972 
Hawai‘i Department of Health, 1988.  Fish Poisoning in Hawaii. 
Hawaii Fishing News. (Honolulu)  Monthly publication.
