Source URL: https://elections.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Office of Elections Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii Office of Elections Search this site Search button X icon Facebook icon Youtube icon Instagram icon 中文 Chinese Ilocano Tagalog Home About Us Contact Us Calendar Boards and Commissions Boards of Registration Elections Commission Reapportionment Statewide Elections Accessibility Needs Advisory Committee Reports Register to Vote Registration Register Online to Vote Voter Registration Drives Voting 2024 General Election Voter Guide Voter Guide Interactive General Voter Guide PDF General English Voter Guide PDF General Chinese Voter Guide PDF General Hawaiian Voter Guide PDF General Ilocano Voter Guide PDF General Tagalog Voting in Hawaii Absentee Voting Contest Schedule County Elections Divisions Election Security Provisional Voting 2024 Primary Election Provisional Ballot Dispositions Political Parties Replacement Ballot Rumors Vs. Facts Volunteer Voter Service Centers and Ballot Drop Boxes Candidates Become a Candidate Candidate Reports Nonpartisan Candidates in Partisan Contests Presidential Electoral College Presidential Elections Results Resources Archives Campaign Signs Regulations Campaign Spending Commission Cast Your Vote in Comfort Districts and Precincts Elected Officials & Terms of Office Election Laws Election Objections Hawaii Votes Program Maps Registration and Turnout Statistics News Newsletters News Releases Proclamations Online Voter Registration System Check or Update your Voter Registration Sign up for Ballot Notifications Voter Accessibility Results Aloha from the Office of Elections! Our Mission: To provide secure, accessible, and convenient election services to all citizens statewide. 2024 General Election Resources Voter Guide Voter Service Center and Ballot Drop Box Locations Proposed Amendments to the Hawaii State Constitution Absentee Ballot Application Request a Replacement Ballot News and Announcements State House District 1 Proclamation 2024 Election Proclamation Political Parties Set for the 2024 Elections State Senate District 5 Proclamation Election Officials Urge Voters Impacted by the Maui Wildfires to Update their Voter Registration For more news, click here . 2024 Elections Primary: Saturday, August 10, 2024 General: Tuesday, November 5, 2024 Election Calendar Nov 13 Wed 4:30 pm Deadline to cure a deficient ret... Deadline to cure a deficient ret... Nov 13 @ 4:30 pm Deadline for voters to cure a deficient return envelope for the General Election with the County Elections Division. (HRS §11-106) Nov 25 Mon 4:30 pm Deadline to file election object... Deadline to file election object... Nov 25 @ 4:30 pm Deadline to file a complaint on contests for cause in the General Election with the Hawaii State Supreme Court. (HRS §11-174.5) Dec 17 Tue 2:00 pm Electoral College Electoral College Dec 17 @ 2:00 pm The Electoral College will be held at the Hawaii State Capitol where the electors will cast their votes for president and vice president. (3 U.S.C §7) Mar 5 Wed all-day Deadline to disqualify parties Deadline to disqualify parties Mar 5 all-day Deadline to determine which political parties will continue to be qualified for the 2026 Elections. (HRS §11-65) View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Hawaii Elections Explained Connect with Us State of Hawaii, Office of Elections 1 week ago A voter service center is voting location that provides services for your last-minute voter needs. If you need to register to vote or cast your vote in person, the voter service center is for you. Find a location in your area at elections.hawaii.gov. ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email State of Hawaii, Office of Elections 2 weeks ago Keep tabs on the status of your ballot. Sign up now for ballot tracking alerts at elections.hawaii.gov. To get started, click 'Sign up for Ballot Notifications'. ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email State of Hawaii, Office of Elections 3 weeks ago Voter service centers are now open. Your one-stop shop for your last-minute voting needs. Find a location in your area at elections.hawaii.gov. ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email State of Hawaii, Office of Elections 4 weeks ago Check out the Digital Voter Guide to view candidate statements and photos, and learn more about the ballot questions. Find the guide at elections.hawaii.gov. ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email State of Hawaii, Office of Elections 1 month ago Deadline approaching. If you are away from your Hawaii mailing address, we need to know where to send your ballot. Submit an Absentee Ballot Application by October 29. Applications are available at your nearest library or post office, or ready to print at elections.hawaii.gov. ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email Interact Contact Us Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Requirements Browser Requirements Adobe Acrobat Reader DC List 808-453-8683 800-442-8683 [email protected] Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://digitalvoterguide.hawaii.gov/wp-content/themes/hawaii-elections/assets/pdf/general_digital_voter_guide_en_US.pdf) ---
General ElectionGeneral Election
VOTERVOTER
GUIDEGUIDE20242024  HawaiiHawaiiGeneralGeneral2024 VOTER GUIDE  
2General ElectionGeneral Election
On behalf of the State of Hawaii, Oﬃ   ce of Elections, we are excited to present 
the 2024 V oter Guide! This valuable resource is a ﬁ  rst for Hawaii voters, made 
possible by the passing of Act 115 during the 2023 Legislative Session. Thank you 
to everyone who has advocated for and contributed to its creation.
As a registered voter, you can expect to receive your ballot in the mail about 18 
days prior to Election Day. Be sure to check that your voter registration is current 
to ensure that your ballot is properly delivered. If you have moved or changed 
your mailing address since the last election, you must update your registration. 
Also, a reminder that ballots need to be received, not postmarked, by 7:00 PM on 
Election Day.
Be assured that we are committed to conducting safe, secure, and transparent 
elections for Hawaii residents and we thank you for participating in the 
democratic process.
V ery truly yours,
Scott T. NagoA/l.alt7ohaA MESSAGE FROM  THE CHIEF ELECTION OFFICER02
A MESSAGE FROM THE 
CHIEF ELECTION OFFICER
03
WHAT IS THE VOTER 
GUIDE?
03
MARK YOUR CALENDAR
03
VOTER REGISTRATION
04
VOTING BY MAIL
04
COMPLETING YOUR MAIL 
BALLOT
04
RETURNING YOUR MAIL 
BALLOT
04
PROCESSING YOUR 
BALLOT
04
TRACK YOUR BALLOT
04
VIEW ELECTION RESULTSVOTERVOTER
GUIDEGUIDE20242024  HawaiiHawaii
A MESSAGE FROM  THE CHIEF ELECTION OFFICER
2024 VOTER GUIDE  General ElectionGeneral Election
 2024 VOTER GUIDE  
333The V oter Guide is published by the State of Hawaii, Oﬃ   ce of Elections to ensure you have 
information about the elections process and the contests you’ll be voting on. The guide includes 
information on voter registration, key dates, and resources like how to track your ballot and 
accessible voting. Additionally, the Oﬃ   ce of Elections compiles statements and photos submitted 
by the candidates running for oﬃ   ce.
How are the statements and photos compiled?
Every candidate has the opportunity to provide a short statement and photo when they ﬁ  le to run 
for oﬃ   ce. The statement must be less than 150 words, and candidates are oﬀ  ered the following 
guidance: Treat your statement as a resume; oﬀ  er your vision and be positive; think of what you 
want to accomplish if elected; and avoid criticism of opponents.
The statements and photos are published in the guide as provided by the candidates. Also 
published will be the candidate’s ballot name, legal name, political aﬃ   liation, and contact 
information. If the candidate does not provide a statement or photo, the phrase ‘No Statement 
Submitted’ or ‘No Photo Submitted’ will appear next to their candidate information.WHAT IS THE VOTER GUIDE?
2024 General Election
• October 18: Look for your General Election ballot packet to be delivered in the mail.
• October 22: V oter Service Centers are open through Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit elections.hawaii.gov for locations, dates, and hours.
• October 28: Deadline to register to vote using a paper V oter Registration Application for the 
General Election by 4:30 PM.
•  October 29: Deadline to request an absentee ballot by 4:30 PM.
• November 5: General Election. V oted ballots must be received by 7:00 PM.MARK YOUR CALENDAR04
VOTER SERVICE CENTERS
05
ACCESSIBLE VOTING
05
CAMPAIGN SPENDING
05
ETHICS COMMISSION
06
YOUR VOTING RIGHTS
06
LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE
07
COUNTY ELECTIONS 
DIVISIONS
07
CONTACT US
08-78
CANDIDATE STATEMENTS
79-91
PROPOSED AMENDMENTSWho is eligible to register to vote? 
Y ou must be a U.S. citizen, a Hawaii resident, 
and at least 18 years old. If you are at least 16 
years old, you can pre-register to vote and 
you will automatically be registered when you 
turn 18 years old. 
What’s the quickest way to register?  
Online! With your Hawaii Driver License or 
Hawaii State ID, get registered in a matter of 
minutes at elections.hawaii.gov. If you don’t 
have a Hawaii ID, a printable application is 
available through the website or at post oﬃ   ces 
and libraries. 
How do I declare my party aﬃ   liation? 
Y ou’ll notice that when you register to vote, 
you are not asked for your political party 
aﬃ   liation. That’s not a mistake. Hawaii voters 
do not declare a political party aﬃ   liation 
when registering to vote.  Do I have to register to vote every year?  
No, you do not need to register to vote before 
each election. Y ou are however responsible 
for maintaining a current registration. If your 
name, residence, or mailing address changes 
between elections, you need to update your 
voter registration. Election oﬃ   cials rely on 
your current voter registration to know what 
ballot to assign you and where to send it. Get 
in the habit of checking your voter registration 
at the start of every election year! Check and 
update your registration at elections.hawaii.gov.
Where do I vote? 
Y our ballot comes to you! Hawaii is a vote by 
mail state, which means that as a registered 
voter, you’ll automatically receive your ballot 
in the mail every election. With voting by mail, 
our elections don’t take place on just one day, 
your voting window really starts once your 
ballot arrives in your mailbox. Y ou also have 
other options described in this guide. For 
example, you could instead vote in person at 
a voter service center, which has accessible 
voting devices.VOTER REGISTRATION
General ElectionGeneral Election2024 VOTER GUIDE  
4General ElectionGeneral Election
TRACK YOUR BALLOT
Sign up for ballot tracking alerts via text, 
email, or voice call at elections.hawaii.
gov. The service lets you know where 
your ballot is and sends key reminders 
including an alert when the ballot return 
deadline is approaching.
VIEW ELECTION 
RESULTS
After 7:00 PM on Election Day, you can 
begin viewing election results at elections.
hawaii.gov. The results will continue to be 
updated until all valid ballots received by 
the deadline are counted.
You can expect the following 
release of results:
• Report 1 is released after the voter 
service centers are closed on 
Election Day.
• Report 2 is scheduled for release at 
10:30 PM on Election Day.
• Election Day Final Report is released 
once all return envelopes have been 
signature checked by the County 
Elections Division and processed at the 
counting center.
• Election Final Report is released after 
the 5-business day voter signature 
curing period.
VOTER SERVICE 
CENTERS
For same day registration and voting, and 
accessible voting.
Visit elections.hawaii.gov for locations, 
dates, and hours.
Once your return envelope is received, the barcode on it is scanned. The unique barcode allows 
oﬃ   cials to track the return of your ballot and prevents anyone from voting more than once.
The signature on the return envelope is compared to the signature on your voter record. If oﬃ   cials 
are unable to conﬁ  rm a match, you’ll be notiﬁ  ed to ﬁ  x the issue within ﬁ  ve business days post-
election.
If your signature is successfully matched, your ballot is securely transported to the counting center. 
At the counting center, your voted ballot is processed through vote counting scanners.PROCESSING YOUR BALLOTHere’s what you need to know about voting by mail.
Your mail ballot:
• Is automatically sent to your mailing address
• Arrives 18 days before Election Day
• Requires your signature to be counted
• Needs to be received by 7:00 PM on Election Day
What if I didn’t receive my ballot?
If you do not receive your ballot, contact your County Elections Division and they will issue you a 
replacement ballot.
What if I make a mistake on my ballot?
If you make a mistake, misplace, or damage your ballot, request a replacement ballot from your 
County Elections Division.
Can I change my mind after I’ve returned the ballot?
No. Once you return your voted ballot and it is received by the County Elections Division, it is 
considered cast, and you will not be able to receive a new ballot.
How can I vote if I’m away during the election?
If you will be away during the election, you may request an absentee ballot to be mailed to an 
alternate address. Simply complete an Absentee Ballot Application and indicate where you would 
like your ballot to be mailed.VOTING BY MAIL
1. Before voting, review both sides of the ballot. To vote, darken the boxes of your choice with a 
black or blue pen.
2.  After voting, place your ballot in the secrecy sleeve. Then, place the secrecy sleeve in the 
return envelope.
3.  Read the aﬃ   rmation statement and sign the return envelope. Y ou must sign the return envelope 
for your ballot to be counted.COMPLETING YOUR MAIL BALLOT
By Mail: Place your voted ballot in the mail using the pre-addressed, postage-paid return 
envelope. Be mindful of USPS delivery times to ensure it is received by the deadline.
By Ballot Drop Box: Drop your voted ballot at a ballot drop box location within your county. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations, dates, and hours.
V oted ballots must be received by your County Elections Divisions by 7:00 PM on Election Day to 
be counted.RETURNING YOUR MAIL BALLOT
2024 VOTER GUIDE  General ElectionGeneral Election
 2024 VOTER GUIDE  
555Accessible voting options are available. Consider which voting method meets your needs.
1. Vote at home with a paper ballot.
• Automatic mail delivery. Y our ballot packet arrives directly at your mailing address.
• You’re allowed to have help. If reviewing, marking, and returning your ballot poses a challenge, you can ask for help. Y ou’re 
permitted to ask someone you feel comfortable with to help read through your ballot, mark your choices, and be your witness if you 
cannot sign the return envelope independently. Y our employer or your union agent is prohibited from helping. 
• Prepaid return envelope provided. Return your ballot by mail in the provided return envelope. No additional postage is required.
To vote at home with a paper ballot: By registering to vote, you’ll automatically receive a mail ballot every election. No separate 
request is needed.
2. Vote at home with an accessible electronic ballot. If you have a print disability and are unable to read standard print, you’re eligible 
to vote using an electronic ballot.
• Convenient e-mail delivery. Y our electronic ballot is securely sent to your email address. The ballot itself is not connected to the 
Internet and is only transmitted electronically.
• Compatible with personal assistive devices. Use your at-home assistive devices to review and mark your ballot independently. 
The electronic ballot is compatible with all major browsers, device sizes (including smartphones and tablets), and personal assistive 
devices.
To vote with an accessible electronic ballot:  When you register to vote, check the option to request an electronic ballot and aﬃ   rm 
that you meet the qualiﬁ  cations. Y ou’ll need to provide your email address.
3. Vote at a voter service center using a ballot marking device. If you are unable to hand-mark a ballot with a pen, visit a voter service 
center to use the accessible ballot marking device, V erity Touch Writer.
• Enhanced accessibility features. The V erity Touch Writer allows you to independently choose your ballot selections through 
an electronic interface. Device features include a large touchscreen interface, rotary wheel console to move through the ballot, 
compatibility with tactile switches and “sip and puﬀ  ” devices, adjustable text size and screen contrast for increased visibility, and 
headphone capability for audio access.
• Accessible machines are available statewide. All voter service centers are equipped with the V erity Touch Writer. V oter service 
centers are open up to 10 business days leading up to Election Day, giving you ample time to visit a location to vote.
• Not electronic voting. The V erity Touch Writer is simply an electronic device to assist you in reviewing and marking your ballot. 
After voting, you’ll print a paper ballot to be scanned for counting. The printed ballot is the same one used by all voters whether at the 
voter service center or by mail.
To vote using a ballot marking device: Visit a voter service center in your county. Registering ahead of your visit may reduce your 
wait time.ACCESSIBLE VOTING
CAMPAIGN SPENDING
To view candidate contributions and spending, visit the Campaign Spending Commission website at csc.hawaii.gov/CFSPublic/menu/.
ETHICS COMMISSION
To view candidate ﬁ  nancial disclosures for state candidates, visit the State Ethics Commission website at hawaiiethics.my.site.com/public/s/.
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
6General ElectionGeneral Election
LANGUAGE 
ASSISTANCEYOUR VOTING RIGHTS
Your right to the secrecy of your vote
• Y our vote is anonymous and is not tied to you or your voter registration. No record is kept of 
how you voted in an election.
• V oters in Hawaii are not asked to declare a political party preference when registering to vote. 
Hawaii elections oﬃ   ces do not ask, nor keep a record of your party aﬃ   liation.
Your right to Election Day services
• If you are not yet registered to vote on Election Day, you can still register at a voter service 
center in your county. Y ou will be permitted to vote in person for that election and will receive 
a mail ballot for future elections.
• If you are in line, stay in line. V oting closes at 7:00 PM on Election Day, however, if you are in 
line to vote at a voter service center or to drop oﬀ   your mail ballot at a ballot drop box, you will 
be allowed to do so. Oﬃ   cials mark the end of the line, and you will not be permitted to rejoin if 
you leave.
• Y ou can request a provisional ballot if you cannot conﬁ  rm your voter registration. A 
provisional ballot allows you to vote a ballot that may or may not be counted after the County 
Elections Division conﬁ  rms your voter registration information.
Your right to register to vote
• If you are experiencing homelessness or otherwise do not have a traditional residential 
address, you are still eligible to register to vote. When you register, provide a description of 
where you reside – like cross streets and landmarks, to help election oﬃ   cials determine your 
voting district. Election oﬃ   cials can oﬀ  er guidance on voting options including in person 
voting at a voter service center.
• Y ou maintain the right to register and vote if you are a pre-trial detainee, on probation, or 
paroled after imprisonment. If you have been convicted of a felony, you are not permitted 
to vote during your imprisonment, however, your voting rights are restored if you are on 
probation or paroled. 
Your right to vote while away from Hawaii
• If you are temporarily away from your Hawaii residence, you can request for an absentee 
ballot to be mailed to an alternate address by submitting an Absentee Ballot Application.
• If you are active-duty military, spouse or dependent of an active-duty military or a U.S. citizen 
who resides overseas, you are eligible to vote in Hawaii elections. By completing a Federal Post 
Card Application, your ballot will be delivered to you overseas.
Your right to language assistance
• V oting materials are available in Chinese, Olelo Hawaii, Ilocano, and Tagalog, and further 
language assistance is available by contacting the Oﬃ   ce of Elections. 
Your right to accessible voting and assistance
• If you need assistance through the election process, including registering to vote, or reviewing, 
marking, and returning your ballot, you are allowed to receive assistance. It is important 
to note that to protect you against voter intimidation, you are prohibited from receiving 
assistance from a candidate on the ballot, or your employer or union agent.
• Accessible voting options are available to vote privately and independently. V oters with 
disabilities can request an accessible electronic ballot or visit a voter service center to use 
accessible voting equipment to review and mark their ballot.
Cast your
vote in
comfort. 
Your ballot comes to you.Mark your
calendar.
Oct 18 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your General Election ballot     
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Oct 22 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation.
Oct 28 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the General Election.
Nov 5 | General Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Jul 23 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your Primary Election ballot      
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Jul 29 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation. 
Jul 31 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the Primary Election.
Aug 10 | Primary Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Language assistance
Contact us೗ध຋ᩄޙతબᎯࡐྉ҃ڠݴޠॿɼ੥࿆བྷબᎯ㭎ࣨެɻ
For information about registering to vote, 
contact your County Elections Division.
County of Hawaii (808) 961-8277
County of Maui (808) 270-7749
County of Kauai (808) 241-4800
City & County of Honolulu (808) 768-3800
For additional voting information, contact the 
Ofﬁce of Elections.
Phone: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Toll Free: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Toll Free TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Email: elections@hawaii.gov
Website: elections.hawaii.gov2024 Primary Election 
2024 General ElectionNeed to vote absentee? 
If you will be away from home during the 
elections, you can request your ballot be sent 
to an alternate address. Complete an Absentee 
Ballot Application and submit it to your County 
Elections Division no later than 7 days before 
the election. Applications are available at 
elections.hawaii.gov.
Prefer to vote in person? 
Voter Service Centers offer in-person accessible 
voting and voter registration, and are open 10 
business days before and on Election Day. For 
locations and hours, go to elections.hawaii.gov.2024 VOTER GUIDE
7
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty Elections Divisions
County of Hawaii
25 Aupuni Street
Room 1502
Hilo, Hawaii 96720
(808) 961-8277
hiloelec@hawaiicounty.gov
County of Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
(808) 270-7749
county.clerk@mauicounty.us
County of Kauai
4386 Rice Street
Room 101
Lihue, Hawaii 96766
(808) 241-4800
elections@kauai.gov
City & County of Honolulu
530 South King Street
Room 100
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
(808) 768-3800
elections@honolulu.gov
Contact Us
Oﬃ   ce of Elections
802 Lehua Avenue
Pearl City, Hawaii 96782
(808) 453-VOTE (8683)
elections@hawaii.gov
Toll Free: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Toll Free TTY: 1-800-345-5915Disclaimer: Statements on the following pages 
were supplied by the candidates and have not 
been checked for accuracy. The views and opinions 
expressed by the candidates are their own and do not 
necessarily represent the views and opinions of the 
Office of Elections.2024 VOTER GUIDE  
8
General ElectionGeneral ElectionPresident and Vice President - Party for Socialism and Liberation (SL)
 Claudia De la Cruz is a mother, educator, pastor, and lifelong community 
organizer whose work is dedicated to justice for the working class. We say “End 
Capitalism Before It Ends Us” . Locals suffer with the crushing burdens of housing 
costs, groceries, and debt. This system lets a handful of billionaires run the economy, 
launch wars, and destroy the planet. Wall Street and corporate politicians use the 
military to seize, destroy, and pollute the land from Red Hill to Gaza. From government 
neglect in Lahaina to land grabs across Hawai’i, capitalists care more about building 
resorts than rebuilding communities. We support self-determination for the Hawaiian 
nation and full rights for all immigrants. We say stop the war on Black America, end 
the genocide of Palestinians, and end US aid to Israel. We want peace, not endless 
war. Let’s build a people’s movement for justice, together!
BALLOT NAME:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL NAME: 
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Party for Socialism and Liberation
President
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Karina Garcia is a Chicana organizer and educator who has been fighting for a 
better future since she was 17 . After receiving a full scholarship to Columbia, Karina 
taught as a high school math teacher. She helped lead campaigns for abortion rights, 
domestic workers’ rights, full rights for immigrants, and student debt cancellation. 
This campaign calls for a totally new economy that serves the working class, not the 
billionaires. A working class government could meet people’s needs – like making 
free healthcare, free education at all levels, free childcare, decent housing, and union 
jobs constitutional rights. Claudia and Karina are running with the Party for Socialism 
and Liberation (PSL), which is fighting for the immediate needs of poor and working 
people and for a new society – socialism. This campaign is about more than just one 
election, it’s about building a mass movement that is independent from the two pro-
corporate parties.
BALLOT NAME:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL NAME: 
Karina  Garcia 
Party for Socialism and Liberation
Vice President
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
2024 VOTER GUIDE
9
General ElectionGeneral ElectionPresident and Vice President - Democratic Party (D)
 Vice President Harris is fighting for a New Way Forward that protects our 
fundamental freedoms including a woman’s right to choose, strengthens our 
democracy, and ensures every person has the opportunity to not just get by, but to 
get ahead. As a prosecutor, Attorney General, Senator, and now Vice President of 
the United States, Kamala Harris always stood up for the people against predators, 
scammers, and powerful interests. Raised by a working mom in a middle-class 
household, she believes that when the middle class is strong, America is strong 
and as President, she will make it a top priority to bring down costs and increase 
economic security. She promises to be a president for all Americans, a president who 
unites us around our highest aspirations, and a president who always fights for the 
American people. From the courthouse to the White House, that has been her life’s 
work.
BALLOT NAME:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL NAME: 
Kamala D. Harris 
Democratic Party
President
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Governor Tim Walz is a champion for America’s working families. He enlisted in 
the Army National Guard and served for 24 years. Walz served his community as a 
teacher and football coach – taking his team to the state championship for the first 
time in the school’s history. He was elected to Congress in a Republican-leaning 
district, where he served as the ranking member on the House Veterans Affairs 
Committee and passed legislation to help stem veterans’ suicides. As governor, 
Walz cut taxes, lowered the cost of insulin, cracked down on junk fees, and signed 
paid leave into law. Walz stood up for fundamental freedoms and passed legislation 
protecting a woman’s right to choose following Trump’s overturning of Roe. A gun 
owner and hunter, Walz expanded background checks in Minnesota. And, he worked 
across the aisle to pass a bipartisan infrastructure package.
BALLOT NAME:
WALZ, Tim
LEGAL NAME: 
Timothy J. Walz 
Democratic Party
Vice President
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
10
General ElectionGeneral ElectionPresident and Vice President - Libertarian Party (L)
 After traveling to all 50 states, I’ve seen how inflation and government overreach 
are holding people back. By cutting spending and balancing the budget, we can 
ease the cost of living and strengthen the economy for everyone. I’ll end wars, bring 
our troops home, and repeal the Jones Act to lower shipping costs, giving Hawaiians 
access to more affordable groceries. Let’s remove government obstacles and help our 
nation thrive again.
BALLOT NAME:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL NAME: 
Chase Russell Oliver 
Libertarian Party
President
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Mike ter Maat has a successful career in economics highlighted by his work in 
the White House Office of Management and Budget and university teaching. While 
in Washington DC, he advocated for freer financial service markets. Mike ter Maat 
served as a Broward County FL police officer for 11.5 years. He saw first hand the need 
for significant reforms in law enforcement, among them, linking pay to performance 
and replacing qualified immunity with personal liability insurance. Ter Maat’s foreign 
policy emphasizes ethics and non-intervention by avoiding foreign aid and military 
involvement while using trade to encourage and stabilize relationships. Ter Maat 
proposes fewer barriers to lawful immigration and increased border resources for 
faster vetting. Mike ter Maat advocates for decentralizing authority to limit government 
power and adherence to our Bill of Rights.
BALLOT NAME:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL NAME: 
Michael A. ter Maat 
Libertarian Party
Vice President
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com11
General ElectionGeneral ElectionPresident and Vice President - Solidarity Party (S)
2024 VOTER GUIDE
 The American Solidarity Party is committed to the betterment of our nation 
and world through prudent policies guided by Christian Democratic values. Peter 
Sonski and Lauren Onak believe that all people–whether they are unborn, infirm, 
poor, or incarcerated–have an innate human dignity that cannot be taken away. Our 
commitment to one another demands that we pursue justice together, at whatever 
level of government or society responds best to the needs of our families and 
communities. We believe in an environmentalism that puts people and communities 
first, while also protecting our planet for future generations. We support pro-family 
policies that empower families to welcome children into the world by decreasing the 
economic barriers they face. We advocate for workers and local businesses and will 
create incentives for development of a broad ownership economy.
BALLOT NAME:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL NAME: 
Peter  Sonski 
Solidarity Party
President
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com
 A joint statement was submitted for the Presidential and Vice Presidential 
candidates.
BALLOT NAME:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL NAME: 
Lauren M. Onak 
Solidarity Party
Vice President
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com2024 VOTER GUIDE  
12
General ElectionGeneral ElectionPresident and Vice President - Green Party (G)
 The political system is broken. The two Wall Street parties are bought and 
paid for. Both are abandoning working people, neglecting housing, healthcare and 
education, worsening the climate crisis and squandering trillions on the endless war 
machine. Over 60% of us now say the two-party system has failed and we need a 
party that serves the people. I’m running to offer that choice: a pro-worker, anti-war, 
climate action campaign on the ballot nationwide. We reject the corrupting money 
from corporations and billionaires. We will fight for an economy that works for 
working people, with Medicare for All, affordable housing, free public higher education, 
an end to mass incarceration and police violence, reparations for descendants of 
enslaved and colonized people, and more. We need a real Green New Deal and an end 
to endless war. And we must end the genocide in Palestine.
BALLOT NAME:
STEIN, Jill
LEGAL NAME: 
Jill  Stein 
Green Party
President
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Professor Rudolph “Butch” Ware is a lifelong activist and educator specializing 
in the history of empire, colonialism, genocide and revolution. For the past two 
decades, Ware has put scholarship in service of the people, especially in response 
to the ongoing genocide in Gaza, as well as the George Floyd murder in 2020. He has 
organized teach-ins, community education curricula, and other activist and organizing 
initiatives. More broadly, Ware has been working as a public intellectual, activist, artist, 
and organizer, supporting communities across the country and around the world to 
challenge imperialism, ethnic cleansing, and endless war, and to build sustainable, 
just, peaceful alternatives rooted in African, Indigenous, and Abrahamic traditions. 
Ware is a leading academic authority on the U.S. Black Radical Tradition, Africa and 
Islam. Professor Ware is a full faculty member at Northwestern, Michigan, and now UC 
Santa-Barbara, teaching in History, Black Studies, and Islamic studies.
BALLOT NAME:
WARE, Rudolph
LEGAL NAME: 
Rudolph  Ware 
Green Party
Vice President
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com2024 VOTER GUIDE
13
General ElectionGeneral ElectionPresident and Vice President - Republican Party (R)
 I left behind my former life because I couldn’t stand by while career politicians 
bled this country dry. As President, I took on powerful special interests, fixing bad 
trade deals, ending foreign wars, securing the border, and standing up to Big Pharma 
and China. Together, we put America First and returned power to the people. But 
today, the corrupt government cartel is destroying our country. We’re seeing attacks 
on free speech, rampant crime, terrorists flooding our border, and a failing economy. 
Liberty, freedom, and faith are under siege. Our movement to Make America Great 
Again is the only force strong enough to restore safety, prosperity, and peace. I will 
unleash American energy, renew tax cuts, repeal stifling regulations, and stop wasteful 
spending. We’ve already created the greatest American economy once, and we will do 
it again. Together, we will restore America’s prosperity and greatness.
BALLOT NAME:
TRUMP, Donald J.
LEGAL NAME: 
Donald John Trump 
Republican Party
President
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
 It’s an honor to stand with President Donald J. Trump as we work to restore this 
great nation. Despite relentless attacks, President Trump’s dedication to the American 
people is unwavering. He didn’t enter politics for himself—he did it because America 
needed him. President Trump puts America First, fighting for workers, families, and 
communities. Under his leadership, we saw the strongest economy in history, secure 
borders, and renewed American pride. The Washington establishment opposes him 
because he works for you, not them. This election is critical. Under Joe Biden, we’ve 
seen a failing economy, global instability, and rising crime. Kamala Harris would only 
make things worse. But with President Trump, we can return to the strength and 
prosperity we once enjoyed. I’m proud to stand with President Trump and ask for your 
vote. Let’s re-elect him and continue restoring American greatness. Thank you, and 
may God bless America.
BALLOT NAME:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL NAME: 
James David Vance 
Republican Party
Vice President
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com2024 VOTER GUIDE  
14
General ElectionGeneral ElectionU.S. Senator 
 Let’s End Human Trafficking & Drug Smuggling Together! “You cannot solve a 
problem with the same mind that created it.” -Albert Einstein Therefore, The Solution is 
Simple: We Must Change Things Up & “Be The Change We Wish To See In The World” 
-Mahatma Gandhi Be The Hero of Your Own Life & Inspire Our Future Generations To 
Make the World A Better Place. Pikachu believes in Self Sufficiency! Learn how to build 
your own Hale (house), Learn how to Live Off The Grid, Learn how to invest & barter 
with crypto, & become better than you were yesterday. FYI, Master Shelby Billionaire 
was raised out of Wai’anae from a Quonset hut and grew up watching Voltron, Ninja 
Turtles, Care Bears, Thundercats, & Captain Planet. The Power is Yours! If you like 
Super Heroes Vote 4 Pikachu! Cheeeehuuuuuu Facebook @Shelby Keiki’okalani IG @
Legendarybillionaire Youtube @SuperShelbyBillionaire Mahalo Nui Loa!
BALLOT NAME:
BILLIONAIRE, Shelby Pikachu
LEGAL NAME: 
Shelby Billionaire 
We The People
U.S. Senator
hawaiiankingdom.org
presidentbillionaire@gmail.com
(808) 747-7336
 As your U.S. Senator, I’m fighting on your side every day to lower costs and make 
life better for people and families in Hawaii. Whether working to expand education 
opportunities for our keiki, strengthen critical programs like Social Security and 
Medicare for our kupuna, or confirm fair and objective judges, I’m committed to 
ensuring our communities have the support they deserve. During my time in the 
Senate we’ve invested billions in modernizing our nation’s infrastructure, lowered 
health care costs for our kupuna, and taken historic action to combat climate change. 
I’m running for reelection to build on the progress we’ve made and defend our 
democracy. It’s my honor to represent you in the Senate, and I humbly ask for your 
vote in this election.
BALLOT NAME:
HIRONO, Mazie K.
LEGAL NAME: 
Mazie K. Hirono 
Democratic Party
U.S. Senator
mazieforhawaii.com
info@mazieforhawaii.com
(808) 453-0555
 To Win, running a God-centered campaign, conducting myself as a Christian 
Gentleman while putting morality an decency back into our public discourse, Stopping 
the endless wars, Protecting parental rights and students from gender ideology 
brainwashing, and righting our fiscal ship so that working families have a chance 
to thrive and prosper. Father of 8, grandfather to 13, USMC and Desert Storm veteran, 
16-year State of Hawaii Representative.
BALLOT NAME:
MCDERMOTT, Bob
LEGAL NAME: 
Robert C. McDermott 
Republican Party
U.S. Senator
www.votemcdermott.com
Representativemcdermott@gmail.com
(808) 371-4605
 My name is Emma Jane Avila Pohlman. I am an Earth Lawyer and Mediator. I 
studied Philosophy and Political Science at the University of Southern California (USC) 
and earned my Juris Doctor at Loyola Law School. I believe in good government and 
fundamental core principles. My central focus is water. All People of Hawai’i must have 
clean water. This is our government’s primary responsibility.
BALLOT NAME:
POHLMAN,Emma Jane Avila
LEGAL NAME: 
Emma Jane Avila Pohlman 
Green Party
U.S. Senator
emmajanehawaii@icloud.com
(808) 960-76802024 VOTER GUIDE
15
General ElectionGeneral ElectionU.S. Representative I
 Aloha. In these difficult times, we don’t need more division and inaction. We 
do need strong, steady leadership for real solutions to real challenges. I was born 
and raised in Hilo to deep roots throughout Hawai’i. I ‘ve had full careers in law and 
business, eight years in our Hawai’i Legislature, a great family. I now have ten years of 
seniority in Congress. I hold key positions like our House Appropriations Committee 
which funds our federal government. I’ve fought for key advances for our country and 
to solve crises like COVID, Red Hill and Maui for our Hawai’i. I’ve always believed that 
we can and must find a better way forward, together. No yelling and screaming. Just 
facing our challenges honestly, working hard and getting the job done. That’s what 
it takes. That’s what I’ve done. That’s what I offer. I humbly ask for your continued 
support., Mahalo.
BALLOT NAME:
CASE, Ed
LEGAL NAME: 
Edward E. Case 
Democratic Party
U.S. Representative District I
www.edcase.com
edcase@edcase.com
(808) 546-9509
 Aloha! I’m Patrick Largey, and I’m running for Congress in Hawaii’s 1st 
Congressional District. Born and raised in Hudson, Massachusetts, I’ve called Hawaii 
my home since being stationed here in the US Air Force in 1985. I care about the 
people, the land and its traditions. I support and defend the US Constitution. I am pro-
Life, pro-2nd Amendment, pro-US military and Law Enforcement. I served 23 year with 
the US military and Law Enforcement. Serving people has always been my passion, 
and that’s why I am running for office. I love our country, but I frown upon the current 
administration’s agenda and destructive policies. The people of Hawaii deserve much 
better. We must get our fiscal house in order, first, and stop spending $$$ billions to 
countries that don’t like us very much.
BALLOT NAME:
LARGEY, Patrick C.
LEGAL NAME: 
Patrick C. Largey 
Republican Party
U.S. Representative District I
freedom4hawaii.com
patricklargey4congress@gmail.com
(808) 304-4006
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
16
General ElectionGeneral ElectionU.S. Representative II
 Born in Honolulu, living on Maui. My degree in Economics has given me the 
background to observe and evaluate the deteriorating financial conditions we all face. 
There is a decline in purchasing power. One consequence is desperation as people are 
trying to feed their families. I am guided by tolerance, civility, and the Aloha Spirit I will 
stand up for the people of our community. There are two main political parties and in 
order to have a genuine seat at the table, Hawaii needs to have a bipartisan presence 
in Washington. I will be that person. My Campaign needs volunteers. Financial donors 
are requested. Elect me so I can serve your interests!BALLOT NAME:
BOND, Steve
LEGAL NAME: 
Steven R. Bond 
Republican Party
U.S. Representative District II
votestevebond.com
votestevebond@gmail.com
(808) 756-3638
 No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
MEYER, Randall Kelly
LEGAL NAME: 
Randall Kelly Meyer 
Nonpartisan
U.S. Representative District II
randallmeyer2000@yahoo.com
(541) 521-4639
 From Pāpaʻaloa on Hawaiʻi Island, to Puʻunēnē on Maui, to Puhi on Kauaʻi, to my 
hometown of Kāneʻohe–our family has called Hawaiʻi’s Second Congressional District 
home for five generations. For me, serving in Congress is personal and about ensuring 
that the next generation can see a future for themselves in this place we love. That 
means making sure we are building housing people can afford. Working to ensure 
access to healthcare and mental health services. Creating educational opportunities 
and good jobs. Reducing the cost of living on everything from food and utilities to gas 
and prescription drugs. I bring the sense of urgency I have as a mother to Congress 
to get things done and take care of our people and community like family. We’ve 
accomplished much together, but there’s so much more to be done. I humbly ask for 
your consideration and your vote.
BALLOT NAME:
TOKUDA, Jill N.
LEGAL NAME: 
Jill N. Tokuda 
Democratic Party
U.S. Representative District II
tokudaforhawaii.com
jill@tokudaforhawaii.com
 Aaron Toman was raised on Oahu and has lived most of his adult life on the Hilo 
side of Big Island. Aaron realized that no one was going to magically appear to fix 
our political landscape, if he wanted to see change, he had to be the change! Aaron’s 
11 point platform is broken into three sections: Fix Congress, Fix the Nation, and Fix 
Hawaii; with the most important points being Congressional Term Limits, Voting Rights 
for US Territories, Amending the Jones Act to exclude Hawaii, and removing Qualified 
Immunity from the Justice System. You are encouraged to review Aaron’s full platform 
on his website, LimitThePower.com 2024 will be the year that Americans reject the two 
party system! Be a part of history by electing Hawaii’s first Libertarian Congressman 
and the nation’s first House Minority Leader from a 3rd party! Aaron Toman is Hawaii’s 
3rd Option and 1st Choice!
BALLOT NAME:
TOMAN, Aaron
LEGAL NAME: 
Aaron M. Toman 
Libertarian Party
U.S. Representative District II
www.limitthepower.com
limitthepowerhi@gmail.com
(808) 756-0790
2024 VOTER GUIDE
17
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Senator District 3
 I am extremely grateful for the privilege to serve as Senator for District 3 since 
2018, an opportunity that has uniquely positioned me to help meet the needs of 
our community, where I have deep roots. From championing improved access to 
affordable housing, bolstering the State’s education system, and promoting economic 
diversification, to advocating for grassroots initiatives, my primary focus remains on 
amplifying the voices of Kona, Kaʻū, and Volcano at the Capitol. As Majority Leader 
of the Senate, I have effectively leveraged my leadership role to ensure equity for 
Hawai’i Island. With your support, I look forward to continuing to fight for policies that 
uplift all residents and preserve our State’s unique way of life. I remain committed to 
continuing to serve Senate District 3, delivering results that will benefit our State for 
generations to come. Mahalo in advance for your trust and continued partnership.
BALLOT NAME:
KANUHA, Dru Mamo
LEGAL NAME: 
Dru Mamo Kanuha 
Democratic Party
State Senator District 3
drukanuha.com
info@drukanuha.com
(808) 329-4067
 Embracing a new era of politics in Hawaii with a touch of common sense! Let’s 
pave the way for positive change, transparency, and progress. Together, we can shape 
a brighter future for our beloved islands.
BALLOT NAME:
SULLIVAN, Kurt (Sulli)
LEGAL NAME: 
Kurt E. Sullivan 
Republican Party
State Senator District 3
kurt.sullivan@sulburk.com
(808) 300-9809
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
18
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Senator District 6
 Aloha! I’m Angus McKelvey and I mahalo you and your ‘ohana for the privilege 
of serving as your State Senator. Born and raised here, my calling is to protect Hawaii 
and its most important resource - our people. I’m committed to affordable housing; 
middle-class tax relief; and sustainable practices to preserve our environment and 
help families thrive. I’ve challenged the decisions of distant powers and continue 
to demand transparency and inclusion from our government. I stand with Maui’s 
residents as our island endures ongoing struggles related to the Lahaina Wildfire. 
With your vote, I will continue working to coordinate and resolve the government 
efforts and bureaucracies that affect us; and secure funds needed for Maui’s recovery. 
I am committed to our survival, healing, and resilience. Together, we will rise from the 
ashes and ensure our people have a brighter, safer, and sustainable future.
BALLOT NAME:
MCKELVEY, Angus L.K.
LEGAL NAME: 
Angus L.K. McKelvey 
Democratic Party
State Senator District 6
mac4senate6@gmail.com
(808) 870-8644
 Would you like to see Maui maintain its genuine ALOHA charm and rich Hawaiian 
culture? Would you also like to have accessible housing, abundant utilities, and high 
paying jobs? We don’t have to compromise; we can have both! Vote for me and I’ll 
make sure we don’t sell this beautiful island out to corporate interests or foreign 
investors who have little respect for the ʻāina and the people who live here. We have 
no time to waste, I will make sure your voices are heard, the urgency is now! I promise 
to communicate with the COMMUNITY regularly, have COMPASSION for your issues 
and use COMMON SENSE to find solutions in the legislature. Let’s all take positive 
action, I have the energy, passion and commitment to keep Maui nō ka ‘oi, Vote Sheila 
Walker. The Maui Community Must Come First!
BALLOT NAME:
WALKER, Sheila
LEGAL NAME: 
Sheila A. Walker 
Republican Party
State Senator District 6
votesheilawalker.com
votesheilawalker@gmail.com
(808) 344-8644
2024 VOTER GUIDE
19
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Senator District 7
 Aloha, My name is Lynn Pualani DeCoite and I am asking for your support to 
serve another term as your State Senator for District 7 . Born In Honolulu and raised 
on Molokaʻi, my upbringing on the family farm laid the foundation on commitment 
to agriculture and environmental stewardship. With a focus on transparency, 
accountability, and inclusivity, I am committed to representing the diverse voices 
and needs of our community. I am dedicated to enhancing the lives of all my 
constituents. Serving as Assistant Majority Floor Leader and Chair of the Energy, 
Economic Development, and Tourism Committee, I will continue to prioritize boosting 
food production, advocating affordable housing, and environmental protection. In 
these challenging times, amplifying our community’s voice is my mission. Your voice 
matters, and I’m here to ensure it’s heard. I ask for your support to let me continue to 
serve you as State Senator for District 7 .
BALLOT NAME:
DECOITE, Lynn Pualani
LEGAL NAME: 
Lynn P. DeCoite 
Democratic Party
State Senator District 7
lynndecoite.org
friendsoflynndecoite@gmail.com
 Born in the Pacific Island of Guam, I learned the value of hard work at an early 
age by helping run our family’s small store and farm. By 16, I was in the workforce, 
enhancing good work ethics that create value to those who I am surrounded by. At 
19, I supervised four stores giving me experience in leadership. In 2005, I joined the 
USCG, serving six years stationed in Oahu. By 2013, I joined the local workforce in Maui 
and with my first business trip to Maui sparked a deep connection to its preserved 
beauty, reminiscent of Guam. Since then, I was a Safety Officer, Safety Director, Safety 
Specialist, and now currently the Operations Manager for the County of Maui. Maui is 
my home, embracing its culture and committed to its preservation. Whether defending 
the landscapes and the community, I am blessed with every moment in this paradise.
BALLOT NAME:
MACARAEG, Gabby
LEGAL NAME: 
Gabby Junior C. Macaraeg 
Republican Party
State Senator District 7
gabbymacaraeg.maui@gmail.com
(808) 657-3175
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
20
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Senator District 12
 Aloha, my name is Shotaro Dabbs. Born and raised in Waikiki, I like many 
others faced struggles during my childhood, including my father’s incarceration 
and homelessness. I was raised by a hardworking single mother who worked long 
hours to make ends meet. These experiences have deepened my commitment to 
our community. I am running to represent you in the State Senate for District 12. My 
top priorities are tackling homelessness, enhancing public safety, and improving 
education. Together, we can build a brighter future for Hawaii by expanding mental 
health services, enhancing public safety measures, and granting teachers greater 
autonomy to foster individualized learning. I believe in collaborative solutions and 
community engagement to address our challenges effectively. Mahalo for your 
support.
BALLOT NAME:
DABBS, Shotaro
LEGAL NAME: 
Shotaro L. Dabbs 
Republican Party
State Senator District 12
shotarodabbs.com
shotarodabbs2024@gmail.com
(808) 548-1362
 As a Democrat Senator, I’ve been honored to serve you in Kakaako, Ala Moana, 
Moiliili, McCully, and Waikiki. I was in Governor Waihee’s Cabinet as labor department 
deputy and personnel director; in the Judiciary as courts administrator; and at 
UH as assistant vice president. Our beautiful neighborhood has serious problems 
-- homelessness, crime and noise, sea level rise, limited green spaces, kupuna and 
keiki needing help. So far, we have moved on noise; shifting homeless to better 
places; bringing in “Safe and Sound” crime control; keeping Kakaako’s shoreline free 
of luxury high rises. We still need comprehensive solutions that end homelessness 
using a statewide homeless office; build affordable housing; enforce laws against 
habitual violent offenders; curb excessive noise; fund in-place care for kupuna and 
career pathways for keiki, and; execute sea level rise planning. I’m here to serve you. 
Together, we’ll build a better community and state. Please “Vote Sharon.”
BALLOT NAME:
MORIWAKI, Sharon Y.
LEGAL NAME: 
Sharon Y. Moriwaki 
Democratic Party
State Senator District 12
sharonmoriwaki.com
sharonymoriwaki@gmail.com
(808) 428-1348
2024 VOTER GUIDE
21
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Senator District 16
 Hawaii deserves better than what it’s been getting. Born and reared in Hawaii, 
it is my home and that of my extended family. I’ve seen tremendous changes over 
my lifetime—many stunning and, unfortunately, many for the worse. Having lived as 
an adult on the mainland for 30 years, Japan for 13, and Canada for 1, I understand 
the perspectives of other locations and other people. My father introduced the U.S. 
Constitution to me as a very young child and I was impressed at that age by its 
protection of individual, minority rights. It sounded so right to my young mind. Those 
rights are in more danger than ever (CBDC, the recent mandatory shots, mandatory 
masks, and more.). I will fight for freedom of the people, even if I am the only one 
in the legislature to do so on a particular issue. For more information, see my 
forthcoming website.
BALLOT NAME:
BEEKMAN, Pat
LEGAL NAME: 
Patricia Y. Beekman 
Republican Party
State Senator District 16
kaaina@mac.com
(808) 221-9695
 Aloha! I’m Brandon Elefante, current member of the Hawaiʻi State Senate, 
District 16 (‘Aiea, Pearl City, and Hālawa). It has been my life’s great honor to serve 
in public office for the last 10 years. This past year, I diligently worked alongside my 
colleagues in the state legislature to address critical issues, from improving access 
to affordable housing, supporting critical infrastructure projects, and advocating for 
a cleaner environment. Together, we have achieved significant milestones, but there 
is still much more we must accomplish. Throughout my years of public service, I 
have learned the importance of listening to your concerns, collaborating across party 
lines, and working tirelessly to find common-sense solutions to our most pressing 
challenges. I believe that my experience, dedication, and passion for our community 
make me the best choice to continue representing your interests in the State Senate. 
Mahalo.
BALLOT NAME:
ELEFANTE, Brandon
LEGAL NAME: 
Brandon J.C. Elefante 
Democratic Party
State Senator District 16
www.brandonelefante.com
info@brandonelefante.com
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
22
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Senator District 18
 Aloha, I am Senator Michelle Kidani and running for re-election to the Hawaii 
State Senate. Mahalo plenty for allowing me to serve as your Senator since 2009. 
I currently serve as Vice President of the Hawai’i State Senate and Chair of the 
Committee on Education. If you will allow me, I would like to serve our district for 
another term to continue supporting our Superintendent and Dept. of Education to 
assure our children have the best education our Hawai’i can offer.
BALLOT NAME:
KIDANI, Michelle N.
LEGAL NAME: 
Michelle N. Kidani 
Democratic Party
State Senator District 18
mnkidani.com
mnkidani@gmail.com
(808) 754-4442
 36yrs ago I’ve escaped communism with my wife. Well educated (Masters in 
nuclear physics and engineering), we didn’t come to USA for handouts, but worked 
hard to have thriving life for our family, and children’s children future. Today we know 
it’s possible. However trajectory controlled by people in our current government is 
destroying lives. Every child is headed to shorter lifespan than their parents. We need 
bottom up movement of working people to reverse this trend. There are real solutions 
(not “Green Deal” scam) for self-sufficiency in food production, energy, affordable 
housing. No working family shall struggle financially or be forced to leave this 
beautiful state. They’ll be represented again. As a scientist brainstorming with experts 
and with your support united we’ll stop these greedy special corporate interests 
corrupting our politicians, corrupting election system, and ruining Hawaiians. I’ll bring 
common sense, righteousness, and Aloha back to negotiating table. Mahalo.
BALLOT NAME:
SVRCINA, Emil
LEGAL NAME: 
Emil Svrcina 
Republican Party
State Senator District 18
EmilClearChoice.com
emilsvrcina@gmail.com
(808) 256-6473
2024 VOTER GUIDE
23
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Senator District 22
 Aloha, my name is Samantha DeCorte. I am Native Hawaiian and deeply 
rooted in my faith and in my culture. My husband and I, recently celebrated our 27th 
anniversary and, together, we have raised 3 young capable men. In 2022, I ran for 
Hawaii State Senate District 22 and came up short by 40 votes. It was the closest 
race in the 2022 election. Since then I have worked in both branches of the Hawaii 
State Legislature, including the House of Representatives and presently the Senate, I 
have gained valuable policy experience and cultivated important relationships. As a 
result, I am fully prepared to assume the responsibilities of the role on day one. I have 
become a member of our district’s neighborhood board and was elected by fellow 
board members to serve as the Chair. Please visit my website for more info: www.
SamanthaDeCorte.com. I humbly ask for your vote.
BALLOT NAME:
DECORTE, Samantha
LEGAL NAME: 
Samantha M. DeCorte 
Republican Party
State Senator District 22
www.SamanthaDecorte.com
samantha@samanthadecorte.com
(808) 306-9604
 Aloha! My name is Cedric Asuega Gates, and I am a lifelong resident of the 96792 
community. I am a proud alumnus of Kamaile Elementary, Wai’anae Intermediate, 
Wai’anae High School, YouthBuild Honolulu, and Leeward Community College-
Wai’anae Moku. I currently serve as the State Representative of District 45, which 
encompasses Mākua, Mākaha, and Wai’anae. I have previously served our community 
as the Chairman of the Wai’anae Coast Neighborhood Board and was a member of 
the Board of Directors for the Wai’anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. Since 
being elected to office, I’ve secured over $250 million in funding for our roads, schools, 
infrastructure, state parks, fire prevention, healthcare, homeless and more. Every year 
as a legislator, I’ve been able to pass bills to improve our way of life in 96792, and I 
plan to continue doing the same as your next Senator. I humbly ask for you and your 
Ohana’s vote.
BALLOT NAME:
GATES, Cedric Asuega
LEGAL NAME: 
Cedric S. Gates 
Democratic Party
State Senator District 22
CEDRICFORHAWAII.COM
CEDRIC4HAWAII@GMAIL.COM
(808) 457-6385
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
24
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Senator District 23
 No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
AWA, Brenton
LEGAL NAME: 
Brenton P. Awa 
Republican Party
State Senator District 23
friendsofbrentonawa@gmail.com
(808) 454-3017
 Ben Shafer is a fourth generation Hawaiian from Kahana Valley. A long-time 
community advocate, he was one of the leaders in the fight against Turtle Bay Resort 
expansion. Ben works for the International Alliance Theatrical and Stage Employees 
and Film I.A.T.S.E. Local 665, and he serves on the Oʻahu Island Burial Council. Ben 
believes integrity matters and that unity is the path to success. Ben’s compassion and 
respect for others helps guide his work. Our large and diverse district needs an active 
leader who can effectively represent all our communities. Ben will serve as a pono 
Senator our district needs and deserves. The high cost of living makes it increasingly 
difficult to get by. Government needs more accountability and less waste. We must 
protect our quality of life, avoid over-development, protect our agricultural lands, 
increase local food production, maintain our roads, care for kupuna and keiki. Aloha, 
Lōkahi, Pono.
BALLOT NAME:
SHAFER, Ben
LEGAL NAME: 
Benjamin D. Shafer 
Democratic Party
State Senator District 23
bdshafer@gmail.com
(808) 388-5777
2024 VOTER GUIDE
25
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 3
“Let’s Do Better!” Nullify the Jones Act. Disinfect the House. Sustainable Prosperity 
through Freedom. I represent the organic homesteading community of Big Island. I 
share your dreams and I hit the same potholes in our roads. You’ve probably seen 
me playing music on the streets, serving those in need, and listening to people 
from all walks of life. I believe we want the same things: prosperous, safer, and freer 
communities with our freedom protected from government interference. Together, 
we will send a clear message to the failing two-party system: “Do better.” If you send 
me to serve in the State House of Representatives, I will work hard for you. I will read 
each bill with care. My experience with parliamentary procedure, legislative review, 
and legal theory will ensure that I can make better use of the position than any other 
candidate; I won’t let you down. Let’s Do Better.
BALLOT NAME:
MARTIN, Austin D. (Shiloh)
LEGAL NAME:
Austin D. Martin 
Libertarian Party
State Representative District 3
libertarianhawaii.com
rapidreason@gmail.com
(940) 368-0364
Aloha East Hawai‘i! My number one priority has been and will continue to be 
making it easier to make ends meet for local residents. We have taken some steps 
in the right direction recently and I will do my best to continue this momentum 
towards a fairer tax code and more opportunities for young families and kupuna, alike. 
In addition to doing my best to lower the cost of living and create more favorable 
economic conditions, I will continue our push to transform healthcare in East Hawai’i 
through the further expansion of Hilo Medical Center and new facilities for Puna. 
Mahalo for your consideration and thank you for voting!
BALLOT NAME:
TODD, Christopher L.T.
LEGAL NAME:
Christopher L.T. Todd 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 3
www.christoshirotodd.org
christmastodd@gmail.com
(808) 825-8636
Aloha, I, Kanoa Hauoli Wilson am running for state representative for district 3 
as a Republican candidate. Kanoa Wilson (808)-365-3033 kanoaw@gmail.com As 
the representative for district 3 I would like to turn focus towards issues at hand that 
seem to slip through the cracks while taking focus off nonsense such as declaring the 
Shaka the official gesture of Hawaii or issues similar to that. Prior to settling down in 
Hawaii county, I was a merchant marine and had an injury which ended my career, 
since then I have built a small business helping people in need along with trying to 
host events for those a little less fortunate with free community events. Thanks for the 
consideration
BALLOT NAME:
WILSON, Kanoa
LEGAL NAME:
Kanoa Hauoli Wilson 
Republican Party
State Representative District 3
kanoaw@gmail.com
(808) 365-3033
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
26
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 4
 Born and raised in Hawaii, and a Mother of 3, I am naturally compassionate and 
empathetic. I am innovative and take a common sense approach in finding solutions. 
Since I was a child, I have served alongside various non-profit organizations & have 
led many community driven events to help bring hope & solutions to our people. As 
a resident of beautiful district 4, I hope to continue that, and not only be a voice, but a 
great listener this community needs. We need laws that support our people. Not drive 
them away. We need lawmakers that listen. Many laws were passed in the legislature 
that does not support the wellbeing of our people, and unfortunately some of those 
laws were supported by the very people we voted into office. I am a Woman of my 
word and can be trusted with the life of our district. I am hope.
BALLOT NAME:
HO, Keikilani
LEGAL NAME: 
Keikilani G.P. Ho 
Republican Party
State Representative District 4
keikilanikealoha@gmail.com
(808) 437-0670
 No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
ILAGAN, Greggor
LEGAL NAME: 
Greggor Johanson P. Ilagan 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 4
voteilagan.com
greggorilagan@gmail.com
(808) 557-5819
2024 VOTER GUIDE
27
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 5
It’s time to plant the seeds of constructive political change. This requires 
thinking outside political Party boundaries. Although my views best align with 
the Libertarians (more freedom, less government), I’m basically independent. The 
issue, not the Party, must drive improvement efforts. The following is a very short 
summary of my goals. (www.ffogel.net for more.) Taxes – convert state income tax 
to flat percentages, eliminate sales tax on food and medicine. Environment – more 
effort on the interdiction and elimination of invasive species, and provide full-service 
recycle stations (dumps). Elections – implement voting online. Political – term limits 
for politicians, and extend legislative session from five months to ten, with no increase 
in politicians’ salaries. Education – dissolve state school board in favor of separate 
island boards, voucher system. Prisons – focus on rehabilitation. Government – push 
authority down to the county level. Laws – let counties legalize gambling.
BALLOT NAME:
FOGEL, Frederick F.
LEGAL NAME:
Frederick F. Fogel 
Libertarian Party
State Representative District 5
www.ffogel.net
fogelforfreedom@gmail.com
(808) 265-1659
As the current representative for House District 5, I have steadfastly championed 
our state’s most economically disadvantaged residents and working families. I am 
committed to fighting for important policies like paid family leave, paid sick leave, 
tax fairness, and truly affordable housing. I am also devoted to growing green jobs, 
protecting our precious ‘āina from predatory development, strengthening emergency 
preparedness, and enhancing climate resilience across our island home. Finally, I will 
always be a fierce advocate for women’s rights, Native Hawaiian programs, access to 
quality health care, and civil liberties for our LGBTQ+ neighbors. In the face of great 
challenges, I know we can work together to create a more prosperous and sustainable 
future for our island home. I am dedicated to delivering leadership with aloha for your 
‘ohana and our community.
BALLOT NAME:
KAPELA, Jeanne
LEGAL NAME:
Jeanne M. Kapela 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 5
www.jeannekapela.com
jeanne@jeannekapela.com
(808) 854-1148
Iʻve lived in District 5 since I was four years old and am blessed to raise 
my children here. As a parent and West Hawaii’s 2020 Teacher of the Year, Iʻve 
experienced the need for change within several aspects of education. I will work 
for accountability, transparency, and fairness for all students and families within 
the school system. I stand for parental rights and believe that students and 
families deserve to be a part of educational decisions that impact them. I envision 
communities where families are respected and supported when it comes to their 
decisions on education, food sustainability, and community and land preservation. I 
believe that proper maintenance of public roadways and infrastructures should be a 
top priority. We need to take care of families who are fighting to keep Hawaiʻi as their 
home. We need to invest in our people NOW to ensure a promising future.
BALLOT NAME:
OYAMA, Ashley
LEGAL NAME:
Ashley K.P. Oyama 
Republican Party
State Representative District 5
www.ashleyoyama.com
ashley@ashleyoyama.com
(808) 437-0755
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
28
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 6
 I am humbled to serve Kona as your State Representative, from Kailua to 
Hōnaunau. In my first term, I passed legislation to protect Kona coffee and mac nuts, 
strengthen Hawaiʻi’s defenses against invasive species, and grow community-based 
innovation and economic development. I also secured funding for long-overdue 
maintenance of local schools and Kona Community Hospital. I am strongly committed 
to all of Hawaiʻi Island as my family roots are from Hilo, Keaukaha, ʻOpihikao, Kaʻū 
and Waipiʻo. As a Native Hawaiian and mother, my work at the legislature is deeply 
meaningful, as Hawaiʻi is my home. I have proven that I will work each and every 
day for all of our families, so our next generations have a place in Hawaiʻi to continue 
to live and call home. Mahalo for your belief in the work I will continue to do at the 
Legislature.
BALLOT NAME:
KAHALOA, Kirstin
LEGAL NAME: 
Kirstin A.K. Kahaloa 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 6
kahaloaforkona.com
vote@kahaloaforkona.com
(808) 430-5821
 From Red to Blue, and everyone in between, we’re united by the shared 
challenges we face as kama’aina. Despite our differences, it’s time to put the people of 
Hawai’i FIRST. I am running for office to bring the voice of the people to the capital. We 
must take immediate action on housing, homelessness, education, and government 
overreach and over-spending.  We also need to be tough on crime and have more 
rights on our land. I am a strong supporter of individual rights, fishing, hunting, 
farming, and your freedom to protect yourself, your family, and your property. I am 
a Hawai’i small business owner, earned a Bachelors of Science in criminal justice 
and continue to study at Kapi’olani Community College. I was a board member of 
the Hawaii Big Game Fishing Club and have worked for the Hawai’i Small Business 
Development Center. 
BALLOT NAME:
MADISON, Sylvie M.
LEGAL NAME: 
Sylvie M. Madison 
Republican Party
State Representative District 6
www.letsgobigisland.com
vote@letsgobigisland.com
(808) 430-5563
2024 VOTER GUIDE
29
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 7
 Aloha! As a U.S. Marine Combat Veteran and entrepreneur who created dozens 
of local jobs and revitalized a neglected shopping plaza in Kona, I am committed 
to serving Hawaii’s District 7 with dedication. My volunteer leadership experience 
as Director on the Kailua Village Business Improvement District and church 
deacon reflects my commitment to community and family values. In the 2022 U.S. 
Senate Republican Primary, I proudly earned the majority vote on the Big Island, 
demonstrating broad support for my vision of economic growth, lower living costs, 
and affordable housing to build a sustainable future for our keiki in the Islands. My 
plans also include improving infrastructure and ensuring government spending 
accountability. If elected, I promise open and transparent communication, with regular 
engagement through emails, calls, and public forums – ensuring every resident’s 
voice is heard and represented passionately in the State Legislature. Mahalo nui loa 
for your vote!
BALLOT NAME:
DALHOUSE, Timothy A. (Tim)
LEGAL NAME: 
Timothy Alan Dalhouse 
Republican Party
State Representative District 7
timdalhouse.com
vote4tim@timdalhouse.com
(808) 772-3996
 Nicole Lowen has been representing West Hawaii in the State House since 2012, 
and has worked tirelessly for her district. Over the years, Nicole has brought home 
funding to improve schools, hospitals, to build the Kona Courthouse, and the HCC 
Palamanui Campus, among other things. As a former teacher, Nicole has fought for 
better pay for teachers and better schools for keiki, has worked towards providing 
more affordable housing and addressing the high cost of living in Hawaii. Nicole has 
worked hard to support working families, local farmers and businesses, and, as the 
Chair of the Committee on Energy and Environmental Protection, Nicole has prioritized 
protecting Hawaii’s natural resources, renewable energy, and addressing the climate 
crisis. Nicole strives to always be responsive and available to her constituents and 
to communicate regularly. If re-elected, she will continue to serve with integrity, 
experience, and hard work.
BALLOT NAME:
LOWEN, Nicole
LEGAL NAME: 
Nicole E. Lowen 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 7
nicolelowen.com
nicole@nicolelowen.com
(808) 937-8196
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
30Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 8
 Aloha, I’m Monique Cobb-Adams Perreira, a proud native Hawaiian, US Navy 
veteran, and a dedicated small business owner. I’m also blessed to be a wife, mother, 
and grandmother. Growing up in Hawai’i has instilled in me a deep love for this 
place I call home. My mission is clear: to ensure that the people of Hawai’i not only 
survive but thrive for generations to come. As your candidate, I believe we need 
to limit government over reach in our lives and businesses. End Pay-to-play in our 
government, hold our elected and appointed officials accountable to do their jobs, and 
end corruption. I bring common sense, honesty and a commitment to finding REAL 
solutions to solve the many failed policy’s that plague Hawai’i. Let’s work together to 
bring about REAL change and secure a brighter future for our āina, keiki, and Hawai’i 
nei.
BALLOT NAME:
PERREIRA, Monique CobbAdams
LEGAL NAME: 
Monique C.A.K. Perreira 
Republican Party
State Representative District 8
cobbadamsmo@gmail.com
(808) 938-3370
 Aloha. My name is David Tarnas and I am running for re-election as the State 
Representative for House District 8 - North and South Kohala. I have lived in the 
district about 38 years and my wife and I raised our two children in Waimea. I 
currently serve as the Chair of the House Committee on Judiciary and Hawaiian 
Affairs and have served in office for five terms. I am committed to addressing the 
critical issues we face in our district including supporting affordable housing, public 
education, public safety, and environmental protection, as well as securing funds for 
the public highways, harbors, schools, libraries, hospitals, and other state facilities in 
our district. I will continue to work hard to help our families, children, kupuna, as well 
as the businesses that support our economy including agriculture, tourism, astronomy, 
healthcare, and knowledge-based businesses. For more information please see www.
votetarnas.com. Mahalo!
BALLOT NAME:
TARNAS, David A.
LEGAL NAME: 
David A. Tarnas 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 8
www.votetarnas.com
votetarnas@gmail.com
(808) 987-5810
2024 VOTER GUIDE
31
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 11
 My dedication and mission to help with Maui’s economic opportunity as I 
have done in the past 21 yrs, along with working on providing HOPE for Maui in the 
aftermath of the Lahaina Fires. By continuing on being active in our housing issues, 
also in fixing the electrical, road access for emergency infrastructure in South Maui 
along with helping to create higher paying jobs in the creative arts and technical field 
in the film industry as i’ve done. Working together to rebuild a better brighter future 
for our community. Helping to keep unification in our community, while focusing on 
small businesses, and maintaining our cultural traditions, and most of all, protecting 
our children from sex human trafficking, and protecting seniors from cyber scams 
and predators. I look forward to serving Maui Nui and the State Of Hawaii. contact: 
aileenlilyacain@gmail.com www.voteaileenlilyacain.com
BALLOT NAME:
ACAIN, Aileen R. (Lily)
LEGAL NAME: 
Aileen R. Acain 
Republican Party
State Representative District 11
www.votelilyacain.com
aileenlilyacain@gmail.com
(808) 264-0622
 Aloha Neighbors, I work for you! Representing you is my privilege and honor. 
You deserve a representative who is #WorkingForThePeople, not corporations or 
lobbyists! I refuse their contributions. I’m #NotForSale. Talk is cheap. My results: 
$53Million for affordable Kihei housing, schools, flood/fire mitigation, 200 new Kihei 
workforce, preschool and teacher #AffordableHousing units, requested 800 additional 
units for houseless and fire victims, while preserving environmental standards. I 
supported kūpuna, #Union and hospitality workers, striking nurses, teacher pay 
raises, #SchoolSafety, #GayRights, #LivingWage, #LocalFarmers, reducing student 
debt, expanded healthcare, #LowerTaxes and CNA/nurse education. #ProChoice: 
Democracy, freedom and #ReproductiveRights are on the ballot: As a primary 
introducer of Act2: I won’t stand by while Democracy is attacked, and doctors and 
abortions are criminalized by (R)adical opponents. #LegalizeIt. Protecting kūpuna, 
keiki, small businesses, disabled, our environment and #HumanRights is my job. I will 
stand up for YOU! Thank you for voting #TAmato
BALLOT NAME:
AMATO, Terez (T.Amato)
LEGAL NAME: 
Terez M.A. Lindsey 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 11
www.TAmato.org
Admin@TerezAmato.org
(808) 268-2622
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
32Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 12
I’m running for office because I love Maui and everything about this island 
that sets it apart from the rest of the world (including the rest of Hawaii). I’m a 
husband, a father of two young children, and was born and raised on Maui with four 
generations family here. After graduating from UH Manoa with a degree in Finance, 
I’ve navigated a successful career in project management over the past decade. 
Through my experience I have come to understand many of the core reasons for our 
state’s exceptionally high cost of living. It saddens me when local families can no 
longer afford to live here and are forced to leave. My heart is to prioritize reducing 
the cost of living through state tax adjustments, incentivizing local homeownership, 
while preserving our values, liberties, land, resources, and restoring our community. I 
humbly ask for your vote to serve as your representative.
BALLOT NAME:
JOHNSON, Dan
LEGAL NAME:
Daniel B. Johnson 
Republican Party
State Representative District 12
Danjohnson4hawaii@gmail.com
(808) 250-0020
We are amidst swift and unprecedented transformations that will forever reshape 
our lives. The relentless ferocity of climate change will persist, unleashing more 
intense storms, depleting reefs, and raising sea levels. AI will present challenges 
and opportunities for our existence.Upcountry Maui urgently requires a leader in the 
State House who possesses expertise in climate change, artificial intelligence, and 
social justice for all. We must cultivate resilience in the face of these challenges, and 
a leader is needed who comprehends the future and will equip us accordingly. Rita 
Ryan has actively engaged in numerous volunteer roles on Maui, including the Maui 
County Climate Action Advisory Committee, the Hawaiian Islands Land Trust Maui 
Council, former head of The Climate Reality Project, Hawaii Chapter, and 350Hawaii.org 
Maui coordinator. She has effectively spearheaded the movement to declare a Climate 
Emergency on Maui, subsequently joined by neighbor islands and the State. Vote Rita 
Ryan!
BALLOT NAME:
RYAN, Rita M.
LEGAL NAME:
Rita M. Ryan 
Green Party
State Representative District 12
ritaryan@buzbuz.biz
(808) 250-5030
No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
YAMASHITA, Kyle T.
LEGAL NAME:
Kyle T. Yamashita 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 12
kyle.yamashita@gmail.com
(808) 870-5874
2024 VOTER GUIDE
33
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 13
 As a conservative/common sense candidate for House Representative for District 
13, I want to see Hawaii do better. Supporting legislation that is best for the people 
must be our priority. The focus these days must be on strengthening the economy; 
protecting our families, including parents’ rights over their children; medical freedom; 
and upholding our constitutional rights, such as our first and second amendments, 
within our great state and constitutional republic. Without our God-given liberties 
remaining strong in our governmental affairs, we are at risk of losing them and giving 
way to other forms of government. Our system was founded on the principle of We the 
People being the governing body, the authority in our society. Lately we have gone 
sideways, but I can help restore our constitutional republic by sponsoring and voting 
for legislation that gives the power back to the people.
BALLOT NAME:
ADAM, Scott
LEGAL NAME: 
Scott L. Adam 
Republican Party
State Representative District 13
ScottAdam@icloud.com
(802) 558-3192
 Aloha! My name is Mahina Poepoe, and I am running for re-election to the State 
House of Representatives. Serving as your representative for the past two years has 
been a privilege and responsibility that I do not take lightly. I’ve worked hard to deliver 
on campaign promises with a voting record clearly reflective of my commitment to 
our people and ‘āina. I’ve participated in introducing more than six-hundred measures 
including bills to protect cultural and natural resources, support small businesses and 
local food systems, expand access to healthcare, provide free meals in public schools, 
and improve public education, disaster preparedness, and government transparency 
and accountability. My focus remains to ensure that the quality of life for our residents 
and the health of our environment are brought to the forefront of decision-making. I 
humbly ask for your vote and continued support in the upcoming election. Ola i ka 
wai, Mahina
BALLOT NAME:
POEPOE, Mahina
LEGAL NAME: 
Mahinamalamalama M. Poepoe 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 13
Votemahina.com
mahinapoepoe13@gmail.com
(808) 658-6010
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
34Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 14
 The state of Hawaii and specifically the west side of Maui need a person that 
will represent “the people” and speak for the people. For too long the people of Maui 
have gone without their voices being heard. Corruption in the state of Hawaii is at an 
all-time high. Homelessness is at an all-time high. Drug use is at an all-time high. The 
cost of living is at an all-time high. Education is at an all-time low. Trans-gender males 
are competing in high school female sports. For over 60 years the Democratic party 
has ruled the state of Hawaii driving it in to a cesspool of filth. The state of Hawaii was 
recently recognized nationally as the “Least affordable” state in America. Let me be 
your voice in making this state the paradise it should be. I will fight for you.
BALLOT NAME:
ARMSTRONG, Kelly J.
LEGAL NAME: 
Kelly J. Armstrong 
Republican Party
State Representative District 14
armstrongcorporation@gmail.com
(760) 333-2332
 Aloha Voters in House District 14, It has been my honor and privilege to serve 
these past two years as your State House Representative. I thank-you from the 
bottom of my heart for your past support and look forward to your future support. I 
have gained much knowledge during the past two years as your State Rep which 
combined with my eight years of past County Council experience will prove to serve 
the needs of our communities brilliantly! As I continue to live in Lahaina where I have 
lived all my life, my heart and soul hurts deeply for the hugest loss none of us could 
ever imagine. As WE rebuild, yes it will take all of us to accomplish this. Know that the 
ENTIRE House District 14 from end to end will be cared for. Have confidence that my 
office as always will be open, responsive and transparent!
BALLOT NAME:
COCHRAN, Elle
LEGAL NAME: 
Eleanora K. Cochran 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 14
voteellecochran.com
cochranelle00@gmail.com
(808) 281-7709
2024 VOTER GUIDE
35
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 15
 David Moranz My current role working with family and family business. 
Ultimate goal how can I help the community and the state of hawaii. Achievements 
maritime captain,fire fighter pacific missile range,heavy equipment operator,plant 
operator,equipment trouble shooter and repairs,I have hands on experience on making 
things work.
BALLOT NAME:
MORANZ, David A.
LEGAL NAME: 
David Anthony Moranz 
Republican Party
State Representative District 15
kilakahi@gmail.com
(808) 651-8882
 It’s an honor to serve as District 15’s State Representative. My interest in public 
service began 14 years ago when I first ran for the Kaua‘i County Council. My goal 
at that time was to “work for a better Kaua‘i.” I served for three years on the County 
Council, three years as Managing Director, and eight years in the State House. For the 
past two years, I ‘ve served as Majority Leader. By building affordable housing, caring 
for our lands and waters, implementing universal preschool education, diversifying 
our economy, and helping families most in need, we can fall flourish and improve our 
quality of life. I humbly ask for your vote so I can continue the important work ahead: 
redeveloping the Kapa‘a public housing, implementing the Mahelona Master Plan for 
more affordable housing and public services, reducing visitor traffic by implementing 
transportation hubs, and supporting locally-grown food.
BALLOT NAME:
NAKAMURA, Nadine K.
LEGAL NAME: 
Nadine K. Nakamura 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 15
NadineNakamura.com
nknplan@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-1507
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
36Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 16
 I’ve lived on Kaua’i my entire life, and I’ve had the honor of serving on the Kaua’i 
County Council for four years and in the Hawai’i State House of Representatives for the 
past two. My mission is simple: to make housing affordable and improve our quality of 
life.   We need homes for local families, not just luxury developments. By simplifying 
regulations, encouraging residential development in and around our existing towns, 
enhancing pedestrian infrastructure, and supporting multigenerational households, 
we can build vibrant, sustainable communities. This will lower housing costs, 
keep families together, reduce carbon emissions, and reduce inequality. It will also 
protect our agricultural lands and ease traffic congestion.   Together, we can ensure 
that future generations can afford to live here, our environment is preserved, and 
our communities thrive. I’m committed to making this vision a reality and would be 
honored to have your support.
BALLOT NAME:
EVSLIN, Luke A.
LEGAL NAME: 
Luke A. Evslin 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 16
www.lukeevslin.com
luke@lukeevslin.com
(808) 635-6623
 No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
YODER, Steve
LEGAL NAME: 
Steven Jay Yoder 
Republican Party
State Representative District 16
Kauaipatriot@gmail.com
(808) 855-5503
2024 VOTER GUIDE
37
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 17
No S tatement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
JAUCH, Michael H.
LEGAL NAME: 
Michael Jauch 
Republican Party
State Representative District 17
Michael@michaeljauch.com
(808) 346-6002
 I have served as a State Representative for 14 years. Prior to running for office I 
worked in County government for 36 years. My whole adult life has been dedicated to 
public service. I have attended every day of the legislative session for all 14 years. As 
a senior member I continue to be engaged in promoting good legislation and doing 
my best to address our district needs and concerns. Becoming House Majority Floor 
Leader has shown the trust and confidence by colleagues in my ability to perform 
the responsibilities of that position, and all that experience and seniority allows me to 
serve the public better. Looking back at our accomplishments and looking forward at 
what’s to come, gives me a heart full of satisfaction and a sense of achievement. I’m 
grateful for and appreciative of constituents’ confidence in my service, and would like 
to continue being your Representative.
BALLOT NAME:
MORIKAWA, Daynette (Dee)
LEGAL NAME: 
Daynette S.P. Morikawa 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 17
daynette.morikawa@gmail.com
(808) 651-8855
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
38Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 20
 Born and raised on Oahu, Tina Nakada Grandinetti, PhD., is running to help build 
a future where local families can afford to live in Hawaii and raise our keiki to care 
for our precious lands and waters. She has dedicated her career to understanding 
Hawaii’s housing and homelessness crisis, and as a postdoctoral fellow working 
at a national policy institute, she brings valuable experience advancing equitable 
housing policies that meet the needs of working families. Previously, she managed 
the office of Representative Perruso, where she worked closely with advocates to draft 
& advance policies on housing, food systems, education, and tax fairness. Tina also 
has a demonstrated record of organizing with community to educate youth, prevent 
the displacement of local families, Shut Down Red Hill, and protect ʻāina for future 
generations. She strongly believes that good governance brings us all together to 
work toward the common good.
BALLOT NAME:
NAKADA GRANDINETTI, Tina
LEGAL NAME: 
Tina Grandinetti 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 20
www.tinaforhawaii.com
friendsoftinagrandinetti@gmail.com
(808) 376-5200
 Aloha, My name is Corinne Solomon. I am a mom, wife, and neighbor, not a career 
politician. As a first generation American raised in my family’s restaurant, I learned a 
strong work ethic early on. With a Doctor of Pharmacy degree from the University of 
the Pacific, I worked in Oahu hospitals before retiring to focus on my family. If elected, 
I will focus on the following: cost of living, community, and clarity in legislation. I will 
vote no on laws that increase living costs and will advocate for government reform to 
reduce expenses. I will listen to your needs and be a voice for our community. I pledge 
to donate 20% of my salary back to District 20—learn more about my “20 for 20” 
pledge on my website. With your vote, together we can make Hawai’i affordable again. 
It would be an honor to represent you. Mahalo!
BALLOT NAME:
SOLOMON, Corinne S.
LEGAL NAME: 
Corinne S. Solomon 
Republican Party
State Representative District 20
SolomonforHawaii.com
SolomonforHawaii@gmail.com
(808) 650-3245
2024 VOTER GUIDE
39
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 21
 As a fourth generation Japanese American born and raised in this district, I am 
proud to call District 21 my home and am honored to serve as its representative for 
four years. Driven by a vision to build a Hawaii where local families can stay and 
thrive, I’ve advocated for legislation to grow affordable housing for locals, increase 
funding for public education programs, and eliminate bureaucratic inefficiencies. 
If elected to serve another term, I hope to work on these issues as well others like 
healthcare workforce development, condominium governance, and converting 
underutilized state properties to affordable housing.
BALLOT NAME:
SAYAMA, Jackson D.
LEGAL NAME: 
Jackson D. Sayama 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 21
www.jacksonsayama.com
jackson@jacksonsayama.com
(808) 772-6145
 Aloha! It is an honor to have the opportunity to ask for your vote so that I may 
serve you in the State House of Representatives. It is the season to correct the root 
of our grave concerns so that we can actualize the betterment of our community. 
Thousands local families fled the islands last year alone citing the cost of living as the 
reason. We must have economic relief through the lowering and restructuring of our 
taxes. We also need the elimination of excessive, debilitating, regulations and policies. 
Legislation must be tough on crime, and be protective of families--the foundation 
of strong communities. Our politicians have been negligent in their spending of 
our money and have been careless with policy when it comes to serving the best 
interests of their constituents. Its time to make change and create a Hawai’i our 
children don’t have to flee.
BALLOT NAME:
SEASHELL, Joelle
LEGAL NAME: 
Joelle M. Seashell 
Republican Party
State Representative District 21
Houserepd21@gmail.com
(808) 799-0253
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
40Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 22
 It has been the honor of a lifetime serving District 22 as your state representative, 
and I am deeply grateful for the trust you have placed in me. In my first term, we 
achieved significant progress by passing historic tax cuts to support working 
families, continued needed investments in public education and took tangible steps 
to strengthen our healthcare system. However, our work is far from over. I have 
dedicated my entire professional career to public service, and I am seeking re-
election to continue the momentum we’ve built in tackling some of Hawaiʻi’s most 
intractable issues. As the father of two beautiful daughters, I am deeply committed to 
ensuring that their generation can thrive here in Hawaiʻi and are not forced to leave 
the islands to pursue opportunities elsewhere. Together, let’s keep pushing forward for 
a brighter future for all. Mahalo for your support!
BALLOT NAME:
GARRETT, Andrew Takuya
LEGAL NAME: 
Andrew Takuya Garrett 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 22
www.andrewtakuyagarrett.com
andrewtakuyagarrett@gmail.com
(808) 354-1108
 No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
IMAMURA, Jeffrey H.
LEGAL NAME: 
Jeffrey H. Imamura 
Republican Party
State Representative District 22
jeffimamuraforhawaii@gmail.com
(808) 927-0660
2024 VOTER GUIDE
41
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 24
 Jillian Anderson – the “let’s actually get things done” choice. At age three I moved 
to Waikiki, attended Sacred Hearts Academy from K-12, and graduated summa cum 
laude from UH Manoa having studied three business disciplines (finance, marketing, 
and entrepreneurship) and history. In just a few short years, many aspects of our state 
have become unrecognizable. Costs are unbearable, homelessness is rampant, crime 
is commonplace, our infrastructure is crumbling, and quality of life is on the decline. 
For three legislative sessions I have been in the trenches working for our State House 
(first as a Legislative Analyst and presently as the Chief-of-Staff for the House Minority 
Policy Leader) and am involved with our community as a member of our Waikiki 
Neighborhood Board. We can no longer just idly watch our many problems worsen 
– we need action. Learn more about what I’d do at: www.jillianforhawaii.com or @
jillianforhawaii (Instagram).
BALLOT NAME:
ANDERSON, Jillian T.
LEGAL NAME: 
Jillian T. Anderson 
Republican Party
State Representative District 24
www.jillianforhawaii.com
jillianforhawaii@gmail.com
 My name is Adrian Tam. Born and raised right here in Honolulu, I am a proud 
graduate of Kalani High School. After graduating from Penn State, I returned home 
to work for my family’s small business. Inspired by my community and desire to see 
positive change, I found my way into public service at the Hawaii State Legislature. 
After several years as a staffer, I was honored to be elected your State Representative 
in 2020 during the height of COVID-19 pandemic. My mission is simple: make life better 
for my neighbors. This means addressing public safety, noise pollution, and cost of 
living while securing crucial funding for important projects for our neighborhood. 
My other priorities include critical issues facing the state, such as homelessness, 
economic diversification, affordable housing, and protecting our environment. It would 
be an honor to serve you again, and I humbly ask for your support.
BALLOT NAME:
TAM, Adrian
LEGAL NAME: 
Adrian K. Tam 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 24
adrianforhawaii.com
info@adrianforhawaii.com
(808) 388-8281
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
42Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 27
 I have been married for 31 years with 3 adult sons and a thriving real estate 
career. I am a homeowner, business owner, and an investor. I was born and raised 
in Philippines. My parents are second-generation Chinese immigrants. I am alumni 
of the University of Hawaii, Manoa. I am well connected with our local churches and 
a member of the Honolulu Board of Realtors. My work ethics, integrity, hard work, 
passion, and strong background in business operations will be a great asset and 
contribution to our State. My top goals include safeguarding and promoting the 
welfare our children; reducing crime, illegal drug use, bureaucratic red tape, and 
unnecessary spending of taxpayer’s money; managing our homelessness. My ethics 
include transparency, responsibility, and accountability. I am running for office to give 
back and make a difference in the lives of the people of Hawaii. I humbly ask for your 
support.
BALLOT NAME:
LIM, Margaret U.
LEGAL NAME: 
Margaret U. Lim 
Republican Party
State Representative District 27
www.lim4hawaii.com
margaret@lim4hawaii.com
(808) 551-4532
 I’ve worked hard to create open, responsive communication with neighbors to 
best represent your interests at the Legislature and assist with community needs. 
I’m committed to continuing frequent mail, email, and phone correspondence as 
well as community meetings and sponsoring bills with residents to give voice to 
your priorities. As Vice Chair of the Health & Homelessness Committee, I focused 
on medical workforce shortages, expanding mental health and substance abuse 
programs, homeless services based on lasting continuums of care, and long-term 
care options to help kupuna age in place. There is much more work to be done on 
these issues plus community concerns about crime, cost of living, housing, and 
preserving the character and quality of our neighborhoods that I will continue to 
address if re-elected. It has been a privilege to represent this district and I humbly ask 
for your support again. Thank you for your consideration.
BALLOT NAME:
TAKENOUCHI, Jenna
LEGAL NAME: 
Jenna W.Y.C. Takenouchi 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 27
jennatakenouchi.com
jenna.takenouchi@gmail.com
(808) 368-7311
2024 VOTER GUIDE
43
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 29
 OBJECTIVE: To secure a thriving future for our community and all of Hawaiʻi 
through principled leadership. FAMILY: - Lardizabal Family (mother’s side) from 
Tagudin, Ilocos Sur - Hussey Family (father’s side) from Kohala, Hawaii Island - Spouse 
& three children WORK: - Developer of community-owned solar projects and climate 
change technology - Previously: Hawaii State Legislature; UNITE HERE Local 5 NON-
PROFIT BOARDS: - Domestic Violence Action Center (Treasurer) - Hanahau‘oli School 
- Hawaii Housing Development Corporation - HAPA - Kalihi Valley Neighborhood Board 
- Aina Aloha Economic Futures (Treasurer) EDUCATION: - MA, Political Science (UH 
Manoa) - BA, Peace & Futures Studies (UH Manoa) HOBBIES: - Musician - Learning 
new things (science in particular) KEY ISSUES: - Ending corruption - Addressing the 
root causes of homelessness and housing insecurity - Parking management, roads, 
pedestrian safety - Crime and safety - Proper allocation of state budget
BALLOT NAME:
HUSSEY, Ikaika Lardizabal
LEGAL NAME: 
Ikaika M.L. Hussey 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 29
ikaika.house
ikaikahussey@gmail.com
(808) 221-2843
 I’m running for office because: I am a public servant and caring for our 
community is what the Lord has called me to do. Godly values are no longer evident 
in our government and leadership. Missing are the basic things like, don’t lie, 
don’t cheat, don’t steal, and don’t kill. For the last decade I’ve been working at the 
Legislature, serving our community and State, and I don’t see things getting better. 
People are leaving, businesses are closing, crime is out of control, and our community 
is suffering. I’ve grown up in this community, Ma’ema’e Elementary, Kamehameha 
Intermediate and High. Worked for New Hope, at the State Capitol, Kamehameha 
Schools Preschools, and Kalihi Union Church. Served on the Neighborhood Board, and 
Lanakila Multi-Purpose Senior Center Board for over a decade. I love my community it 
would be an honor to represent you, please vote for Kaapu, Carole Kauhiwai.
BALLOT NAME:
KAAPU, Carole Kauhiwai
LEGAL NAME: 
Carole Kauhiwai Kaapu 
Republican Party
State Representative District 29
CaroleKaapu.org
Carole.Kaapu@gmail.com
(805) 628-2822
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
44Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 30
 No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
AZINGA, P. M.
LEGAL NAME: 
P. M. Azinga 
Republican Party
State Representative District 30
azinga-district30.godaddysites.com
nzhinza@gmail.com
(808) 202-1341
 Shirley is an experienced public servant with a decade of service in her 
professional career. She served seven years with the City and County of Honolulu, 
City Council Legislature resolving public concerns, spearheading community projects, 
and monitoring city legislation. Shirley then embarked in entrepreneurship to help 
local businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic. With her business partner, they 
established ‘Ilima Marketing, a digital marketing agency to specifically help mom-
and-pop shops. Shirley expanded her government career by serving two consecutive 
sessions at the Hawaii State Legislature analyzing, processing and crafting state 
legislative bills and resolutions. Shirley is a committed and passionate public 
servant who volunteers to uplift various communities. She is on the Kalihi-Palama 
Neighborhood Board, Farrington High School School Community Council, and is the 
Chair-Woman with the Democratic Party House District 30 Council. She is also the co-
founder of Keeping Up With Kalihi, an online group dedicated to empowering Kalihi.
BALLOT NAME:
TEMPLO, Shirley Ann Labadan
LEGAL NAME: 
Shirley Ann Labadan Templo 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 30
shirleytemplo.com
shirley@shirleytemplo.com
(808) 748-9990
2024 VOTER GUIDE
45
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 31
 Aloha! My name is Linda Ichiyama and it has been an honor to serve as your 
State Representative since 2010. I was born and raised in Salt Lake and I am proud to 
call it home. I graduated from Salt Lake Elementary School, Moanalua Middle School, 
Moanalua High School, then went on to Georgetown University and UH Manoa William 
S. Richardson School of Law. I work closely with our area legislators to improve our 
schools, like the new MoHS Performing Arts Center and baseball/softball field. I 
humbly ask for your support in this 2024 election. Please feel free to contact me at 
repichiyama@gmail.com with any questions or concerns.
BALLOT NAME:
ICHIYAMA, Linda
LEGAL NAME: 
Linda E.I. Chong 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 31
www.lindaichiyama.com
Lindaichiyama@gmail.com
(808) 392-4547
 Aloha, I am Nancy Valdez. I am 55 and reside in the Moanalua/Salt Lake area, 
District 31. As a candidate for the Hawai’i House Representative seat in District 31, I 
pledge to be a trustworthy and reliable advocate for our community. My mission is to 
listen to and address the concerns of community members with transparency and 
accountability. Our community deserves a leader who will take immediate action to 
address issues, respond to complaints, promote safety, welcoming new ideas and 
approaches to improve our community’s well-being and quality of life. Mahalo, Nancy 
Valdez
BALLOT NAME:
VALDEZ, Nancy A.
LEGAL NAME: 
Nancy A. Valdez 
Republican Party
State Representative District 31
nancyavaldez@yahoo.com
(808) 489-3128
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
46Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 32
 Aloha. I am running for reelection to State House of Representatives to continue 
to represent the residents of District 32. For my whole life, 35 short years, I have seen 
my mom, Senator Donna Mercado Kim, make a positive impact, making Hawaii a 
better place for me to live. It is now time for my generation to step up. I have lived in 
Moanalua my whole life. Our community deserves leadership from the community 
that is honest, transparent, and accountable. I will work tirelessly to build trust with 
the people I serve and to ensure that their voices are heard in every decision I make. I 
will be a strong, effective voice, advocating for policies that make sense, and ensuring 
that our government serves the people, relying on my 8 years of experience as a 
attorney. I am honored to serve and thank you for your consideration and vote.
BALLOT NAME:
AIU, Micah Pookela Kim
LEGAL NAME: 
Micah Pookela Kim Aiu 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 32
micahaiu.com
vote@micahaiu.com
(808) 429-9335
 Aloha Friends, Inspired by a deep call to serve our community, I’m excited to 
announce my candidacy for the 2024 election. In 2022, we were just 246 votes away 
from a significant change, despite a late start. This shows the incredible potential 
we have together. Now, more than ever, we need integrity and leadership in our 
government. I’m committed to making a positive impact not just today, but for future 
generations. I am a business, community and church leader with 30+ years of 
experience. By managing a family business and holding elected positions as President 
of the Moanalua Valley Community Association and the Sheet Metal Contractors 
Association, I have gained essential skills needed to serve and make decisions 
benefiting others. I humbly ask for your continued trust, support, and prayers. We can 
change the course of our destiny, but I can’t do it without your vote. Mahalo, Garner 
Shimizu
BALLOT NAME:
SHIMIZU, Garner Musashi
LEGAL NAME: 
Garner M. Shimizu 
Republican Party
State Representative District 32
voteshimizu.com
voteshimizu@gmail.com
2024 VOTER GUIDE
47
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 34
 Hello my name is Gaius please feel free to call me Kipi. I live in pearl city, pacific 
palisades. As you may wonder. why should you vote for someone like me? what do 
I bring to the table? what changes can I make? what do I know? These are all great 
questions but I can’t answer them with the 150 words I’m allowed to fit in this box. 
What I can tell you is that I’m not happy with how our politicians, our government 
leaders and the people in charge are doing to our home, our communities. You voting 
for me means you are hiring me to work for you, Im in this community you will see me 
walking, you will see me catching the bus, which means you will be able to personally 
explain your needs and wants to me. A real voice of the people. Thank you
BALLOT NAME:
DUPIO, Gaius, II
LEGAL NAME: 
Gaius K. Dupio II
Republican Party
State Representative District 34
gpearlcity@gmail.com
(808) 343-7314
 Gregg Takayama has served in the State House for 12 years, after a career as 
an award-winning journalist and communications director for the late U.S. Senator 
Dan Inouye and UH-Manoa. His legislative accomplishments include authoring 
laws for State assistance to family caregivers (the first in the nation), creation of the 
corrections oversight commission to improve prisons and jails, and clamping down 
on illegal aerial fireworks through a State task force. Gregg has secured more than 
$60 million for improvements to Pearl City schools for new classrooms, modern 
education technology and air-conditioning. His re-election is endorsed by the Hawaii 
State Teachers Association. He helped increase State funding for senior programs 
that enable frail elderly to live safely at home, with delivered meals, home care 
services and transportation. Gregg has been honored by the AARP with its top Capitol 
Caregiver Award and the Alzheimer’s Association for helping those suffering dementia.
BALLOT NAME:
TAKAYAMA, Gregg
LEGAL NAME: 
Gregg Takayama 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 34
greggtakayama.com
greggtakayama@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 382-3212
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
48Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 37
 What is your vision? What are your hopes and dreams for Hawaii? What are our 
children’s visions? What are the hopes and dreams for our Keiki of Hawaii? Knowledge 
is key and applied knowledge unlocks the doors to pono choices to Aloha Hawaii.
BALLOT NAME:
KAAUMOANA, Taylor
LEGAL NAME: 
Taylor K. Kaaumoana 
Republican Party
State Representative District 37
votetaylork.com
votetaylork@gmail.com
(808) 342-9160
 Aloha, As State Representative for District 37 , I’ve worked hard to ensure that the 
residents in our community feel heard, valued, and supported. In the past two years, 
we’ve improved neighborhood safety, restored school bus services, reopened the 
Mililani hockey rink, cleared the Kipapa gulch homeless encampment, and protected 
our keiki from the harms of e-cigarettes. But there’s more to do. I’m running for a 
second term in 2024 to continue fighting for the issues that matter most. Policies I’ll 
continue to champion will focus on prioritizing public safety, addressing housing 
affordability and cost of living, investing in our schools, supporting local businesses, 
and ensuring better healthcare and transportation access for our community. As 
a mom raising my kids in our district, I’m committed to ensuring our community 
remains the best place to live and raise our families. Together, we can make a real 
difference. In service, Trish
BALLOT NAME:
LA CHICA, Trish
LEGAL NAME: 
Mae Patricia Q. La Chica 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 37
www.trishlachica.com
hello@trishlachica.com
(808) 799-4620
2024 VOTER GUIDE
49
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 38
 It has been a privilege serving Mililani as your representative for the past 
12 years. Born and raised in this community and now raising my own family, this 
community is my heart. I proudly attended Mililani’s schools and went on to receive 
my Bachelors from University of Hawai‘i, Masters from Hawai‘i Pacific University 
and Doctorate from Argosy University. My education, coupled with my legislative 
experience, equips me to represent our district effectively. Since being elected in 
2012, I have worked to gain the experience necessary to serve you and be an effective 
representative in the legislature. Open communication with you remains my top 
priority, ensuring your voices shape policy on important issues such as the high cost 
of living, housing, homelessness, crime and government transparency. However, it’s 
my unwavering commitment and connection to Mililani that truly qualifies me and it 
would be an honor to continue to serve you.
BALLOT NAME:
CHEAPE MATSUMOTO, Lauren
LEGAL NAME: 
Lauren K. Matsumoto 
Republican Party
State Representative District 38
laurenforhawaii.com
lauren@laurenforhawaii.com
(808) 358-7816
 Mililani is the best town in Hawaii. It has been a safe haven for three generations 
of my family, and I’m committed to ensuring that it can foster and inspire many 
generations to come. We can address the cost of living crisis by providing resources 
for housing, food and agriculture, education, and transportation. Mililani needs 
representation that will focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion for all of our citizens. 
Organized labor, livable wages, universal health care, women’s rights, and ensuring a 
safe and welcoming environment for people of all colors and faiths are essential for a 
vibrant and thriving democracy. With your support, I will be a collaborative, accessible, 
transparent, and an effective Legislator representing you in the Hawaiʻi State Capitol.
BALLOT NAME:
OZAWA, Alexander Kekuanao’a
LEGAL NAME: 
Alexander Mori Kekuanaoa Ozawa 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 38
alexozawa.com
alexozawa@gmail.com
(808) 554-1772
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
50Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 39
 Aloha Neighbor! You are the priority. Serving you is what it is all about. My goals 
are for our community to have: -less crime -lower cost of living -less expensive 
housing -less homelessness -better education -less traffic If given the opportunity 
to serve you for another two years, these will be my focus points. Please continually 
connect with me by calling/texting my personal cell: (808)-258-3235. I would love to 
hear from you.
BALLOT NAME:
PIERICK, Elijah
LEGAL NAME: 
Elijah I. Pierick 
Republican Party
State Representative District 39
elijahpierick.com
elijah.pierick.publicservant@gmail.com
(808) 258-3235
 Corey Rosenlee is committed to fighting for working families and delivering 
a brighter future for generations to come. He has been a social studies teacher at 
Campbell High School for almost twenty years. Under his guidance, thousands of 
West O’ahu children have learned the importance of civic engagement, community 
problem-solving, and social responsibility. From 2015-2021, Corey served as the 
President of the Hawai’i State Teachers Association, where he worked to increase 
school funding, raise teacher pay, and provide air conditioning to cool our public 
education system’s overheated classrooms. He is currently a member of the ‘Ewa 
Neighborhood Board. From affordable housing to traffic mitigation to emergency 
preparedness, Corey understands the essential issues impacting our state. A lifelong 
champion of Hawai’i’s most vulnerable people, he is ready to restore integrity to local 
government and provide real solutions to the problems faced by residents of our 
island home.
BALLOT NAME:
ROSENLEE, Corey
LEGAL NAME: 
Corey A. Rosenlee 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 39
www.coreyrosenlee.com
coreyrosenlee@gmail.com
(808) 677-3537
2024 VOTER GUIDE
51
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 40
As the current State House Representative of district 40. I am seeking re- election 
to continue the projects I have started in my district. Ongoing and future constructions 
will be underway as a result of the capital improvement projects I was able to secure 
for all the schools in my district. I also introduced and co introduced several bills and 
a couple of resolutions that have passed and will be adapted into law that will provide 
positive impact in the community. Aside from funding school projects, I was also able 
to secure funding from Grant in Aid for Weed and Seed, Hawaii Humane Society and 
Kuleana Coral Restoration. There are other accomplishments that were done such as 
installing a shelter in one of the bus stops in Hanakahi Street and providing solutions 
to complaints by constituents. I will continue to work hard for my district.
BALLOT NAME:
MARTINEZ, Rose
LEGAL NAME:
Rosebella Locquiao Ellazar-Martinez 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 40
rosebella.martinez@icloud.com
(808) 224-1261
My name is Julie Reyes Oda and I am running for office because I believe that we 
can do better to secure our future in Hawai’i. Our community comes first. As your next 
state representative, I am committed to being your voice in the State House. If elected, 
I will fight for good schools, good jobs, safe communities, a strong economy, cutting 
government waste, and transparency in government. I will be an independent voice 
for our community and I humbly ask for your support. Please visit JulieReyesOda.com 
to learn more about me.
BALLOT NAME:
REYES ODA, Julie
LEGAL NAME:
Julie K. Reyes Oda 
Republican Party
State Representative District 40
juliereyesoda.com
juliereyesoda@gmail.com
(808) 953-2054
As your independent candidate for the State House in the 40th district of 
Hawaii, I am committed to demanding accountability and delivering results for our 
community. We deserve leadership that fights for fair treatment and takes decisive 
action. I am determined to address the critical issues facing our district. From 
ensuring transparency and fairness in our utility rates to protecting our environment 
and ensuring safe, clean water, I will work tirelessly for solutions that benefit us all. 
Our community deserves more attention and respect. We need to make Ewa Beach a 
vibrant hub with more community events and stronger local leadership. It’s time for 
Ewa Beach, Ewa, Westlock, and Iroquois Point to get the recognition and support they 
deserve. Let’s make it happen. P.S. Describing this image for the visually impaired, my 
speech and expression, featuring diverse cultural symbols, flags, and flowers behind 
me in hunting camouflage. ALOHA
BALLOT NAME:
ULUFANUA, Christian P.
LEGAL NAME:
Christian P. Ulufanua 
We The People
State Representative District 40
ulufanua4ewa.com
ulufanua.christian@gmail.com
(915) 808-6800
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
52Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 41
 Aloha, I am David Alcos, deeply rooted in our Ewa Beach community for five 
generations. With a background in contracting and coaching, I have dedicated over 20 
years to serving our community. I am committed to making our state a better place to 
live, focusing on education, safety, access, homelessness, and community well-being. 
I am passionate about creating a brighter future for all. Thank you for your support as I 
continue striving to make positive changes for our community and future generations.
BALLOT NAME:
ALCOS, David A., III
LEGAL NAME: 
David A. Alcos III
Republican Party
State Representative District 41
RepAlcos.com
teamalcos41@gmail.com
(808) 864-6928
 Serving country, community, and you… After serving in our nation’s Navy for 
30 years and now entering my 10th year serving on the ‘Ewa Neighborhood Board, 
my commitment to community and love of service continues to grow. District 41 
(‘Ewa Beach, ‘Ewa Gentry, Ocean Pointe, Kalaʻeloa, part of Ko Olina) is one of the 
most diverse and densely populated areas on Oahu. I want to ensure our growing 
community is proactively preparing for long-range success. That means working 
collaboratively with other lawmakers and focusing on increasing the number of jobs 
in our Community; seeking solutions for safer neighborhoods; supporting plans for 
affordable housing; and ensuring a quality education for our youth. I have a Bachelor’s 
Degree in Business Management, a Master’s Degree in Contract Management, and I 
am a business owner and founder of a local non-profit organization. My goal: continue 
serving country, community, and you!
BALLOT NAME:
CLARK, John H., III
LEGAL NAME: 
John H. Clark III
Democratic Party
State Representative District 41
friendsofjohnclark.com
info@friendsofjohnclark.com
(808) 428-1564
2024 VOTER GUIDE
53
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 42
 Aloha Kākou, Mahalo for taking the time to read through Hawaii’s new voter 
guide. My name is Diamond Garcia and I’m truly humbled to have had the opportunity 
of representing you and your ‘Ohana in the House of Representatives over these last 
two years. Since being elected by the people in our community in 2022, I’m happy to 
report that we’ve hit the ground running, championing the issues important to our 
West O’ahu families. I humbly ask for your support and vote to be re-elected to the 
House of Representatives so that we can continue fighting against Hawaii’s political 
machine, while working to get things done for our community. We can no longer 
sit by, electing the same type of politicians who keep increasing our cost of living 
while watching local families pack up and move to the US continent. Mahalo for your 
consideration! Ke Akua Pū (GodBlessYou)
BALLOT NAME:
GARCIA, Diamond
LEGAL NAME: 
Diamond D. Garcia 
Republican Party
State Representative District 42
DiamondGarcia.com
RepresentativeGarcia@gmail.com
(808) 953-0483
 Aloha: I’m Anthony Makana Paris. Raised in Nānākuli and now a homeowner in 
Kapolei, I come from a labor family, and I have worked with the ironworkers for the 
last 13 years. I have degrees in engineering, theology, and law from MIT, Santa Clara, 
and UH’s Richardson School of Law. I serve our community as Chair of the Makakilo/
Kapolei/Honokai Hale Neighborhood Board, First Vice President of the Association 
of Hawaiian Civic Clubs, and Board Member for the Waiʻanae Coast Comprehensive 
Health Center. Our communities struggle with grueling traffic, unaffordable 
housing, crime, disappearing jobs, aging and climate-vulnerable infrastructure, and 
underfunded education. Addressing these means building a place for local families 
by addressing food security; expanding shoreline parks and protecting watersheds; 
repairing infrastructure; finishing Honolulu Rail; and funding OHA and DHHL as part of 
a statewide solution for affordable housing. Together, we can leave Hawaiʻi better for 
future generations. Mahalo!
BALLOT NAME:
PARIS, Anthony Makana
LEGAL NAME: 
Anthony Makana Paris 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 42
www.votemakana.com
makana4house@gmail.com
(808) 398-2468
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
54Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 45
 Aloha, my name is Desiré De Soto. I am a proud lifelong resident of Mākaha 
and a product of Hawaiʻi’s public schools. I attended Mākaha Elementary, Waiʻanae 
Intermediate, and Pearl City High School (‘91), where I excelled in swimming on a 
district exception. My commitment to our community is unwavering. After earning a 
bachelor’s degree from Whitworth College (‘96), I returned to Waiʻanae as a teacher 
and later pursued school counseling at Chaminade University (‘01). My goal has 
always been to provide the best support for keiki in our community, a mission deeply 
rooted in my kupuna’s teachings. I completed a Ph.D. in organizational psychology, 
during which I supported the creation of the Wai’anae to Whitworth ‘Auwai and 
Papahana ‘o Kaiona (ALP). As a dedicated school counselor, I will continue to advocate 
for our residents’ social, emotional, physical, mental, and economic well-being. For 
more information, visit www.desiredesoto.com.
BALLOT NAME:
DESOTO, Desire Auguste
LEGAL NAME: 
Desire A. DeSoto 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 45
desiredesoto.com
desiredesoto@gmail.com
(808) 561-1110
 I can help create the change we need to get our community ALOHA back. I would 
love to hear from you and earn your vote.
BALLOT NAME:
MURAOKA, Chris
LEGAL NAME: 
Christopher L. Muraoka 
Republican Party
State Representative District 45
chris4waianae@gmail.com
2024 VOTER GUIDE
55
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 46
 As a native of central O’ahu, I am passionate about representing the communities 
in which I grew up. I attended Kanoelani Elementary and Hanalani Schools before 
earning a bachelor’s degree in business administration with an emphasis in 
accounting from the University of Hawaii – West O’ahu. I was raised across central 
O’ahu including Whitmore, Wahiawa, Mililani & Waipio. In 2021, My wife, two boys 
and I purchased an old plantation-style home in Wahiawa, bringing my journey full 
circle. As an active community member and father of a young family in Wahiawa, 
I’ve observed that our people want to know their representative hears them and is 
working hard to preserve their way of life. I would be honored to protect and preserve 
our district for our children in the years to come.
BALLOT NAME:
GABRIEL, Daniel Michael
LEGAL NAME: 
Daniel M. Gabriel 
Republican Party
State Representative District 46
dannymgabe@gmail.com
(808) 219-7078
 I will continue to fight for clean elections and honest government. It is imperative 
that we lay a solid foundation of good governance so that we can mitigate the 
effects of the climate crisis in ways that just and equitable, and center community 
well-being through the creation of food and energy sovereignty, more robust support 
for public health and public education, thoughtful development of truly affordable 
housing and better stewardship of our public trust resources like wai and ‘āina. I will 
always prioritize those who are most vulnerable, and will continue to work to foster 
public confidence in government through intentional work around truth-telling and 
relationship building. I know that my community is willing to engage in the hard work 
that will be necessary to make this a government about which we can justly feel both 
proud and protective, and I am honored to do this work with you.
BALLOT NAME:
PERRUSO, Amy A.
LEGAL NAME: 
Amy A. Perruso 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 46
voteamyperruso.com
amyperruso@gmail.com
(808) 351-0980
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
56Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 47
 “Servant Leadership” – Listening and supporting your goals, security and 
livelihood. I am a retired firefighter and a civil servant by nature. I believe in protecting 
our children, parents’ rights and our religious beliefs. I support the sanctity of 
women’s sports and their right to privacy, our right to self-defense and the rule of 
law that protects our family and neighbors. I do not support mandatory vaccines, 
masks or lockdowns. We must eliminate wasteful government spending, install term 
limits and our government needs to be more efficient. Housing, food and gas prices 
are unacceptable. I want what is best for my family and I am sure you do as well. In 
the past I have struggled financially and worried about the future and it’s a dreadful 
feeling. As a servant, I hope to lead our community to a better life.
BALLOT NAME:
AGUIRRE, John W. (Johnny)
LEGAL NAME: 
John W. Aguirre 
Republican Party
State Representative District 47
johnnydist47.com
votejohnny47@gmail.com
(808) 754-2197
 Eight years ago I was elected to represent the North Shore and Ko’olauloa with 
two very concrete goals – fix the drainage at Kahuku High, and get a bypass road at 
Laniakea. We finished our drainage project in 2020, and construction of the Laniakea 
bypass will commence this summer. I can’t thank all of you enough for your support 
through the years, and as always if you have an issue please give me a call, I will get 
back to you as soon as humanly possible. Mahalo nui loa, Sean
BALLOT NAME:
QUINLAN, Sean
LEGAL NAME: 
Sean A. Quinlan 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 47
voteseanquinlan.com
seanquinlan82@gmail.com
(808) 388-2823
2024 VOTER GUIDE
57
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 48
 Aloha, my name is Asheemo Nefertiti Daily. I’m 21 years old and running for State 
Representative of District 48. I graduated from Castle High School and am a member 
of the Green Party. I value the voices of our community, and my intention is to uplift 
and empower youth to take responsible action towards the golden future of Hawai’i 
that we want to see manifest. Aloha ʻĀina—let us return the people to the land.
BALLOT NAME:
DAILY, Asheemo N. (Koda)
LEGAL NAME: 
Asheemo Nefertiti Daily 
Green Party
State Representative District 48
www.thedailybred.com
koda@wisdomcircles.com
(808) 349-9923
 Aloha! My name is Lisa Kitagawa and I have the privilege of serving as the 
State Representative for House District 48 since 2018. I am born and raised in 
Kāneʻohe and attended Ben Parker Elementary, King Intermediate, and Castle 
High Schools. I also attended the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa and received a 
bachelor’s degree in Family Resources and a master’s degree in Higher Education 
Administration. I currently serve as the Vice Chair of the Finance Committee. Over 
the last 6 years, I have been able to support our district by introducing and passing 
legislation that supports our community’s schools, protects our natural resources, 
including Kāneʻohe Bay and our Koʻolau Mountain watershed, and bringing in 
approximately $240 million in operating and capital improvement project funding 
for my communities. I have also addressed community issues, such as our growing 
homeless population, concerns over cesspools, and little fire ant infestations.
BALLOT NAME:
KITAGAWA, Lisa C.
LEGAL NAME: 
Lisa C. Kitagawa-Akagi 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 48
www.lisakitagawa.com
vote.kitagawa@gmail.com
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
58Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 49
 Representative Scot Matayoshi has served District 49 for six years. He is currently 
Chair of the Labor and Government Operations Committee, where he seeks to fill 
vacant state positions to improve government services, set labor policy to balance 
both public and private interests, and improve government efficiency. Rep. Matayoshi 
has brought in over $125 million in district projects since he took office, the majority 
of that for our schools. He has organized drive thru flu shot clinics, war memorial 
restorations, ewaste recycle drives, stream cleanups, and Castle Complex school 
supply drives. During the pandemic, Rep. Matayoshi brought the Farm to Car program 
to Windward Mall, allowing farmers to safely sell produce boxes directly to residents. 
He also passed Farm to State legislation, requiring the State to purchase an increasing 
percentage of its produce from local sources. If reelected, Rep. Matayoshi will 
continue to fight for our district.
BALLOT NAME:
MATAYOSHI, Scot
LEGAL NAME: 
Scot P. Matayoshi 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 49
scot@scotmatayoshi.com
 After seeing the legislation session firsthand, I wanted to become one of the 
voices that will help shape the current and future Hawai’i we want to see. Although 
I lack true political experience, I have something I feel is equally important: a deep 
lover for the community and a desire to push for the betterment of our home and our 
people. Through my content on social media, I’ve been able to make the people of 
Hawai’i laugh. I am now asking to give me a chance to make the people proud. Mahalo 
for your vote! Josiah “BrahKruz” Ubando
BALLOT NAME:
UBANDO, Josiah (BrahKruz)
LEGAL NAME: 
Josiah Ubando 
Republican Party
State Representative District 49
www.brahkruz.com
josiah.nku@gmail.com
(808) 277-4337
2024 VOTER GUIDE
59
General ElectionGeneral ElectionState Representative District 50
 I am Brigadier General (Ret) Tim Connelly and I’m running to represent District 50 
in the Hawaii House of Representatives because Kailua and Hawaii need an inspiring 
leader with the courage to drive drastic improvements in Hawaii. I have led American 
Soldiers in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan and through a global pandemic with 
enormous success. I will fight to protect our citizens, reduce crime and homelessness, 
grow our economy, educate our children, improve our infrastructure, and overhaul 
our emergency disaster response system. I am a father to two amazing daughters 
and a foster parent of three years. COST OF LIVING IS TOP OF MIND IN HAWAII! We 
must lower it to help keep our families and our children from having to move to the 
Mainland. I will fully support our police, first responders and the Hawaii National 
Guard. I am the strategic leader we need for District 50.
BALLOT NAME:
CONNELLY, Timothy D.
LEGAL NAME: 
Timothy D. Connelly 
Republican Party
State Representative District 50
tim@connellyforkailua.com
(407) 487-6177
 My name is Mike Lee and I live with my wife and 2 sons on Kālaheo Hillside. 
Kailua is our home and where my family was born and raised. I am running to 
represent you in the State Legislature to improve residential life on the windward side 
by strengthening our education system, getting tough on crime, easing burdensome 
taxes, and protecting our natural resources. I am an educator, small business owner, 
and community leader. I have extensive experience advancing community initiatives 
with government, local businesses, non-profits, and schools. As a member of this 
community, I understand the daily challenges facing our residents. My priorities 
will focus on and address the concerns of Kailua and Kāne‘ohe neighbors like you. I 
humbly ask you for your support in this election. Letʻs work together to protect our 
way of life on the windward side for generations to come.
BALLOT NAME:
LEE, Mike
LEGAL NAME: 
Michael G.K. Lee 
Democratic Party
State Representative District 50
mikeleeforhawaii.com
mikeleeforhawaii@gmail.com
(808) 388-6222
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
60Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionOﬃ   ce of Hawaiian Aﬀ  airs Molokai Resident Trustee
 I am Luana Alapa running for re-election as Trustee for OHA Molokai- Lanai. 
As a native Hawaiian woman I am blessed with a position to serve our Hawaiian 
beneficiaries in the following ways: Education, housing, health & economic stability. I 
am committed to ensuring these objectives are met. One of my goals as Trustee is to 
partner with other Hawaiian agencies in working towards supporting initiatives for 
affordable housing- home repairs, expanding healthcare in rural areas, offering mental 
health services which are badly needed on my island of Molokai, increasing funds 
for educational scholarships, and vocational training for our Lahui. As a homesteader 
in Ho’olehua I understand these challenges as I am currently facing them myself. 
Together with your support we can create a brighter future for our Lahui. When 
Hawaiians thrive, all of Hawaii thrives. Being of service to others is the greatest gift 
you can give.
BALLOT NAME:
ALAPA, Luana
LEGAL NAME: 
Sandra Luana Alapa 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs Molokai 
Resident Trustee
Alapa4oha.com
luanaalapa@gmail.com
(808) 782-1119
 O Kunani Nihipali ko’u inoa, a descendant of Kalawao and a Beneficiary of 
Ho’olehua Homestead, Molokai. Presently, we live in a very polarized society. The 1993 
Apology Law, 31 years ago guarantees us Native Hawaiians a path of Reconciliation, 
but as Native Hawaiians, we’ve experienced an empty Apology, feeling censored, 
coerced & co-opted politically, economically, socially & culturally. An Apology is 
more than Recognition and needs to restore equity onto Native Hawaiians as these 
historical grievances have proven to be very detrimental. We have shared peacefully 
with the Peoples of Hawaii, and the world, since the first Foreigners stepped foot upon 
our Nation’s shores. Reconciliation, not divisiveness is that path towards equitable 
solutions from historic injustices. Cultural sensitivity is important, otherwise planning 
is only half a plan that will help to restore faith in lokahi.
BALLOT NAME:
NIHIPALI, R. Kunani
LEGAL NAME: 
Ronald Kunani Nihipali Sr.
Office of Hawaiian Affairs Molokai 
Resident Trustee
huliau2014@gmail.com
(808) 349-6407
2024 VOTER GUIDE
61
General ElectionGeneral ElectionOﬃ   ce of Hawaiian Aﬀ  airs Kauai Resident Trustee
 No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
AHUNA, Dan
LEGAL NAME: 
Daniel C. Ahuna III
Office of Hawaiian Affairs Kauai Resident 
Trustee
ahunadan@gmail.com
(808) 631-1125
 When does Hawaii stop being Hawaii? When there are no Hawaiians? Today 
more than 65% of Hawaiians are living outside of Hawaii. The situation is critical. The 
patient is dying. We need to stop the hemorrhaging. We must adapt and act urgently 
and creatively to use our resources to fill the gaps and keep our families whole 
and at home. For over three decades I have lived and served here on our beloved 
Kauai. I have worked tirelessly to help our families. My love for the children and their 
families is what drives me. Today, we still suffer from the same economic genocide 
that we spoke of decades ago. My goal is to listen, assess your needs, identify 
available resources, plan and execute. If elected, I will triage the patient, find the 
wounds and apply pressure. I am here. Let me be your advocate, your champion. vote 
lindsey4kauai Mahalo
BALLOT NAME:
LINDSEY, Laura A.
LEGAL NAME: 
Laura A. Lindsey 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs Kauai Resident 
Trustee
lauralindseykauai@gmail.com
(808) 639-3038
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
62Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionOﬃ   ce of Hawaiian Aﬀ  airs At-Large Trustee
 Understanding the fiduciary duty of a Trustee, I want to help carry out the 
purposes for which this public trust was created/established by the Federal 
government in 1959 Pub. L. No.8603, Sec. 5. Stat. 4,5(1959) of the Congressional 
Record set aside 203,500 acres to BENEFIT the Native people, and states: “One of the 
five purposes for which the public trust is to be carried out is for the “BETTERMENT 
OF THE CONDITIONS OF NATIVE HAWAIIANS(NH).” The 1978 Constitutional Convention 
recognized that NH had no other homeland, and thus needed protection for their 
Existence/Subsistence (Language, Culture, Gathering rights, etc.) The State of Hawaii 
leases most of these lands and does not give the 20% of its Net revenue for the 
“BETTERMENT OF THE CONDITIONS OF NATIVE HAWAIIANS” . Quote from Civil Beat: “Half 
of Oahu’s homeless population identified themselves as NH.” . More than 60% of NH 
moved out of their homeland:(
BALLOT NAME:
AHU ISA, Lei
LEGAL NAME: 
Leinaala S.P. Ahu Isa 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs At-Large 
Trustee
lahuisa@gmail.com
(808) 383-5201
 Keli’i Akina, Ph.D. is currently an OHA Trustee at large and President/CEO of the 
Grassroot Institute.  As a watchdog and reformer, he has devoted himself to restoring 
integrity in OHA and opposing fraud, waste and abuse. Trustee Akina was successful 
in obtaining an independent forensic review of OHA and for implementing key reforms. 
Akina’s mission for the trust fund of OHA is to protect the trust, grow the trust, and use 
the trust to meet the needs of Hawaiians for housing, jobs, education, and healthcare.   
Trustee Akina is an independent voice who speaks up for OHA’s beneficiaries.  He also 
works with other trustees to meet the needs of Hawaiians and believes OHA can be 
a force for good for all people, both Hawaiians and non-Hawaiians. Trustee Akina has 
served on numerous boards and organizations. He is a graduate of Kamehameha 
Schools, Northwestern University and the University of Hawaii.
BALLOT NAME:
AKINA, Keli’i
LEGAL NAME: 
William Keli’i Akina 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs At-Large 
Trustee
www.keliiakina.com
kelii@keliiakina.com
(808) 256-9792
2024 VOTER GUIDE
63
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Hawaii Mayor
 Aloha Hawai’i Island, On July 1, 2023, I left my position as Vice President of 
Hawai’i Island Community Health Center to run for Mayor of Hawai’i County. I’ve been 
meeting with thousands of community members and gaining support island wide. 
My three-part platform of LIVE, WORK, PLAY will focus on the needs of our residents. 
I come well qualified with the… -Most CEO Leadership Experience and over 30yrs 
of community service to Hawaii Island. -Worked in 3 levels of Govt. (County, State, 
Federal) and Community. -Expertise in Health, Mental Health, Addiction, Parenting, and 
Problem-Solving. Check out my priorities on my website at kimoformayor.com and my 
Facebook/IG account @drkimoalameda. We need change and we need change now! 
Let’s Save Hawaii And Keep Aloha! Mahalo
BALLOT NAME:
ALAMEDA, C. Kimo
LEGAL NAME: 
Christian Kimo Alameda 
Hawaii Mayor
kimoformayor.com
connect@kimoformayor.com
(808) 345-9280
 Serving as your mayor has been the honor of a lifetime. Since 2020, we’ve 
worked to create a sustainable Hawaiʻi Island where future generations can thrive. 
Through our first term, we’ve focused on building homes for local families, enhancing 
critical infrastructure, and enriching community resources to elevate the quality of 
life for all residents. Our efforts have expanded the affordable housing pipeline to 
over 8,200 homes and transformed our building permitting process from the nation’s 
worst to the state’s best. By December, we will have paved more than 100 miles of 
roadways islandwide and will begin the largest infrastructure project in county history 
by overhauling the Hilo Wastewater Treatment Plant. We’ve also quadrupled the Parks’ 
maintenance budget to enhance access, amenities, and safety for all. With your 
support, we will continue investing in the people and places that make our island 
home so special. Mahalo for your consideration.
BALLOT NAME:
ROTH, Mitch
LEGAL NAME: 
Mitchell D. Roth 
Hawaii Mayor
mitchroth.org
mitchroth.chair@gmail.com
(808) 989-0385
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
64Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Hawaii Councilmember District 5
 Matt Kanealii-Kleinfelder lives in Olaʻa and is the current Councilman for District 
5. He is a Father of three children and a small business owner with experience in 
the trades and customer service. He continuously promotes education, arts and 
agriculture. In response to community concerns, Matt increased Police Positions 
in Puna, passed laws allowing for County Maintenance of private roads, improved 
Stainback Highway, and provided free towing of Abandoned Vehicles from private 
property. He initiated the New Police and Fire Station in Kea’au, new Kea’au 
Community Center, Shipman Park Master plan, and a new Kea’au Mass Transit Hub. 
Given the increasing population growth in our area, he understands the importance of 
planning legacy projects for our future generations. Matt is a humble candidate with 
integrity and the only candidate who has effectively created changes that increase 
our quality of life! Mahalo & VOTE MATT!
BALLOT NAME:
KANEALI’I-KLEINFELDER, Matt
LEGAL NAME: 
Matthew A. Kanealii-Kleinfelder 
Hawaii Councilmember District 5
punamatters@gmail.com
(808) 756-3933
 Aloha! My name is Ikaika Rodenhurst and I’m running to be our Hawaii County 
Councilmember for District 5, Puna Mauka. I am here to bring hope to Puna at a time 
when we need leadership that will show up and fight for a better Puna. Iʻm a father 
of three, a football coach, and a licensed civil engineer. My core values are integrity, 
commitment, and compassion. My top priorities are to improve infrastructure, build 
community resilience and enhance public safety. I am a team player who is willing 
and able to work with anyone and everyone necessary to meet the needs of our 
community. Any councilmember, mayor, legislator, administrative official, business, 
or citizen. We are all in the same canoe and need to paddle together to move our 
Hawaii island forward to provide opportunity and a future for our children and future 
generations. I humbly ask for your vote
BALLOT NAME:
RODENHURST, Ikaika
LEGAL NAME: 
Steven Ikaika Rodenhurst 
Hawaii Councilmember District 5
ikaikarodenhurst.com
ikaika.rodenhurst@gmail.com
(808) 203-7450
2024 VOTER GUIDE
65
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Hawaii Councilmember District 9
 We cannot assume that the economy will provide monies for government 
services or salaries for people to make ends meet. I will support activities and laws 
that improve the ability of farmers, ranchers, and small businesses to succeed. I 
will oppose initiatives that add tax burdens to these people. Evans served in the 
Hawaiʻi State House for 16 years holding leadership positions as Chair of committees 
and served as Majority Floor Leader. She brings planning and policy development 
experience in efforts to find effective solutions and to shift priorities as needed. Evans 
received her Bachelors of Arts degree in Business Administration from Evergreen 
State College. Evans has lived in South Kohala for 26 years. Born and raised in a 
farming culture in Illinois. She is first generation college graduate. Mahalo for your 
consideration.
BALLOT NAME:
EVANS, Cindy
LEGAL NAME: 
Cynthia F.W. Evans 
Hawaii Councilmember District 9
cindyevanscountycouncil.com
cynthiaevans@aol.com
(808) 345-5810
 Aloha kākou! My name is James Hustace and I am seeking your support to 
represent the communities of North and South Kohala. My goal is to work with fellow 
community members in an effort to enhance County services, learn from our kūpuna, 
listen to constituents, and develop strong relations with community organizations. I 
have a deep connection to Hawai‘i. I grew up in Waimea and over the years sought 
ways to contribute to my community through leadership roles with the Waimea 
Community Association, South Kohala Traffic Safety Committee, County Redistricting 
Commission, and Waimea Trails & Greenways. Our communities face challenges, and 
we must work together with our County, State, and Federal partners, finding solutions 
to safeguard our residents, strengthen our infrastructure, and care for the ʻāina. Let’s 
work together and provide North and South Kohala with representation rooted in 
community. Mahalo for your consideration. Learn more at hustaceforcouncil.com. 
Imua!
BALLOT NAME:
HUSTACE, James E.
LEGAL NAME: 
James E. Hustace 
Hawaii Councilmember District 9
hustaceforcouncil.com
hustaceforcouncil@gmail.com
(808) 464-2570
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
66
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember East Maui
 During my first three terms in office, I have worked hard to make Maui County 
more resilient and our government more environmentally and economically 
responsible. In the 2020 and 2022 elections I introduced charter amendments, 
overwhelming approved by voters, creating the first county Department of Agriculture 
and establishing the East Maui Water Authority to provide more water for residents 
and farmers and better management of local water resources. I wrote the strongest 
municipal environmental protection law in the nation banning the use of chemical 
pesticides and fertilizers on county owned lands protecting county workers health 
and our environment while reducing the county’s exposure to expensive litigation. 
By creating the first county archeologist position, I have protected cultural resources 
while streamlining county projects by speeding up the approval process and reducing 
county expenditures on consultants. I will continue to work to bring back economic 
vibrancy as we recover and heal.
BALLOT NAME:
SINENCI, Shane
LEGAL NAME: 
Shane Michael Sinenci 
Maui Councilmember East Maui
votesinenci.com
ssinenci@yahoo.com
(808) 264-8919
2024 VOTER GUIDE
67
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember West Maui
 It’s time for trailblazing leadership! As a father and business owner, I’m a true 
voice of the people. I’ll offer fiscally responsible representation that puts our local 
community first while providing fresh and sensible insight. I’m not beholden to 
anyone or any special interest groups. I intend to be a bridge for solutions, not a 
barrier. Together we will restore Maui to a place where our families can prosper 
and thrive. A Maui where our keiki can grow old. On August 8th I lost my home and 
businesses in the fire. However, I am blessed because my family is safe. I know what 
it’s like to feel despair and lose everything you’ve worked hard for in an instant. Post 
fire I persevered to provide for my family and employees. I want to apply that same 
tenacity in restoring hope to Lahaina and all of Maui County. VOTE LOLO
BALLOT NAME:
ACQUIN TAS, Lorien (Lolo)
LEGAL NAME: 
Lorien Acquintas 
Maui Councilmember West Maui
loloacquintas.com
team@voteforlolo.com
(808) 446-0106
 Aloha mai, I’m Tamara Paltin, a wife and mother of two and I’m running to serve 
as your West Maui Councilmember. I’m currently serving my third term and have 
gained many insights and experience into the processes and procedures of serving 
as an elected official, passing ordinances and overseeing the county budget process. 
To date, I have guided the West Maui Community Plan update through to becoming 
law, facilitated change in zoning for housing projects such as Waikapu Country Town 
and Kilohana Makai as well as represented our Council on the Executive Committee 
of the Hawaii State Association of Counties. My focus moving forward is on helping 
the County and specifically Lahaina town recover and rebuild. Since the day after 
the August 8, fires I have been involved in the support of our residents through the 
standing up of Napili Noho hub, the delivery of starlinks, providing updates, etc.
BALLOT NAME:
PALTIN, Tamara Akiko Maile
LEGAL NAME: 
Tamara A.M. Paltin 
Maui Councilmember West Maui
TamaraPaltin.com
tampaltin@gmail.com
(808) 870-0052
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
68
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu
 It’s time for NEW LEADERSHIP. I offer 20 years’ professional experience as an 
attorney including service as Legislative Attorney for the Maui County Council and 
Hawaii House of Representatives. I understand the law and how to use the law to help 
the people recover from decades of injustice and unfair policies that have harmed 
hard working local people. No more CORRUPT POLITICIANS. “Nuff Already!” Maui 
County has failed to protect the people. It’s time to thank my opponent for her service 
and move on to new leadership with new ideas on how to help the people. Our 
resources must be used to support local people and local small businesses, not luxury 
hotels and developers. I’m fighting for 25% Union raises, building back Lahaina for 
locals, affordable housing for everyone, less regulation for local businesses, important 
environmental protections, women’s rights and healthcare, financial security for 
families, and justice for Hawaiians.
BALLOT NAME:
FORRES T, James (Nahele)
LEGAL NAME: 
James Forrest 
Maui Councilmember Wailuku-Waihee-
Waikapu
votenaheleforrest.com
naheleforrest@gmail.com
(808) 758-9096
 I’m Alice Lee, running for re-election to the Maui County Council Wailuku-Waihee-
Waikapu residency seat. I was born and raised on Maui, attended St. Anthony School 
and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from Chaminade University. 
My dad’s mom, Minnie Gomez Lee, lived on Wells Street and my mom’s mom, Miriam 
Kanakamaika’i, lived on Kahookele Street, in Wailuku. My parents Angelo and Momi 
Lee both worked at Hawaiian Telephone Company in Wailuku. My life is deeply rooted 
here. We are facing a myriad of critical issues, such as an urgent need for affordable 
housing, better-paying jobs, improving public health and safety, preserving our 
culture and environment, diversifying our economy, strengthening infrastructure and 
resources to be better prepared for future wildfires or other disasters. Despite the 
immensity of the problems before us, we shall prevail and emerge stronger together. I 
humbly ask for your vote and support.Mahalo.
BALLOT NAME:
LEE, Alice L.
LEGAL NAME: 
Alice L. Lee 
Maui Councilmember Wailuku-Waihee-
Waikapu
aliceleehawaii@gmail.com
(808) 280-0035
2024 VOTER GUIDE
69
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember Kahului
 Natalie A Kama aka Tasha Kama - Democrat Candidate for Maui County 
Council Kahului District Residency Seat P. O. Box 2884 Wailuku, HI 96793 Website: 
FriendsoftashaKama.org Email: tasha@friendsoftashakama.com Phone: 808-385-3400 
May 20, 2024 I ran in 2018 because of the housing crisis our county was experiencing. 
Covid showed up in 2020 and we were isolated from the world and each other. The 
wildfires in Upcountry and West Maui caused our housing crisis to exponentially 
multiply. Housing is still a top priority. I will continue to work expeditiously to rebuild 
Lahaina with the community’s guidance. We must take the time to heal together, plan 
together and find the necessary funding for all the Lahaina residents to return to 
their homes. This is my commitment to increasing our housing inventory, to ensuring 
employment and economic opportunities for our residents, as we continue to Aloha I 
Ke Kahi I Ke Kahi.
BALLOT NAME:
KAMA, Tasha
LEGAL NAME: 
Natalie A. Kama 
Maui Councilmember Kahului
Friendsoftashakama.org
kahukama@gmail.com
(808) 463-2963
 Our voice, our home, our Maui. I’m running to renew Maui through innovation, 
progress, and the grit to tackle our toughest issues. I’m a retired, 22-year Navy veteran 
with strong leadership values: responsibility, unwavering commitment, and the ability 
to lead through adversity. Make no mistake - Maui’s stability is at risk. Housing is a 
human right, yet housing has become overwhelming for over half of our local families 
who work multiple jobs just to keep a roof over their heads and food on the table. 
Meanwhile, 1/4 of our homes are owned by nonresidents, our economy is distinctly 
dependent on tourism, and family farms struggle to compete against cheap, imported 
food. I plan to boost affordable housing, tackle the economic factors promoting 
nonresident ownership, and diversify our economy by supporting small businesses, 
healthcare and trades careers, sustainable agriculture, and the film industry. Together, 
we’ll forge a resilient, prosperous Maui.
BALLOT NAME:
KAMEKONA, Carol Lee
LEGAL NAME: 
Carol Lee Kamekona 
Maui Councilmember Kahului
carolleekamekona.com
carolleekamekona@outlook.com
(808) 264-9385
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
70
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember South Maui
 Aloha. My name is Tom Cook, your current South Maui County Councilmember, 
asking for your support in this year’s election. I bring balance to the Council. Local 
values from 50+ years being a full-time resident. Raising 5 children who all graduated 
from public schools on Maui. Growing my building and problem-solving skills as an 
apprentice carpenter to a general contractor in 1989. My hands on experience, being 
an employee and later in life having a company with over 40 employees; applying 
for and waiting for building permits; paying rent; paying a mortgage; raising children 
and taking care of grandparents has given me the life experiences to serve you on the 
County Council. I bring common sense and understanding of the people’s needs to 
our local government. I humbly ask for your support and your vote on August 10th and 
November 5th. Mahalo. Vote for Tom Cook, Maui County Council.
BALLOT NAME:
COOK, Tom
LEGAL NAME: 
Thomas M. Cook 
Maui Councilmember South Maui
friendsoftomcook.com
cooksynergy@gmail.com
(808) 870-2205
 Kelly King is a candidate for the South Maui district seat of the Maui County 
Council, where she has been a leader in sustainability and an engaged resident since 
becoming a mother in 1985. She has lived on Maui for over 40 years and with her 
husband Bob has two children, both born and raised on Maui (graduates of Maui High 
School and UH Mānoa), and two grandchildren. A long-time advocate for resilient, 
thriving communities, her priorities include a diversified circular economy, local 
renewable energy, regenerative agriculture, food security, affordable housing, social 
equity, emergency preparedness, environmental protection, and managed shoreline 
retreat. King has been active as a board member for many non-profits, including: 
• Hawaiʻi Renewable Energy Alliance • Maui Farmers Union board • Akakū: Maui 
Community Television • Hui Mālama Learning Center • UH Maui College Sustainable 
Sciences Management Advisory Council • Maui Nui Food Alliance Steering Committee
BALLOT NAME:
KING, Kelly Takaya
LEGAL NAME: 
Kelly T. King 
Maui Councilmember South Maui
www.kellykingformaui.com
ktkmaui@me.com
(808) 283-1954
2024 VOTER GUIDE
71
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember Makawao-Haiku-Paia
 As we find our way in the aftermath of the August 8th fires, it’s never been more 
important to have COMMUNITY VOICES at decision making tables. The struggle for 
decent, AFFORDABLE housing county wide has never been more difficult. Our people 
need help. As an advocate/educator for renters’ rights through Maui Housing Hui, I 
know more is needed. We need people in office who are intent on focusing on the 
wellbeing of OUR COMMUNITY FIRST. As decisions are made to diversify our economy 
away from tourism, we need to create new ways for people to sustain their families. 
We need to support farmers, to better bolster our food production. We need to house 
our grocery clerks, school staff, hotel and healthcare workers. We need to rebuild 
while putting COMMUNITY VOICES FIRST. Please vote for all nine council seats, and 
when you do, check the BOONE box. Mahalo!
BALLOT NAME:
BOONE, Nara
LEGAL NAME: 
Nara Boone 
Maui Councilmember Makawao-Haiku-
Paia
votenaraboone.com
votenaraboone@gmail.com
(808) 283-3982
 Aloha, I am Nohe Uu-Hodgins. Currently, the Councilmember for the Makawao, 
Paia, Haiku district. I was born and raised in Paia and my family goes back many 
generations on Maui. I am the proud mother of four. My husband, Koa, and our family 
live in Makawao. As your councilmember, I believe there is a balance between smart 
growth, respect for the environment, and respect for our local culture. In my current 
term, I have fought for workforce and affordable housing and advocated for the 
purchase of open space in land Pauwela. After the devastating Maui fires, we need 
housing now more than ever. I hope to provide a place that our great-grandchildren 
can continue to call home. It is my honor to represent my district and my island home, 
I hope to continue to do so. For more information or to contact me please visit my 
website at votenohe.com.
BALLOT NAME:
UU-HODGINS, Nohe
LEGAL NAME: 
Nohelani M.T. Uu-Hodgins 
Maui Councilmember Makawao-Haiku-
Paia
votenohe.com
votenohe@gmail.com
(808) 269-0691
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
72
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember Upcountry
 Aloha Maui! I am running for County Council’s Upcountry seat to bring positive 
change and serve our community. My focus is on food sovereignty achieved 
through regenerative agriculture. I believe that the most powerful form of currency is 
community. Partnering with the Maui Pono Network, we tackle issues like affordable 
housing, water rights, abundant nutritious food, managed tourism, and reclaiming 
and restoring the land. For the next couple of years, the pono rebuilding of Lahaina 
Town along with supporting our Upcountry farmers and family must be a priority. It 
is imperative we listen to, and collaborate with, everyone affected by the August 8th 
wildfires in an open, inclusive way. I am committed to emphasizing environmental 
protection through creative policy solutions. Join us in creating a thriving, sustainable 
future for Maui Nui. Mahalo!
BALLOT NAME:
CRUZ, Jocelyn N.
LEGAL NAME: 
Jocelyn N. Cruz 
Maui Councilmember Upcountry
jocelyn@knowthyflow.com
(702) 419-0700
 Yuki Lei Sugimura, Kula resident and proud Baldwin High School graduate, 
currently serves as the Maui County Councilmember representing the Upcountry 
Residency Area. Serving on the Council since 2017 , Sugimura is currently the Council 
Vice-Chair and chair of the Budget, Finance and Economic Development Committee. 
Prior to her time on the Council, Sugimura served as the Maui Field Representative for 
U.S. Senator Hirono and the late U.S. Senator Akaka. Building community has always 
been a passion for Yuki Lei. Sugimura was a driving force behind many community 
events, including Wailuku First Friday and Maui Matsuri. Sugimura continues her 
community engagement through her monthly Talk Story with Yuki Lei series at the 
Upcountry Farmers Market. With her years of experience, Yuki lei is committed to 
continue serving all of Maui County.
BALLOT NAME:
SUGIMURA, Yuki Lei Kashiwa
LEGAL NAME: 
Yuki Lei Kashiwa Sugimura 
Maui Councilmember Upcountry
www.yukileisugimura.com
yukilei.sugimura@gmail.com
(808) 870-8047
2024 VOTER GUIDE
73
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember Lanai
 Aloha I’m Gabe Johnson Maui County Councilmember for the island of Lāna’i. I 
am asking for your support as we continue to press forward in these unprecedented 
times. During my tenure as councilmember I fought hard for affordable housing by 
creating legislations giving preference to long term residents and making affordable 
housing truly affordable. I know the cost of living has been skyrocketing in our county 
which is why I made County buses free for low income folk and summer and winter 
PALS free for all. I continue to support nonprofits who serve our most vulnerable and 
create legislation to support our farmers, working class, and those that need it the 
most. I am a strong advocate for protecting our environment and would be proud to 
continue to work for my community. Please go to www.gabe4council.com for more 
information. Mahalo.
BALLOT NAME:
JOHNSON, Gabe
LEGAL NAME: 
Gabriel L. Johnson 
Maui Councilmember Lanai
www.gabe4council.com
gabejohnsonwest111@gmail.com
(808) 559-0980
2024 VOTER GUIDE  
74Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Maui Councilmember Molokai
 Aloha, I am steadfastly committed to my community through service, 
volunteerism, and my desire to use a common sense approach to ensure housing 
affordability for our residents. Along with my wife Nani, I continue to live on Molokaiʻs 
west side, where we raised our only daughter, who like so many of our younger 
generation, left Hawaii due to the high cost of living magnified by unaffordable 
housing opportunities. However, we remain hopeful to one day watch our 
grandchildren grow up here. Along with being a business owner for 18 years, I serve 
as a consultant with a focus on affordable housing and kauhale projects, continuing 
my learning track to identify new and unique ways to partner for greater efficiency 
and access to housing for our local families. I am running for the Molokai seat of the 
Maui County Council, and humbly ask for your consideration and vote. Mahalo
BALLOT NAME:
PELE, John
LEGAL NAME: 
John P. Tau Tau Pele 
Maui Councilmember Molokai
johnpele.com
aloha@johnpele.com
(808) 658-5114
 Aloha nui! ‘O wau o Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, a kupa’aina of Molokai, and 
a mother of two keiki, who drive my passion for investing in the quality of life for 
our home, to leave it better than I found it for our future generations. I’m a proud 
graduate of Molokai High School with a law degree and certificates specializing in 
Environmental Law and Native Hawaiian Law, and a master’s degree in business 
administration. Throughout these three terms on the council, it has been a privilege to 
work by your side as we build upon our hardships to become an even more resilient 
community. It would be an honor to continue serving the people of Maui County to 
ensure our community’s voice is supported with well-informed decision-making 
that centers protection for our āina and policies that mitigate the daily struggles our 
residents face. I look forward to continuing our progress together.
BALLOT NAME:
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, Keani
LEGAL NAME: 
Keani Rawlins-Fernandez 
Maui Councilmember Molokai
votekeani.com
kokuakeani@gmail.com
(808) 351-0263
2024 VOTER GUIDE
75
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Kauai Councilmember
 Aloha everyone my name is Abraham F. Apilado Jr. and I’m running for Kaua’i 
County Council. As a father and family man, I understand the importance of a strong 
community for future generations. With a gift for public speaking and a commitment 
to standing up for what is right, I bring a unique voice to our community. As an 
advisory panel member for the Western Pacific Regional Fisheries Management 
Council, I advocate for both current and future fishermen. I educate visitors and locals 
about our fishery, emphasizing proper care and sustainability. My genuine love for 
Kaua’i and our people drives my dedication to preserving our way of life. I am a local 
boy ready to serve our community, ensuring that the voices of our residents are heard 
and respected. Love you Kaua’i, I hope to represent you in this upcoming election year. 
Mahalo
BALLOT NAME:
APILADO, Abe, Jr. (Aba-G)
LEGAL NAME: 
Abraham F. Apilado Jr
Kauai Councilmember
a.apilado74@gmail.com
(808) 720-7560
 Iʻm born and raised on Kaua’i and returned home from college in 2013 to 
practice as a Doctor of Chiropractic. For over 10 years I served my community 
through my private practice and various non-profit boards across different sectors 
of our community. The experience of working on sustainable solutions both in the 
private and nonprofit world inspired me to understand that positive systemic change 
is possible. I was elected as a County council member in 2022 and I’m seeking 
reelection to continue the momentum of protecting our local working families, 
reducing cost of living, and setting up our future for success. On behalf of my family, 
my wife, Nikki, and our newborn Kīlaʻa, mahalo for your commitment to bettering our 
community, and we humbly ask for your one of your votes.
BALLOT NAME:
BULOSAN, Addison
LEGAL NAME: 
Addison C. Bulosan 
Kauai Councilmember
www.addisonbulosan.com
addisonbulosan@gmail.com
(808) 652-1442
 I am running for re-election as a member of the Kauai County Council. Having 
served as a civil servant for twenty-three years, the former Mayor of our Island home 
for ten years and current council member for four years, I bring a wealth of knowledge 
and experience that I will continue to share as decisions are made for our entire Island 
Community. I look forward to continuing to work hard in providing our Island home 
the continued support to assure that all from Keiki to Kupuna can live safe and healthy 
lifestyles. As the current Committee Chair for Planning , I look forward to the start of 
the East Kauai Development Plan as well a my continued support of all Island-wide 
projects that are currently in place. Affordable Housing, Disaster Preparedness and 
Roads Maintenance need continued support and action. Vote Bernard Carvalho Jr 
Proven Dedicated Leadership.
BALLOT NAME:
CARVALHO, Bernard P., Jr.
LEGAL NAME: 
Bernard P. Carvalho Jr.
Kauai Councilmember
carvalhob003@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-7489
 Aloha, I am eager to serve a fourth term as your Kauai County Council member. 
“Putting People First” continues to be my motto and highest priority by making 
time to listen, go to your town, understand the challenges presented and work with 
communities and constituents to build solutions. Upgrading our infrastructure so 
we can better provide housing and strengthen our businesses to become more 
self-reliant in a rapidly changing world is paramount. We need to stay empowered 
together; retaining the cultural wisdoms of our diverse heritages. Strengthening 
quality of life, freedoms of choice and creating greater hazard management 
strategies are important me. My background in engineering, business, education and 
volunteerism in mediation, neighborhood agriculture, economics and media helps 
to guide my understanding. I am blessed to be a mother and grandmother living in 
Kilauea. Council is my sole focus and full-time commitment. Mahalo for considering 
me as your representative.
BALLOT NAME:
COWDEN, Felicia
LEGAL NAME: 
Felicia Eileen Cowden 
Kauai Councilmember
feliciacowden.com
feliciacowden@gmail.com
(808) 652-43632024 VOTER GUIDE  
76Contest Category
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Kauai Councilmember
 Aloha, I am most honored to seek a seat on the county council of Kaua’i and 
Ni’ihau, of which 7 generations including myself, had, and continue to have, the 
privilege to call Kaua’i our ‘āina hānau. My kuleana to mālama our keiki and kūpuna, 
kaiaulu (community), and natural and cultural resources and practices enables me 
to take action and get results to protect the future of Kaua’i and Ni’ihau. I am SHERRI 
CUMMINGS, a kanaka wāhine, asking for a fresh start as your new voice to the 
County Council. Kūpuna inspired and driven to uphold the honor of my iwi kūpuna 
me nā kūpuna, I ask for your sincere consideration and vote. You can learn more 
about me at www.cummingsforcouncil.org. and I encourage you to reach out to me 
at pikakecummings1@gmail.com. I mai la me ka ha’a ha’a a me ke aloha, (Said with 
humility and love) Sherri Cummings
BALLOT NAME:
CUMMINGS, Sherri
LEGAL NAME: 
Sherri Cummings 
Kauai Councilmember
malamaanahola.sc@gmail.com
(808) 635-2085
 Aloha Kaua’i and Ni’ihau, My name is Billy DeCosta. I am humbly asking for your 
support in my reelection. I am deeply rooted here on our beautiful island, married for 
27 yrs and have raised 3 sons. My political accomplishments over these past 2 terms 
speaks volumes. I am proud of my involvement in the over hauling of our Ag property 
tax class Bill 2875 which supports farmers and ranchers. I crafted and assisted with 
Bill 2910 which allows our County the ability to charge tourists for being rescued. I 
assisted with crafting Bill 2913 to increase our golf fees for non residents / residents at 
our world class Wailua golf course. I am currently working with Chair Rapozo on Bill 
2919, an Ag guest house bill, which will increase housing density on Ag/CPR lands. I 
am currently working on flooding & fire mitigation to ensure landowner accountability.
BALLOT NAME:
DECOSTA, Billy D.
LEGAL NAME: 
Bill D. DeCosta 
Kauai Councilmember
billyndrena@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 639-8533
 My life long community work and commitment to social justice and the 
environment is what motivates me to run for County Council. I was born and raised 
in Kapahi and have family and many childhood friends, who, like me, are struggling 
to make ends meet and care for their families. I am committed to doing everything I 
can to fight for our local families when making decisions to build a better future for 
Kauaʻi, while honoring our island’s unique history and culture, as well as appreciating 
our economic struggles. I know I can be a strong advocate and voice for our 
community and feel that my life experience, education, ability to be analytical, work 
collaboratively, and communicate well will benefit the work and dynamics of the 
Kauaʻi County Council to help make thoughtful and fair decisions for the betterment of 
Kauaʻi and its residents. More is available at votefern.com.
BALLOT NAME:
HOLLAND, Fern Anuenue
LEGAL NAME: 
Fern A. Holland 
Kauai Councilmember
votefern.com
votefern@gmail.com
(808) 634-6242
 My name is Ross Kagawa and I am a proud husband of 31 years, with two 
daughters and three granddaughters who all reside on Kauai. I am a retired teacher 
and former accountant, with my Bachelors in Business Administration in Accounting 
from the University of Hawaii at Manoa and Bachelors in Education from Chaminade 
University. When I first started politics, my goal was to give the everyday, working 
families a seat at the table. Now, with ten years of experience under my belt, that goal 
remains steadfast. With the current state of the economy, more than ever, the Kauai 
County Council needs to prioritize the lack of affordable housing inventory and make 
it easier overall for our local families to be able to live here on Kauai. Any questions or 
concerns, please reach out at any time as serving the people of Kauai is my privilege.
BALLOT NAME:
KAGAWA, Ross
LEGAL NAME: 
Ross K. Kagawa 
Kauai Councilmember
kagawar004@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-16052024 VOTER GUIDE
77
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Kauai Councilmember
 I am running for Kauai County Council because I care about Kauai and I care 
about its future. I bring with me my business and accounting acumen, eight years of 
experience on the council as Chair of the budget, four of those years as the Council 
Chair, my commitment to community service, and the values and principles that were 
instilled in me from family, teachers, coaches, and community. Growing up here, I 
believe I can represent the people of Kauai and Niihau well because I am a regular, 
everyday Kauai resident who works hard and wants to make the best life for myself 
and my family. I would be humbled and honored to have your vote in this upcoming 
election.
BALLOT NAME:
KANESHIRO, Arryl J.
LEGAL NAME: 
Arryl J. Kaneshiro 
Kauai Councilmember
arrylkaneshiro@gmail.com
(808) 652-5216
 Butch Keahiolalo is a dedicated community member running for County Council. 
As a former teacher, business owner and retired firefighter on Kaua’i, he understands 
the importance of investing in our youth, providing economic opportunities for our 
residents, and ensuring the safety and well-being of our community. Butch’s core 
values guide his decisions, ensuring that he represents the best interests of all 
members of our community. If elected, he pledges to listen to the community’s needs, 
collaborate with leaders in our community, and continue efforts to make Kaua’i an 
affordable place to live, prosper, and raise a family for our resident population. Butch 
thanks his family, friends, and community for their support.
BALLOT NAME:
KEAHIOLALO, W. Butch
LEGAL NAME: 
William Butch Keahiolalo 
Kauai Councilmember
butchkeahiolalo@gmail.com
(808) 635-0388
 Aloha kakou! I currently serve as Council Vice Chair, Housing & 
Intergovernmental Relations Committee Chair and Finance & Economic Development 
Committee Vice Chair. I also serve as one of Hawai`i’s representatives on the National 
Association of Counties (NACo) Board. I have nearly forty years’ experience working 
in Government, Labor Unions, Non-Profits and Community Organizations. In that 
time, I’ve proven myself to be hardworking, trustworthy and thoughtful. I’ve also 
demonstrated my dedication to public service, my legislative policy experience, my 
strength with budgeting, my understanding of the issues and my commitment to 
always doing my homework, listening carefully and working collaboratively. Most 
importantly, I love Kaua`i and Ni`ihau deeply and I’m committed to always making 
a difference! I humbly ask for one of your seven votes. Please also vote for at least 
four or five of us candidates in order to strengthen and grow our representative 
democracy. Mahalo nui loa!!!
BALLOT NAME:
KUALII, KipuKai
LEGAL NAME: 
KipuKai L.P. Kualii 
Kauai Councilmember
kipukai.kualii@gmail.com
(808) 652-3684
 No Statement Submitted
BALLOT NAME:
NELSON, Jacquelyn (Jakki)
LEGAL NAME: 
Jacquelyn N. Nelson 
Kauai Councilmember
nelson5599@twc.com
(808) 631-82252024 VOTER GUIDE  
78
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCounty of Kauai Councilmember
 I am seeking re-election to the Kauai County Council because I believe in the 
power of positive change and the potential for government to be a force for good in 
people’s lives. My commitment stems from a genuine desire to address the pressing 
issues facing our community. Having witnessed the challenges that many individuals 
and families endure, I am driven to advocate for policies that foster inclusivity, equity, 
and progress. My experience in community service and dedication to collaboration 
will enable me to bridge divides and work towards solutions that benefit everyone. 
I am not driven by personal ambition, but by a profound sense of responsibility to 
contribute to the well-being of our society. By running for office, I aim to bring fresh 
perspectives, transparent communication, and a steadfast dedication to serving the 
public interest.
BALLOT NAME:
RAPOZO, Mel
LEGAL NAME: 
Melvin F. Rapozo 
Kauai Councilmember
www.melforcouncil.org
melrapozo@gmail.com
(808) 645-0243
 Bart J Thomas Bart J Thomas County of Kauai Non-partisan (808)635-8466 
email - Bart@voteforbartKauai.com Website -voteforbartkauai.com Dedicated to 
action, I embody the mantra “Actions speak louder than words.” Throughout the COVID 
pandemic, I served as a committed board member of Kauai’s Salvation Army, providing 
essential support to our homeless community. As a proud veteran and active member 
of the Kauai community, I am passionate about giving back. My various fundraising 
efforts have garnered tremendous support, resulting in significant improvements 
at the Veterans Center complex, including a new solar roof and renovated Military 
Museum. I’ve sponsored programs like Vacation for Warriors, allowing wounded 
veterans to reconnect with their families in a tranquil setting, free from the pressures 
of hospital visits. Additionally, I’ve supported the Children’s Dream Foundation, 
providing dream vacations for children battling cancer and offering them and their 
families moments of joy and respite.
BALLOT NAME:
THOMAS, Bart
LEGAL NAME: 
Bart J. Thomas 
Kauai Councilmember
Bart@voteforbartkauai.com
(808) 635-8466
2024 VOTER GUIDE
79
General ElectionGeneral Election
Charter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Hawaii State Constitution
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE STATE OF HAWAII, 
DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
QUESTION #1: Removal of Speciﬁ  c Language Concerning the Authority of the 
Legislature to Reserve Marriage to Opposite-Sex Couples
QUESTION
Shall the state constitution be amended to repeal the legislature’s authority to reserve 
marriage to opposite-sex couples?
EXPLANATION
The proposed amendment would remove the speciﬁ  c language in the Hawaii State 
Constitution that gave the Legislature authority to reserve marriage to opposite-sex 
couples.
MEANING OF “YES” VOTE
A “yes” vote would remove the speciﬁ  c language in the Hawaii State Constitution that 
gave the Legislature authority to reserve marriage to opposite-sex couples.
MEANING OF “NO” VOTE
A “no” vote would make no change to the Hawaii State Constitution and leave in 
place the speciﬁ  c language in the Hawaii State Constitution that gave the Legislature 
authority to reserve marriage to opposite-sex couples.
MEANING OF BLANK VOTE OR OVERVOTE
A “blank” vote is not tallied as a “yes” vote or a “no” vote upon the question.  Instead, a 
“blank” vote is only counted toward the total number of votes cast.  Similarly, an “over” 
vote is not tallied as a “yes” vote or a “no” vote upon the question.  Instead, an “over” 
vote is only counted toward the total number of votes cast.
In order for a proposed amendment to the Hawaii State Constitution to be ratiﬁ  ed, it 
must be approved by a majority of all votes tallied upon the question (i.e., only “yes” 
and “no” votes). Additionally, this majority must constitute at least ﬁ  fty percent of the 
total votes cast at the election (i.e., “yes,” “no,” “blank,” and “over” votes).
   
    
For the full text of these 
proposed amendments, go to 
elections.hawaii.gov
or call (808) 453-8683.2024 VOTER GUIDE  
80
General ElectionGeneral Election
Charter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Hawaii State Constitution
QUESTION #2: Making the Senate Conﬁ  rmation Process for 
Judicial Appointments More Uniform
QUESTION
Shall the Constitution of the State of Hawaii be amended to make the 
appointment and conﬁ  rmation process for district court judges the 
same as the appointment and conﬁ  rmation process for supreme court 
justices and intermediate court of appeals and circuit court judges, 
which would require:
(1) The Judicial Selection Commission to present the Chief Justice 
with a list of not less than four and not more than six nominees for a 
vacancy;
(2) A district court appointee to be automatically considered appointed 
if the Senate fails to reject the appointment within thirty days of 
receiving the appointment notice;
(3) The Chief Justice to make another appointment from the list 
of district court nominees within ten days if the Senate rejects an 
appointment; and
(4) The appointment and consent procedure to be followed until a valid 
appointment is made, or failing this, the Judicial Selection Commission 
to make the appointment from the list of nominees, without Senate 
consent?
EXPLANATION
The existing Senate conﬁ  rmation process for judicial appointments 
made by the Governor to the Hawaii Supreme Court, the Intermediate 
Court of Appeals, and the Circuit Courts diﬀ  ers from the Senate 
conﬁ  rmation process for judicial appointments made by the Chief 
Justice to the State District Courts.  The purpose of this amendment 
to article VI, section 3, of the Hawaii State Constitution is to make the 
appointment and Senate consent process for district court judges the 
same as the appointment and Senate consent process for other judges 
and justices.
Under the existing Senate consent process for district court judges, 
a district court appointee is automatically considered rejected if 
not consented to by the Senate within thirty days of receipt of the 
appointment.  Because the Hawaii State Legislature is a part-time 
legislature, the Senate must convene special sessions throughout the 
year for the sole purpose of consenting to district court appointments.  
This amendment would allow district court appointments to be 
automatically considered consented to if the Senate fails to reject 
the appointment within thirty days.  This change would make the 
procedures for the Senate conﬁ  rmation process for all state judicial 
appointments the same, regardless of whether the appointment is made 
by the Governor or the Chief Justice.MEANING OF “YES” VOTE
A “yes” vote would make the appointment and conﬁ  rmation process 
for district court judges the same as the appointment and conﬁ  rmation 
process for supreme court justices and intermediate court of appeals 
and circuit court judges.
MEANING OF “NO” VOTE
A “no” vote would make no change to the Hawaii State Constitution and 
leave in place a diﬀ  erent conﬁ  rmation process for district court judges 
appointed by the Chief Justice compared to the process for supreme 
court justices and intermediate court of appeals and circuit court 
judges appointed by the Governor.
MEANING OF BLANK VOTE OR OVERVOTE
A “blank” vote is not tallied as a “yes” vote or a “no” vote upon the 
question.  Instead, a “blank” vote is only counted toward the total 
number of votes cast.  Similarly, an “over” vote is not tallied as a “yes” 
vote or a “no” vote upon the question.  Instead, an “over” vote is only 
counted toward the total number of votes cast.
In order for a proposed amendment to the Hawaii State Constitution to 
be ratiﬁ  ed, it must be approved by a majority of all votes tallied upon 
the question (i.e., only “yes” and “no” votes). Additionally, this majority 
must constitute at least ﬁ  fty percent of the total votes cast at the election 
(i.e., “yes,” “no,” “blank,” and “over” votes).
    THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE STATE OF HAWAII, DEPARTMENT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL2024 VOTER GUIDE
81
General ElectionGeneral Election2024 Proposed Amendments to the Hawaii County Charter
QUESTION #1: County Council Vacancy in Oﬃ   ce
QUESTION
Shall the Hawai‘i County Charter be amended to provide that any 
vacancy on the County Council that occurs or exists after a person 
was duly elected to ﬁ  ll that seat for the upcoming Council term shall 
be ﬁ  lled by that duly elected successor for the remainder of the 
unexpired term?
EXPLANATION
This proposal clariﬁ  es that when a vacancy occurs on the County 
Council, a majority of the remaining members of the Council shall 
appoint a successor by passing a resolution for the remainder of the 
unexpired term.  In addition, it adds new provisions that requires 
the Council to ﬁ  ll the vacancy with a person who has been elected 
to ﬁ  ll the seat but has not yet taken oﬃ   ce.  For example, if a council 
member resigns after an election but before a new term begins, and 
if a successor has been duly elected, the Council would be required 
to appoint the duly elected successor to serve out the remainder of 
the unexpired term.  The proposed amendment also provides that the 
remainder of the unexpired term served by a council member ﬁ  lling a 
vacancy shall not apply to the term limit set forth in Section 3-2 of the 
Hawai‘i County Charter.
QUESTION #2: Mayoral Appointment of Department Heads
QUESTION
Shall the Hawai‘i  County Charter be amended to require the Mayor to 
appoint department heads within 30 days of the start of each mayoral 
term and within 60 days for any vacancy in oﬃ   ce that occurs during 
the mayoral term?
EXPLANATION
This proposal establishes deadlines for the Mayor to appoint 
department heads upon taking oﬃ   ce and when vacancies occur.QUESTION #3: Term of Oﬃ   ce for the Cost of Government 
Commission
QUESTION
Shall the Hawai‘i County Charter be amended to increase the term 
length for members of the Cost of Government Commission from eleven 
to twenty-two months and extend the deadline for the Commission 
to submit its report from eleven months after appointment to twenty 
months after appointment?
EXPLANATION
This proposal increases the term length for Cost of Government 
Commission members from eleven months to twenty-two months.  If 
approved, commission member terms would start eighteen months 
after the beginning of the mayor’s term and last for twenty-two months.  
In addition, the amendment would extend the Commission’s deadline 
to submit its report from eleven months after appointment to twenty 
months after appointment.THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY OF HAWAII, OFFICE OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
For the full text of these proposed amendments, go to 
www.hawaiicounty.gov/charteramendments
or call (808) 961-8255.2024 VOTER GUIDE  
82
General ElectionGeneral Election
Charter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Maui County Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY OF MAUI, 
DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
QUESTION #1: Salary Commission
QUESTION
Shall the Charter be amended to require the Salary Commission to determine 
“salaries” instead of “compensation” for elected oﬃ   cials and appointed directors and 
deputy directors to maintain consistency with the Constitution of the State of Hawaii 
and remove ﬁ  scal barriers to create equity through beneﬁ  ts such as reimbursement of 
travel costs?
EXPLANATION
Currently, Article 8, Chapter 17 of the Revised Charter of the County of Maui states that 
the Salary Commission for the County of Maui “shall determine the compensation of 
elected oﬃ   cials and appointed directors and deputy directors of all departments of 
the county.” (emphasis added).  Article XVI, Section 3.5 of the Constitution of the State 
of Hawaii and relevant provisions of the Charters for the other Counties, use the term 
“salaries” instead of the term “compensation.”  This amendment seeks to clarify that 
the Salary Commission for the County of Maui shall set only the salaries of elected 
oﬃ   cials and appointed directors and deputy directors, and not “compensation,” which 
may be more broadly interpreted to include other beneﬁ  ts such as travel costs for 
oﬃ   cials or appointees that live on Lanai or Molokai and must travel to Maui for their 
positions.  Other such beneﬁ  ts would be managed by the Council or the Mayor. 
MEANING OF “YES” VOTE
A “yes” vote means that the Salary Commission would determine the salaries of 
elected oﬃ   cials and appointed directors and deputy directors of the County of 
Maui.  This would not include other potential compensation beneﬁ  ts such as travel 
reimbursement for oﬃ   cials and appointees who live on Lanai or Molokai and must 
travel to Maui for their positions, which, would be managed by the Council or 
the Mayor.
MEANING OF “NO” VOTE
A “no” vote means that the Salary Commission would continue to determine the 
“compensation” of elected oﬃ   cials and appointed directors and deputy directors of 
the County of Maui, which may include beneﬁ  ts beyond salaries. 
MEANING OF BLANK VOTE OR OVERVOTE
A blank vote or overvote will not be counted in determining whether a majority of 
electors to the question have voted in favor of adoption.  
    For the full text of these proposed 
amendments, go to 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov
or call (808) 270-7749.2024 VOTER GUIDE
83
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCharter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Maui County Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY OF MAUI, 
DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
QUESTION #2: Independent Staﬃ   ng for Board of Ethics
QUESTION
Shall the Charter be amended, eﬀ  ective July 1, 2025, to authorize the Board of Ethics of 
the County of Maui to hire independent staﬀ  ?
EXPLANATION
The County of Maui Board of Ethics currently does not have its own independent, 
full-time staﬀ  .  Instead, the Board of Ethics is assigned one Deputy Corporation 
Counsel and one secretary, both of whom are employed by the Department of the 
Corporation Counsel and both of whom have various other duties which are separate 
from their work on behalf of the Board of Ethics.  Further, the Charter confers several 
of the powers of the Board of Ethics to the Board itself, rather than to its staﬀ  .  This 
amendment would allow the Board of Ethics to hire its own independent staﬀ  , and 
would empower the staﬀ   to undertake certain actions, including providing informal 
ethics opinions and advice, reviewing ﬁ  nancial disclosures and lobbyist ﬁ  lings, and 
pursuing ethics complaints.  
MEANING OF “YES” VOTE
A “yes” vote means that the Board of Ethics would be able to hire its own independent 
staﬀ  , which could undertake speciﬁ  c duties including providing informal ethics 
opinions and advice, reviewing ﬁ  nancial disclosures and lobbyist ﬁ  lings, and pursuing 
ethics complaints.
MEANING OF “NO” VOTE
A “no” vote means that the Board of Ethics would continue to be staﬀ  ed by employees 
from the Department of the Corporation Counsel who are limited in the duties that 
they can perform on behalf of the Board of Ethics.  
MEANING OF BLANK VOTE OR OVERVOTE
A blank vote or overvote will not be counted in determining whether a majority of 
electors to the question have voted in favor of adoption.   
    
For the full text of these proposed 
amendments, go to 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov
or call (808) 270-7749.2024 VOTER GUIDE  
84
General ElectionGeneral Election
Charter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Maui County Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY OF MAUI, 
DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
QUESTION #3: Board and Commission Terms
QUESTION
Shall the Charter be amended, eﬀ  ective July 1, 2025, to minimize the risk of vacancies 
on boards and commissions generally, and speciﬁ  cally with regard to dedicated 
seats for members residing in less populous areas, by allowing the appointment of 
members of boards and commissions for two consecutive full terms or ten consecutive 
years, whichever is greater?
EXPLANATION
Currently, Section 13-2(5) of the Charter of the County of Maui does not allow 
members of a board or commission to be appointed to a second full term on the same 
board or commission within a period of two years after their term has expired.  This 
amendment would allow members of a board or commission to be appointed for two 
consecutive full terms, or for up to ten years, whichever is greater.    
MEANING OF “YES” VOTE
A “yes” vote means that members of a board or commission could be appointed to a 
second consecutive full term on the same board or commission.
MEANING OF “NO” VOTE
A “no” vote means that a member of a board or commission could not be appointed to 
a second consecutive full term on the same board or commission.   
MEANING OF BLANK VOTE OR OVERVOTE
A blank vote or overvote will not be counted in determining whether a majority of 
electors to the question have voted in favor of adoption.
    
For the full text of these proposed 
amendments, go to 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov
or call (808) 270-7749.2024 VOTER GUIDE
85
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCharter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Kauai County Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY OF KAUAI, 
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY ATTORNEY
AMENDMENT 1: Relating to Police Commission Investigations.
QUESTION
Shall the Police Commission’s 90-day window for reporting written investigation 
results start when the Commission receives the investigation report?
PURPOSE
This Charter Amendment would provide the Police Commission with adequate time 
to conduct thorough investigations when members of the public bring charges against 
the Police Department or its members.
BACKGROUND
The language of the Charter (Kaua’i County Charter, section 11.03.C.) currently says 
the Police Commission must, “Receive, consider, and investigate charges brought 
by the public against the conduct of the department or any of its members and 
submit a written report of its ﬁ  ndings to the chief of police within ninety days.” This 
language is unclear because some investigations can take over 90 days to complete. 
This amendment would clarify that the Commission shall submit a written report 
of its ﬁ  ndings to the Chief of Police within 90 days after the investigation has been 
completed. This measure would separate the investigation and the reporting, allowing 
the investigation to proceed until its results are reported to the Commission. The 
Commission would then have 90 days to prepare and ﬁ  le its report to the Police Chief.  
AMENDMENT 2: Relating to Cost Control Commission Reports.
QUESTION
Shall the Cost Control Commission be authorized to recommend increased costs if 
they are expected to generate future cost savings or eﬃ   ciencies?
PURPOSE
This amendment would grant the Cost Control Commission greater ﬂ  exibility in 
recommending improving the eﬃ   ciency of government and in achieving long-term 
reductions in the cost of providing government services.
BACKGROUND
The County Cost Control Commission is authorized to recommend measures that 
eliminate programs and services and reduce costs (Kaua’i County Charter, Section 
28.04.) The commission has concluded that in some cases, an increase in spending 
may result in longer term eﬃ   ciencies or savings. A change in the language of the 
charter would grant the commission the additional ﬂ  exibility it requires to achieve its 
mission of reducing the cost of government while maintaining a reasonable level of 
public services. Note: Any commission recommendations would require both County 
Council and Mayoral approval before enactment. 28.04.) The commission has concluded that in some cases, an increase in spending 
may result in longer term eﬃ   ciencies or savings. A change in the language of the 
charter would grant the commission the additional ﬂ  exibility it requires to achieve its 
mission of reducing the cost of government while maintaining a reasonable level of 
public services. Note: Any commission recommendations would require both County 
Council and Mayoral approval before enactment. For the full text of these proposed 
amendments, go to 
kauai.gov/Charter
or call (808) 241-4881.2024 VOTER GUIDE  
86
General ElectionGeneral Election
2024 Proposed Amendments to the Kauai County Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY OF KAUAI, 
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY ATTORNEY
AMENDMENT 3: Relating to the Public Access, Open Space & Natural 
Resources Preservation Fund.
QUESTION
Shall up to 5% of the County’s Open Space Fund be available for the maintenance of 
lands, property entitlements, or improvements that were paid for by the Fund?
PURPOSE
This Charter Amendment seeks to ensure that properties protected by the Public 
Access, Open Space and Natural Resources Preservation Fund have resources to 
provide some stewardship support.
BACKGROUND
The County’s Public Access, Open Space and Natural Resources Preservation Fund 
(Kaua’i County Charter, Section 19.15.C.) is primarily aimed at acquiring lands for the 
purposes speciﬁ  ed in its title, ensuring public access, open space and preserving 
natural resources. However, the county has had diﬃ   culty arranging for volunteer 
groups or non-proﬁ  t entities to take on long-term maintenance and stewardship for 
the properties and improvements. This is particularly true with the preservation 
of ecologically and culturally sensitive projects. This measure would allow a small 
portion of the Fund to be used to support stewardship. As an example, it could be 
used to purchase lumber or maintenance supplies to help volunteer stewards with 
costs they may otherwise be unable to raise.
For the full text of these proposed 
amendments, go to 
kauai.gov/Charter
or call (808) 241-4881.2024 VOTER GUIDE
87
General ElectionGeneral Election2024 Proposed Amendments to the Kauai County Charter 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Kauai County Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY OF KAUAI, 
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY ATTORNEY
AMENDMENT 4: Relating to Surety Bonds.
QUESTION
Shall the Charter be amended to allow the use of insurance policies for certain or all 
employees to protect the County against ﬁ  nancial loss?
PURPOSE
This amendment would give the County ﬂ  exibility in purchasing either insurance 
or surety bonds to cover county employees and protect the county against ﬁ  nancial 
loss or theft.
BACKGROUND
Currently the Kaua’i County Charter, Section 19.17 states, certain oﬃ   cers and 
employees are required to be bonded. In the past, surety bonds provided a 
ﬁ  nancial guarantee against loss or theft associated with the performance of the 
oﬃ   cial duties of an oﬃ   ce. Surety bonds however, may not be readily available 
today. Insurance can provide the same protection for all employees at a lower cost.
Amending a portion of section 19.17 would give the County the ﬂ  exibility to buy 
policies with the best coverage, beneﬁ  ts and cost whether it is surety bonds, 
insurance, or both. The goal of this charter amendment would be to obtain the 
best policies for the County, for all employees and to better manage overall costs.
AMENDMENT 5: Relating to Ex-oﬃ   cio Youth Position on County Boards 
and Commissions.
QUESTION
Shall the Charter be amended to establish ex-oﬃ   cio positions for youth on Boards and 
Commissions to be ﬁ  lled by Kaua‘i resident high school juniors or seniors?
PURPOSE
This amendment would allow a Kaua’i student to learn government and civics 
through participating as an ex-oﬃ   cio member of boards and commissions.
BACKGROUND
To provide a voice for youth on Boards and Commission as well as an educational 
opportunity for students, this amendment would create seats for high school juniors or 
seniors on boards and commissions by adding a new subsection O to Section 23.02 of 
the Kaua’i County Charter.
The ex-oﬃ   cio student positions are to be ﬁ  lled by Kaua’i residents. Such members may 
participate in commission discussions but will not vote, will not be counted toward 
quorum, and will not participate in executive sessions. For the full text of these proposed 
amendments, go to 
kauai.gov/Charter
or call (808) 241-4881.2024 VOTER GUIDE  
88
General ElectionGeneral Election
Charter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Honolulu City Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE CITY AND COUNTY OF 
HONOLULU, DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
QUESTION #1
QUESTION
Shall the Revised City Charter be amended to require that the City Council 
appropriate, without having to simultaneously increase real property tax rates to 
fund the appropriation, one-half of one percent of the City’s estimated real property 
tax revenues in each ﬁ  scal year’s budget and capital program, to be deposited into a 
Climate Resiliency Fund, the purpose of which is to support initiatives and projects 
aimed at mitigating the impacts of climate change, enhancing the resilience of the 
City’s infrastructure and communities, and promoting sustainable practices?
PRESENT SITUATION
There is currently no Climate Resiliency Fund. Funding to support initiatives and 
projects aimed at mitigating the impacts of climate change, enhancing the resilience 
of the City’s infrastructure and communities, and promoting sustainable practices are 
currently reviewed and funded annually by the Honolulu City Council either through 
the Executive Operating Budget or the Executive Capitol Budget and Program.
IF PROPOSAL PASSES
A Climate Resiliency Fund would be created that would ﬁ  nance preventive, 
restorative and educational measures relating to climate change, and which would 
be funded by one-half of one percent of the City’s estimated annual real property tax 
revenues. The phrase, “without having to simultaneously increase real property tax 
rates to fund the appropriations,” however, should not be read to limit the power of the 
Honolulu City Council to increase real property taxes in the same year that it funds the 
Climate Resiliency Fund.
    
For the full text of these 
proposed amendments, go to 
honoluluelections.us.2024 VOTER GUIDE
89
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCharter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Honolulu City Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE CITY AND COUNTY OF 
HONOLULU, DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
QUESTION #2
QUESTION
Shall the Revised City Charter be amended to establish the Department of Emergency 
Management as an independent agency of the City Executive Branch by assigning the 
Department of Emergency Management a separate chapter in the City Charter similar to the 
chapters assigned to all other City departments to provide that all Department of Emergency 
Management positions, including its Director and Deputy Director, are subject to the civil 
service laws; and to specify a minimum level of qualiﬁ  cations for the civil service position of the 
Director of Emergency Management, with additional minimum qualiﬁ  cations to be determined 
in accordance with civil service laws?
PRESENT SITUATION
The City’s Department of Emergency Management (“DEM”) (formerly known as the civil 
defense agency) currently falls directly under the Oﬃ   ce of the Managing Director, but is not 
assigned its own chapter under the Charter as are other City departments. The citizen’s 
advisory commission on civil defense is a separate agency that likewise falls directly under 
the Oﬃ   ce of the Managing Director. 
The selection and retention of the DEM director and deputy director positions are subject to 
civil service rules, that is, they are subject to the merit principle. The Department of Human 
Resources, which administers the City’s civil service program, imposes minimum qualiﬁ  cations 
for the DEM director position that are consistent with the merit principle. The Charter sets forth 
the duties of the DEM director but not the position’s minimum qualiﬁ  cations.
IF PROPOSAL PASSES
The Executive Branch would be reorganized such that the DEM would be assigned its own 
chapter under the Charter, like other City departments, and the citizens advisory commission 
would fall within the DEM. These changes would not impact the term of the incumbent DEM 
director who is serving on January 1, 2025. 
Corresponding Charter amendments would be enacted to ensure that the DEM director 
and deputy director positions continue to be subject to civil service rules. Speciﬁ  cally, these 
amendments would exclude the DEM director and deputy director positions from the 
authority of the salary commission, which determines the salaries for department heads and 
deputy heads, and from the exemptions from civil service that apply to all other independent 
department directors and deputy directors. 
The Charter would also be amended to clarify the duties of the DEM director and add other 
duties, including the implementation of training, exercise, and public information programs 
relating to emergency management. Finally, the Charter would expressly incorporate DHR’s 
minimum qualiﬁ  cations for the DEM director position, and impose an additional requirement of 
at least ﬁ  ve years of responsible administrative experience in emergency management, disaster 
planning, or public safety services management, at least two years of which must have included 
supervising emergency management or homeland security activities, or both.
    For the full text of these 
proposed amendments, go to 
honoluluelections.us.2024 VOTER GUIDE  
90
General ElectionGeneral Election
Charter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Honolulu City Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE CITY AND COUNTY OF 
HONOLULU, DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
QUESTION #3
QUESTION
Shall the Revised City Charter be amended to establish an Ocean Safety 
Commission to review and make recommendations on certain activities of the 
Department of Ocean Safety and to appoint and remove the Chief of Ocean Safety?
PRESENT SITUATION
Pursuant to his authority under Revised City Charter Section 4-202, the mayor 
recently established the department of ocean safety (“OSD”) as a standalone agency 
independent from the department of emergency services under which it fell. The 
OSD is headed by a director of ocean safety who is appointed and may be removed 
by the mayor.
IF PROPOSAL PASSES
This resolution will amend the Charter to create a ﬁ  ve-member ocean safety 
commission within the OSD that will have the authority, among other things, to 
make recommendations on the OSD’s annual budget; review OSD operations 
and recommend improvements; perform annual evaluations of the ocean safety 
chief’s performance; hear citizen complaints about the OSD or its personnel, and 
recommend corrective actions to the OSD chief; and submit annual reports to the 
mayor and council on OSD activities. 
In addition, the position title of OSD “director” will be replaced by the title, OSD 
“chief.” The OSD chief will be appointed by the ocean safety commission and may be 
removed only after receiving the reasons for their removal and an opportunity for 
a hearing before the ocean safety commission. The OSD director appointed by the 
mayor will continue to hold the position on December 31, 2024, and will continue to 
serve as OSD director until the ocean safety commission appoints a new chief.
    
For the full text of these 
proposed amendments, go to 
honoluluelections.us.2024 VOTER GUIDE
91
General ElectionGeneral ElectionCharter Ammendments 2024 Proposed Amendments to the Honolulu City Charter
THESE STATEMENTS WERE PROVIDED BY THE CITY AND COUNTY OF 
HONOLULU, DEPARTMENT OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
QUESTION #4
QUESTION
Shall the Revised City Charter provisions relating to the salaries for 
Councilmembers be amended to cap any annual increase at no more than ﬁ  ve 
percent, require that any changes be tied to the average annual salary changes of 
city employees in the City’s collective bargaining units, and remove the Council’s 
authority to vote on its own raises?
PRESENT SITUATION
Pursuant to Revised City Charter Section 3-122, the salary commission 
(“Commission”) establishes by resolution the salaries for certain municipal positions, 
including those of the City Council. These salaries must accord with the principles 
of “adequate compensation for work performed” and “preservation of a sensible 
relationship with the salaries of other City employees.” The City Council may accept 
or reject any portion of the Commission’s resolution, including any part relating to 
the Councilmembers’ own salaries.
IF PROPOSAL PASSES
The Charter will be amended to require that the Commission issue one resolution 
establishing the salaries for Councilmembers and a separate resolution establishing 
the salaries for other positions. 
With regard to Councilmembers’ salaries, any future raises would be capped at 5% 
annually and be required to be “substantially equivalent” to the average of the most 
recent annual salary changes of the city’s various collective bargaining units. The 
City Council will no longer have the authority to accept or reject the Commission’s 
resolution related to its own salaries.
    
For the full text of these 
proposed amendments, go to 
honoluluelections.us.Contact Us
For information about registering to vote,
contact your County Elections Division.
County of Hawaii (808) 961-8277
County of Maui (808) 270-7749
County of Kauai (808) 241-4800
City & County of Honolulu (808) 768-3800
For additional voting information, 
contact the Oﬃ   ce of Elections.
Phone: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Toll Free: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Toll Free TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Email: elections@hawaii.gov
Website: elections.hawaii.gov
VOTERVOTER
GUIDEGUIDE20242024  HawaiiHawaiiGeneralGeneral

--- Text from PDF (https://digitalvoterguide.hawaii.gov/wp-content/themes/hawaii-elections/assets/pdf/general_digital_voter_guide_zh.pdf) ---
普選普選1
選民指南選民指南20242024 夏威夷夏威夷一般資訊一般資訊2024 選民指南 普選普選
202
來自選務長的訊息
03
什麼是選民指南？
03
標記您的行事曆
03
選民登記
04
郵寄投票
04
填寫完您的郵寄選票
04
寄回您的郵寄選票
04
處理您的選票
04
追蹤您的選票
04
查看選舉結果選民指南選民指南20242024 夏威夷夏威夷
阿羅哈來自選務長 的訊息 
我們很榮幸代表夏威夷州選務辦公室發佈 2024 年選民指南！由於 2023 年立法會
議期間通過第 115號法案，夏威夷的選民史上首次獲得這項寶貴的資源。感謝每一
位針對該法案進行倡議並推動法案建立的人。
作為已登記選民，您預計可在選舉日約 18天前收到郵寄選票。請務必檢查您的選民
登記資料是否為最新資訊，確保您的選票正確送達。如果您自上次選舉以來已搬遷
或更改郵寄地址， 則必須更新您的登記資訊。另請注意， 選票需要在選舉日晚上 7:00
之前寄回，不以加蓋郵戳為準。
請相信我們致力於為夏威夷居民進行安全、可靠和透明的選舉，我們感謝您參與民
主進程。
謹啟，
Scott  T. Nago
2024 選民指南 普選普選3
04
選民服務中心
05
無障礙投票
05
競選支出
05
道德委員會
06
您的投票權
06
語言協助
07
縣選舉部門
07
聯絡我們
08-78
候選人聲明
79-91
修正案提案
什麼是選民指南？
選民指南由夏威夷州選務辦公室出版，以確保您了解選舉相關流程和您將投票的競選公職之資訊。
這份指南包括選民登記、重要日期以及選票追蹤方式和無障礙投票等相關資源的資訊。此外，選舉
辦公室也編製要競選公職的候選人所遞交的競選聲明和照片。
競選聲明和照片的編製方式？
每個候選人在申請競選公職時都有機會提供簡短的競選聲明和照片。候選人會按照以下指示，撰寫
長度少於 150字的競選聲明：將競選聲明視作履歷、提出願景並保持正向態度、說明當選後想要達
成的目標，並避免批評對手。
候選人提供的競選聲明和照片將如實刊登在指南中。候選人的選票姓名、法定姓名、政治立場和聯
絡資訊也會一並公佈。如果候選人未提供競選聲明或照片，其候選人資訊旁邊將顯示「未遞交競選
聲明」或「未遞交照片」字樣。
標記您的行事曆
2024 年初選
• 10月18日：留意郵寄的普選選票包裹。
• 10月22日 ：選民服務中心開放至選舉日 ，供選民登記和進行無障礙親自投票 。請瀏覽
elections.hawaii.gov 查看地點、日期和時間。
• 10月28日：使用紙本的普選選民登記申請表登記投票的截止時間為下午 4點30分。
• 10月29日：申請缺席選票的截止時間為下午 4點30分。
• 11月5日：普選。已投票的選票必須在晚上 7:00 前寄回。
選民登記
登記投票資格？
必須為美國公民、 夏威夷居民， 且至少年滿 18歲。
如果您年滿 16歲，您可以預先登記投票，並在
您年滿 18歲時自動登記。 
最快的登記方式是什麼？
線上！使用您的夏威夷駕照或夏威夷州 ID，只
需幾分鐘即可在 elections.hawaii.gov 上登記。
如果您沒有夏威夷 ID，可以透過網站或在郵局
和圖書館取得可列印的申請表。 
我該如何聲明黨籍？
您會注意到，您在登記投票時，系統不會過問您
的政黨黨籍。這不是失誤。夏威夷選民在登記投
票時不用聲明黨籍。我每年都要登記投票嗎？
不，您不需要在每次選舉前登記投票。但是，您
有責任維持最新登記資料。如果您的姓名、居住
地或郵寄地址在兩次選舉之間發生變化，您需要
更新您的選民登記資料。選務人員會根據您目前
的選民登記資料來為您分配選票，並將選票寄送
到您手中。請養成在每個選舉年開始時檢查選民
登記資料的習慣！在 elections.hawaii.gov 上檢
查並更新您的登記資料。
我在哪裡投票？
您的選票會送到您手上！夏威夷是郵寄投票州，
代表每次選舉時，作為已登記選民的您都會自動
收到郵寄來的選票。由於投票以郵寄方式進行，
我們的選舉時程不只有一天，一旦選票送達您的
信箱，您就可以開始投票了。您也可以使用本指
南中所述的其他選項。例如，您可以親自到選民
服務中心投票， 服務中心會提供無障礙投票裝置。2024 選民指南 普選普選
4
郵寄投票
下列是您需要了解的郵寄投票相關資訊。
您的郵寄選票：
• 會自動寄至您的郵寄地址
• 會在選舉日前 18天寄達
• 需要您的簽名才能成功計票
• 需要在選舉日的晚上 7:00 前寄回
如果我沒有收到選票，怎麼辦？
如果您沒有收到選票，請聯絡您的縣選舉部門，他們將為您發放替換選票。
如果選票填寫錯誤，怎麼辦？
如果您的選票錯誤填寫、遺失，或損壞，請向您的縣選舉部門申請替換選票。
我寄回選票後能改變心意嗎？
不能。一旦您寄回已投票的選票且縣選舉部門收到該選票，該選票即視為已投出，您將無法收到新
的選票。
如果選舉期間我不在，我該如何投票？
如果您在選舉期間離開，您可以申請缺席選票寄往其他地址。僅需填寫缺席選票申請表並註明您屬
意的選票郵寄地點即可。
填寫完您的郵寄選票
1節 投票前，請查看選票兩面。如要投票，請用黑色或藍色筆塗滿您選擇的方框。
2節 投票後，將選票放入保密封套。然後，將保密封套放入回郵信封中。
3節 閱讀確認聲明並在回郵信封上簽名。您必須在回郵信封上簽名，以便計入您的選票。
寄回您的郵寄選票
透過郵寄： 使用預先寫好地址、郵資已付的回郵信封郵寄您的選票。請留意 USPS 的送達時間，確
保在截止日期前寄達。
透過選票投遞箱： 將您已投票的選票投到您所在縣內的選票投遞箱。請瀏覽 elections.hawaii.gov 查
看地點、日期和時間。
您的縣選舉部門必須在選舉日晚上 7:00 前收到已投票的選票，才能計入您的選票。
處理您的選票
收到回郵信封後，將掃描上面的條碼。選票專屬條碼可讓選務人員追蹤您的選票回郵情況，並防止
任何人多次投票。
回郵信封上的簽名將與您選民記錄上的簽名進行比對。如果選務人員無法確認兩者是否相符，您將
收到通知，需在選舉後五個工作日內解決此問題。
如果您的簽名比對成功，您的選票將被安全地運送到計票中心。在計票中心，您的選票將透過計票
掃描器處理。追蹤您的選票
透過簡訊 、電子郵件或語音電話在
elections.hawaii.gov 上註冊選票追蹤提
醒。這項服務可讓您知道您的選票在哪裡，
並發送重要提醒，包括在選票回郵截止日期
臨近時發出提醒。
查看選舉結果
選舉日晚上 7:00 後 ，您可以開始在
elections.hawaii.gov 上查看選舉結果。結
果會不斷更新，直到截止日期之前收到的所
有有效選票都被計票完畢。
您預計可看到下列發佈結果：
• 報告 1會在選舉日選民服務中心關閉後發
佈。
• 報告 2定於選舉日晚上 10:30 發佈。
• 一旦所有回郵信封都經過縣選舉部門的
簽名檢查並經過計票中心的處理後，就
會發佈選舉日最終報告。
• 選舉最終報告將在 5個工作日的選民簽
名糾正期後發佈。
選民服務中心
提供當日登記和投票，以及無障礙投票。
請瀏覽 elections.hawaii.gov 查看地點、日
期和時間。2024 選民指南 普選普選5
無障礙投票
提供無障礙投票選項。考慮哪種投票方法可以滿足您的需求。
1節在家用紙本選票投票。
• 自動郵件遞送。 您的選票包裹將直接寄達您的郵寄地址。
• 您可以找人幫忙。 如果您在查看、劃記和回郵選票時有困難，您可以尋求協助。如果您無法獨立簽署回郵信封，您可以請您信任的人幫助
閱讀您的選票、劃記您的選擇並擔任您的見證人。您的雇主或您的工會專員不得為您提供協助。
• 提供預付回郵信封。 使用提供的回郵信封郵寄您的選票。無需額外郵資。
如要在家使用紙本選票投票： 登記投票後，每次選舉您都會自動收到郵寄選票。無需單獨提出申請。
2節使用無障礙電子選票在家投票。 如果您有閱讀障礙並且無法閱讀標準印刷體，您有資格使用電子選票進行投票。
• 便利的電子郵件寄送。 您的電子選票已安全發送到您的電子信箱。選票本身未連線到網路，僅以電子方式傳輸。
• 可支援個人輔助裝置。 使用家用輔助裝置獨立查看和劃記您的選票。電子選票支援所有主要瀏覽器、 裝置尺寸 (包括智慧型手機和平板電腦 ) 
以及個人輔助裝置。
使用無障礙電子選票進行投票：   您在登記投票時，請選取申請電子選票的選項並確認您符合資格。您需要提供您的電子信箱。
3節使用選票劃記裝置在選民服務中心投票。 如果您無法用筆手動劃記選票，請前往選民服務中心使用無障礙選票劃記裝置「 Verity  
Touch  Writer 」。
• 無障礙增進功能。 Verity  Touch  Writer 讓您透過電子介面獨自選擇選票。裝置特點包括大型觸控螢幕介面、用來輪換選票的轉輪控制台、
支援觸摸開關和「吹吸」裝置、可調整文字大小和螢幕對比度以利檢視，以及可收聽音訊的耳機功能。
• 全州都會提供無障礙機器。 所有選民服務中心都配備了 Verity  Touch  Writer 。選民服務中心最早從選舉日前 10個工作日開放，讓您有充足
的時間前往投票地點。
• 這並非電子投票。 Verity  Touch  Writer 只是一種電子裝置，可幫助您查看和劃記選票。投票後，您將列印用於掃描計票的紙本選票。不論
是在選民服務中心列印的選票，還是透過郵寄獲得的選票，所有選民使用的選票都相同。
如要使用選票劃記裝置： 請前往您所在縣的選民服務中心。在前往之前進行登記可會減少您的等待時間。
競選支出
如要檢視候選人的捐款和支出，請瀏覽競選支出委員會網站 csc.hawaii.gov/CFSPublic/menu/ 。
道德委員會
如要檢視州候選人的候選人財務揭露資訊，請瀏覽州道德委員會網站 hawaiiethics.my.site.com/public/s/ 。2024 選民指南 普選普選
6您的投票權
投票保密權
• 您的投票是匿名的，不會連結您或您的選民登記資料。您的選舉投票方式不會留下紀錄。
• 夏威夷選民在登記投票時無須聲明黨籍。夏威夷選舉辦公室不會過問，也不會記錄您的黨籍。
獲得選舉日服務的權利
• 如果您尚未登記在選舉日投票，您仍然可以前往您所在縣的選民服務中心登記。您得為該選舉
親自投票，並且收到未來選舉的郵寄選票。
• 如果您在排隊，就不要離開。投票截止時間為選舉日晚上 7:00，然而，若截止時您正在選民服
務中心排隊投票或在選票投遞箱投遞郵寄選票，則允許您繼續投票。選務人員會標記隊伍末端，
如果您離開排隊，則不得重新加入。
• 要是您無法確認您的選民登記資料，您可以申請暫定選票。暫定選票可讓您先投出選票，而縣
選舉部門會再確認您的選民登記資料，判定是否計入您的選票。
登記投票的權利
• 若您是遊民或不具備傳統意義上的居住地址，您仍然有資格登記投票。您在登記時，請描述您
棲身的地點 - 例如十字路口和地標，以利選務人員判斷您的投票區。選務人員會提供投票選項
的相關指引，包括在選民服務中心親自投票。
• 若您是審前被拘留者、在緩刑期間或監禁後假釋者，您仍保留登記和投票的權利。若您被判犯
有重罪，則您在監禁期間不得投票，然而，若您處於緩刑或假釋期間，您將恢復投票的權利。
不在夏威夷時的投票權利
• 若您暫時離開夏威夷住所，您可以遞交缺席選票申請表，請求選舉辦公室將缺席選票郵寄到其
他地址。
• 若您是現役軍人、現役軍人的配偶或家屬或居住在海外的美國公民，您有資格在夏威夷選舉中
進行投票。透過填寫聯邦明信片申請表，選票將郵寄給旅居海外的您。
獲得語言協助的權利
• 投票資料有中文、奧萊洛夏威夷文、伊洛卡諾文和他加祿文版本，如需其他語言協助，請聯絡
選舉辦公室。
無障礙投票和獲得協助的權利
• 如果您在選舉過程中需要協助，包括登記投票或查看、劃記和回郵選票，您得請人協助。值得
注意的是，為了保護您免受選民的恐嚇，您不得接受選票上的候選人、您的雇主或工會專員的
協助。
• 可以使用無障礙投票方式私下獨自投票。身心障礙選民可以申請無障礙電子選票，或前往選民
服務中心使用無障礙投票裝置，查看和劃記他們的選票。語言協助
Cast your
vote in
comfort. 
Your ballot comes to you.Mark your
calendar.
Oct 18 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your General Election ballot     
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Oct 22 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation.
Oct 28 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the General Election.
Nov 5 | General Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Jul 23 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your Primary Election ballot      
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Jul 29 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation. 
Jul 31 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the Primary Election.
Aug 10 | Primary Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Language assistance
Contact us如需翻譯後的選舉材料或語言協助，請聯絡選舉辦公室。
For information about registering to vote, 
contact your County Elections Division.
County of Hawaii (808) 961-8277
County of Maui (808) 270-7749
County of Kauai (808) 241-4800
City & County of Honolulu (808) 768-3800
For additional voting information, contact the 
Ofﬁce of Elections.
Phone: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Toll Free: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Toll Free TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Email: elections@hawaii.gov
Website: elections.hawaii.gov2024 Primary Election 
2024 General ElectionNeed to vote absentee? 
If you will be away from home during the 
elections, you can request your ballot be sent 
to an alternate address. Complete an Absentee 
Ballot Application and submit it to your County 
Elections Division no later than 7 days before 
the election. Applications are available at 
elections.hawaii.gov.
Prefer to vote in person? 
Voter Service Centers offer in-person accessible 
voting and voter registration, and are open 10 
business days before and on Election Day. For 
locations and hours, go to elections.hawaii.gov.2024選民指南
 普選普選7縣選舉部門
夏威夷縣
25 Aupuni Street
Room 1502
Hilo, Hawaii 96720
(808) 961-8277
hiloelec@hawaiicounty.gov
毛伊縣
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
(808) 270-7749
county.clerk@mauicounty.us
可愛島縣
4386 Rice Street
Room 101
Lihue, Hawaii 96766
(808) 241-4800
elections@kauai.gov
Honolulu 市縣
530 South King Street
Room 100
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
(808) 768-3800
elections@honolulu.gov
聯絡我們
選務辦公室
802 Lehua Avenue
Pearl City, Hawaii 96782
(808) 453-VOTE (8683)
elections@hawaii.gov
免費電話： 1-800-442-VOTE  (8683)
TTY：(808)  453-6150
免費 TTY：1-800-345-5915免責聲明： 下列數頁的競選聲明由候
選人提供，其準確性未經查證。候選
人所表達的觀點和意見僅代表自身觀
點和意見，不一定代表選務辦公室的
觀點和意見。2024 選民指南 
 普選普選8總統和副總統－社會主義與解放黨（ SL）
選票姓名：
GARCIA, Karina
法定姓名：
Karina  Garcia 
社會主義和自由派政黨
副總統
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Karina  Garcia(卡琳娜 ·加西亞 )是一名奇卡諾人組織者和教育工作者，從
17歲起就不斷為更美好的未來而奮鬥。 Karina(卡琳娜 )在獲得哥倫比亞大學全額獎
學金後，擔任過高中數學老師。她曾協助主導墮胎權、家政勞工權利、移民者的完
整權利和取消學生債務等運動。這場競選活動是為呼籲建立一個為勞工階級而不是
億萬富翁服務的全新經濟。一個由勞工階級組成的政府可以滿足人民的需求 –例如
將免費醫療、各級免費教育、免費兒童照顧、適用住房和工會工作等列入憲法權利。
Claudia和Karina(卡琳娜 )正在代表爭取社會主義和解放黨 (PSL)參加競選，該黨正
在為窮人和勞動人民的迫切需求以及新社會 –社會主義而奮鬥。這場競選活動不只
是一場選舉，而是發起一場獨立於兩個親企業政黨的群眾運動。選票姓名：
ONAK, Lauren
法定姓名：
Lauren M. Onak 
團結黨
副總統
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
	 總統和副總統候選人遞交了一份聯合聲明。
選票姓名：
TER MAAT, Mike
法定姓名：
Michael A. ter Maat 
自由黨
副總統
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )在經濟學領域有著成功的職業生涯，這
在他在白宮管理和預算辦公室以及大學教學中的工作中得到了體現。在 Washington  
DC華府服務期間， 他主張了更自由的金融服務市場。 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )
在佛羅裡達州的 Broward縣擔任了 11.5年的警察。他親眼目睹了執法方面進行重大
改革的必要性，其中包括了將薪酬與績效連結，以及用個人責任保險取代合格豁
免權。 Ter Maat(特爾 ·馬特 )的外交政策強調道德和不干涉，避免外援和軍事介入，
同時利用貿易來鼓勵和穩定外交關係。 Ter Maat(特爾 ·馬特 )提議削減合法移民的
障礙，並增加向邊境提供的資源以加快審查速度。 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )
主張權力下放，以限制政府權力並遵守我們的《權利法案》 。選票姓名：
VANCE, JD
法定姓名：
James David Vance 
共和黨
副總統
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
	 我很榮幸能在恢復這個偉大國家的過程中與 Donald  J. Trump(唐納 ·J·川普 )
總統並肩合作。雖然遭受到無情的攻擊， Trump(川普 )總統仍對美國人民有著堅
定不移的奉獻精神。他進入政壇並不是為了自己 —他這樣做是因為美國需要他。
Trump(川普 )總統將美國放在第一位，為勞工、家庭和族群而戰。在他的領導下，
我們看到了歷史上最強勁的經濟、安全的邊境，並重燃了美國的榮耀。華府的建制
派反對他，是因為他是為您工作，而不是為他們工作。這場選舉相當重要。在 Joe 
Biden的領導下，我們看到了經濟衰退、全球不穩定和犯罪率上升。 Kamala  Harris只
會讓事情變得更糟。但是有了 Trump(川普 )總統，我們就能恢復曾經享有的實力和
繁榮。我很自豪能夠與 Trump(川普 )總統並肩合作，並懇請您賜票給我們。讓我們
再次推舉他，並繼續恢復美國的偉大。感謝，願上帝保佑美國。
選票姓名：
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
法定姓名：
Claudia  De La Cruz 
社會主義和自由派政黨
總統
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Claudia  De la Cruz(克勞迪婭 ·德·拉·克魯茲 )是一名母親、教育家、牧師
和終身社區組織者，她致力於為勞工階級伸張正義。我們總說「在資本主義終結我
們之前終結它」 。當地人承受著高住房成本、食品雜貨和債務的沉重負擔。這個體
制讓少數億萬富翁管理著經濟、發動戰爭並摧毀地球。華爾街和企業政客利用軍隊
奪取、摧毀和污染從 Red Hill到Gaza的土地。從政府對 Lahaina的忽視到掠奪夏威
夷各地的土地，資本家更關心的是建造度假村而不是重建社區。我們支持夏威夷民
族有權自決以及全體移民的完整權利。我們支持停止對美國黑人的戰爭、結束對巴
勒斯坦人的種族滅絕，並結束 US對以色列的援助。我們想要和平，而不是無止盡
的戰爭。讓我們共同發起一場人權正義運動！選票姓名：
HARRIS, Kamala D.
法定姓名：
Kamala D. Harris 
民主黨
總統
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Harris(哈里斯 )副總統正在爭取一條新的前進道路，以保護我們的基本
自由，包括婦女的選擇權、加強我們的民主政治，並確保每個人不僅有機會過日
子，而且有機會取得進步。身為檢察官、司法部部長、參議員以及現任美國副總統，
Kamala  Harris(卡瑪拉 ·哈里斯 )總是為人民挺身而出，對抗掠奪者、欺詐者和強大
的利益團體。她出生於中產階級家庭，由職業母親撫養長大，她相信，只要中產階
級強大，美國就會強大，作為總統，她將把降低生活成本和增加經濟安全作為其
首要任務。她承諾成為所有美國人的總統， 一位將我們最遠大的願景放在中心位置，
使我們團結在一起的總統，一位永遠為美國人民而戰的總統。從法院到白宮，這是
她一生的工作。
選票姓名：
OLIVER, Chase
法定姓名：
Chase Russell Oliver 
自由黨
總統
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
	 在走遍了所有 50個州之後，我親眼目睹了通貨膨脹和政府的過度干預如
何阻礙人民前進。透過削減支出和平衡預算，我們可以降低每個人的生活成本並增
強經濟。我將結束戰爭， 讓我們的軍隊回家， 並廢除《瓊斯法案》以降低運輸成本，
讓夏威夷人獲得更實惠的雜貨。讓我們消除政府障礙，幫助我們的國家再次繁榮。選票姓名：
SONSKI, Peter
法定姓名：
Peter  Sonski 
團結黨
總統
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com
	 美國團結黨致力於透過以基督教民主主義價值為指引的審慎政策來改善
我們的國家和世界。 Peter Sonski(彼得 ·桑斯基 )和Lauren  Onak(勞倫 ·奧納克 )相信，
所有人 –無論是未出生的、體弱的、貧窮的還是被監禁的 –都擁有與生俱來且不能
被剝奪的人性尊嚴。我們對彼此的承諾要求我們在各級政府或社會各層面共同追
求正義，以充分滿足我們家庭和社區的需求。我們相信環保主義，它將人民和社
區放在首要位置，同時為後代子孫保護我們的星球。我們支持友善家庭政策，透
過減少家庭面臨的經濟障礙， 讓家庭擁有力量， 能夠歡迎他們的孩子來到這個世界。
我們維護勞工和當地企業的權益，並為廣義的所有權經濟發展建立激勵措施。2024選民指南
 普選普選9總統和副總統－民主黨（ D）
選票姓名：
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
法定姓名：
Claudia  De La Cruz 
社會主義和自由派政黨
總統
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Claudia  De la Cruz(克勞迪婭 ·德·拉·克魯茲 )是一名母親、教育家、牧師
和終身社區組織者，她致力於為勞工階級伸張正義。我們總說「在資本主義終結我
們之前終結它」 。當地人承受著高住房成本、食品雜貨和債務的沉重負擔。這個體
制讓少數億萬富翁管理著經濟、發動戰爭並摧毀地球。華爾街和企業政客利用軍隊
奪取、摧毀和污染從 Red Hill到Gaza的土地。從政府對 Lahaina的忽視到掠奪夏威
夷各地的土地，資本家更關心的是建造度假村而不是重建社區。我們支持夏威夷民
族有權自決以及全體移民的完整權利。我們支持停止對美國黑人的戰爭、結束對巴
勒斯坦人的種族滅絕，並結束 US對以色列的援助。我們想要和平，而不是無止盡
的戰爭。讓我們共同發起一場人權正義運動！
選票姓名：
HARRIS, Kamala D.
法定姓名：
Kamala D. Harris 
民主黨
總統
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Harris(哈里斯 )副總統正在爭取一條新的前進道路，以保護我們的基本
自由，包括婦女的選擇權、加強我們的民主政治，並確保每個人不僅有機會過日
子，而且有機會取得進步。身為檢察官、司法部部長、參議員以及現任美國副總統，
Kamala  Harris(卡瑪拉 ·哈里斯 )總是為人民挺身而出，對抗掠奪者、欺詐者和強大
的利益團體。她出生於中產階級家庭，由職業母親撫養長大，她相信，只要中產階
級強大，美國就會強大，作為總統，她將把降低生活成本和增加經濟安全作為其
首要任務。她承諾成為所有美國人的總統， 一位將我們最遠大的願景放在中心位置，
使我們團結在一起的總統，一位永遠為美國人民而戰的總統。從法院到白宮，這是
她一生的工作。
選票姓名：
OLIVER, Chase
法定姓名：
Chase Russell Oliver 
自由黨
總統
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
	 在走遍了所有 50個州之後，我親眼目睹了通貨膨脹和政府的過度干預如
何阻礙人民前進。透過削減支出和平衡預算，我們可以降低每個人的生活成本並增
強經濟。我將結束戰爭， 讓我們的軍隊回家， 並廢除《瓊斯法案》以降低運輸成本，
讓夏威夷人獲得更實惠的雜貨。讓我們消除政府障礙，幫助我們的國家再次繁榮。選票姓名：
SONSKI, Peter
法定姓名：
Peter  Sonski 
團結黨
總統
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com
	 美國團結黨致力於透過以基督教民主主義價值為指引的審慎政策來改善
我們的國家和世界。 Peter Sonski(彼得 ·桑斯基 )和Lauren  Onak(勞倫 ·奧納克 )相信，
所有人 –無論是未出生的、體弱的、貧窮的還是被監禁的 –都擁有與生俱來且不能
被剝奪的人性尊嚴。我們對彼此的承諾要求我們在各級政府或社會各層面共同追
求正義，以充分滿足我們家庭和社區的需求。我們相信環保主義，它將人民和社
區放在首要位置，同時為後代子孫保護我們的星球。我們支持友善家庭政策，透
過減少家庭面臨的經濟障礙， 讓家庭擁有力量， 能夠歡迎他們的孩子來到這個世界。
我們維護勞工和當地企業的權益，並為廣義的所有權經濟發展建立激勵措施。
選票姓名：
WALZ, Tim
法定姓名：
Timothy J. Walz 
民主黨
副總統
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
	 州長 Tim Walz(提姆 ·沃爾茲 )是美國勞工家庭的捍衛者。他在陸軍國民
警衛隊服役了 24年。 Walz(沃爾茲 )作為教師和橄欖球教練努力為他的社區服務 –
帶領他的球隊在學校歷史上首次獲得州冠軍。他曾在一個共和黨選票區當選為國
會議員，他在該選區擔任眾議院退伍軍人事務委員會的資深成員，並通過了幫助
阻止退伍軍人自殺的法案。在作為州長時， Walz(沃爾茲 )減稅、降低胰島素費用、
打擊垃圾收費， 並將帶薪休假簽署成為法律。在 Trump推翻 Roe案後， Walz(沃爾茲 )
捍衛基本自由，並通過了保護婦女選擇權的法案。 Walz(沃爾茲 )是一名槍支擁有
者和獵人，他擴大了明尼蘇達州的背景調查範圍。而且，他與兩黨合作，努力通過
了兩黨都認可的基礎設施計畫。選票姓名：
WARE, Rudolph
法定姓名：
Rudolph  Ware 
綠黨
副總統
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Rudolph  "Butch"  Ware(魯道夫 ·「布奇」 ·韋爾 )教授一生都是一位行動主義
者和教育工作者，專門研究帝國、殖民主義、種族滅絕和革命的歷史。在過去的
二十年裡， Ware(韋爾 )將獎學金用於為人民服務，特別是針對 Gaza正在進行的種
族滅絕以及 2020年的 George  Floyd謀殺案。他組織了宣講會、社區教育課程以及其
他活動和組織活動。更廣泛地說， Ware(韋爾 )一直以來都是一位公共知識分子、
行動主義者、藝術家和組織者，支持全國和世界各地的社區挑戰帝國主義、種族清
洗和無休止的戰爭，並建立植根於永續、公正、和平的替代方案。 Ware(韋爾 )是
研究 U.S.黑人激進傳統、非洲和伊斯蘭教的權威學者。 Ware(韋爾 )教授是密西根
州Northwestern 大學和 UC大學 Santa-Barbara 分校的正式教員，教授歷史、黑人研究
和伊斯蘭研究。2024 選民指南 
 普選普選10總統和副總統－自由黨（ L）
選票姓名：
GARCIA, Karina
法定姓名：
Karina  Garcia 
社會主義和自由派政黨
副總統
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Karina  Garcia(卡琳娜 ·加西亞 )是一名奇卡諾人組織者和教育工作者，從
17歲起就不斷為更美好的未來而奮鬥。 Karina(卡琳娜 )在獲得哥倫比亞大學全額獎
學金後，擔任過高中數學老師。她曾協助主導墮胎權、家政勞工權利、移民者的完
整權利和取消學生債務等運動。這場競選活動是為呼籲建立一個為勞工階級而不是
億萬富翁服務的全新經濟。一個由勞工階級組成的政府可以滿足人民的需求 –例如
將免費醫療、各級免費教育、免費兒童照顧、適用住房和工會工作等列入憲法權利。
Claudia和Karina(卡琳娜 )正在代表爭取社會主義和解放黨 (PSL)參加競選，該黨正
在為窮人和勞動人民的迫切需求以及新社會 –社會主義而奮鬥。這場競選活動不只
是一場選舉，而是發起一場獨立於兩個親企業政黨的群眾運動。選票姓名：
ONAK, Lauren
法定姓名：
Lauren M. Onak 
團結黨
副總統
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
	 總統和副總統候選人遞交了一份聯合聲明。
選票姓名：
TER MAAT, Mike
法定姓名：
Michael A. ter Maat 
自由黨
副總統
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )在經濟學領域有著成功的職業生涯，這
在他在白宮管理和預算辦公室以及大學教學中的工作中得到了體現。在 Washington  
DC華府服務期間， 他主張了更自由的金融服務市場。 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )
在佛羅裡達州的 Broward縣擔任了 11.5年的警察。他親眼目睹了執法方面進行重大
改革的必要性，其中包括了將薪酬與績效連結，以及用個人責任保險取代合格豁
免權。 Ter Maat(特爾 ·馬特 )的外交政策強調道德和不干涉，避免外援和軍事介入，
同時利用貿易來鼓勵和穩定外交關係。 Ter Maat(特爾 ·馬特 )提議削減合法移民的
障礙，並增加向邊境提供的資源以加快審查速度。 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )
主張權力下放，以限制政府權力並遵守我們的《權利法案》 。選票姓名：
VANCE, JD
法定姓名：
James David Vance 
共和黨
副總統
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
	 我很榮幸能在恢復這個偉大國家的過程中與 Donald  J. Trump(唐納 ·J·川普 )
總統並肩合作。雖然遭受到無情的攻擊， Trump(川普 )總統仍對美國人民有著堅
定不移的奉獻精神。他進入政壇並不是為了自己 —他這樣做是因為美國需要他。
Trump(川普 )總統將美國放在第一位，為勞工、家庭和族群而戰。在他的領導下，
我們看到了歷史上最強勁的經濟、安全的邊境，並重燃了美國的榮耀。華府的建制
派反對他，是因為他是為您工作，而不是為他們工作。這場選舉相當重要。在 Joe 
Biden的領導下，我們看到了經濟衰退、全球不穩定和犯罪率上升。 Kamala  Harris只
會讓事情變得更糟。但是有了 Trump(川普 )總統，我們就能恢復曾經享有的實力和
繁榮。我很自豪能夠與 Trump(川普 )總統並肩合作，並懇請您賜票給我們。讓我們
再次推舉他，並繼續恢復美國的偉大。感謝，願上帝保佑美國。選票姓名：
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
法定姓名：
Claudia  De La Cruz 
社會主義和自由派政黨
總統
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Claudia  De la Cruz(克勞迪婭 ·德·拉·克魯茲 )是一名母親、教育家、牧師
和終身社區組織者，她致力於為勞工階級伸張正義。我們總說「在資本主義終結我
們之前終結它」 。當地人承受著高住房成本、食品雜貨和債務的沉重負擔。這個體
制讓少數億萬富翁管理著經濟、發動戰爭並摧毀地球。華爾街和企業政客利用軍隊
奪取、摧毀和污染從 Red Hill到Gaza的土地。從政府對 Lahaina的忽視到掠奪夏威
夷各地的土地，資本家更關心的是建造度假村而不是重建社區。我們支持夏威夷民
族有權自決以及全體移民的完整權利。我們支持停止對美國黑人的戰爭、結束對巴
勒斯坦人的種族滅絕，並結束 US對以色列的援助。我們想要和平，而不是無止盡
的戰爭。讓我們共同發起一場人權正義運動！選票姓名：
HARRIS, Kamala D.
法定姓名：
Kamala D. Harris 
民主黨
總統
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Harris(哈里斯 )副總統正在爭取一條新的前進道路，以保護我們的基本
自由，包括婦女的選擇權、加強我們的民主政治，並確保每個人不僅有機會過日
子，而且有機會取得進步。身為檢察官、司法部部長、參議員以及現任美國副總統，
Kamala  Harris(卡瑪拉 ·哈里斯 )總是為人民挺身而出，對抗掠奪者、欺詐者和強大
的利益團體。她出生於中產階級家庭，由職業母親撫養長大，她相信，只要中產階
級強大，美國就會強大，作為總統，她將把降低生活成本和增加經濟安全作為其
首要任務。她承諾成為所有美國人的總統， 一位將我們最遠大的願景放在中心位置，
使我們團結在一起的總統，一位永遠為美國人民而戰的總統。從法院到白宮，這是
她一生的工作。
選票姓名：
OLIVER, Chase
法定姓名：
Chase Russell Oliver 
自由黨
總統
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
	 在走遍了所有 50個州之後，我親眼目睹了通貨膨脹和政府的過度干預如
何阻礙人民前進。透過削減支出和平衡預算，我們可以降低每個人的生活成本並增
強經濟。我將結束戰爭， 讓我們的軍隊回家， 並廢除《瓊斯法案》以降低運輸成本，
讓夏威夷人獲得更實惠的雜貨。讓我們消除政府障礙，幫助我們的國家再次繁榮。選票姓名：
SONSKI, Peter
法定姓名：
Peter  Sonski 
團結黨
總統
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com
	 美國團結黨致力於透過以基督教民主主義價值為指引的審慎政策來改善
我們的國家和世界。 Peter Sonski(彼得 ·桑斯基 )和Lauren  Onak(勞倫 ·奧納克 )相信，
所有人 –無論是未出生的、體弱的、貧窮的還是被監禁的 –都擁有與生俱來且不能
被剝奪的人性尊嚴。我們對彼此的承諾要求我們在各級政府或社會各層面共同追
求正義，以充分滿足我們家庭和社區的需求。我們相信環保主義，它將人民和社
區放在首要位置，同時為後代子孫保護我們的星球。我們支持友善家庭政策，透
過減少家庭面臨的經濟障礙， 讓家庭擁有力量， 能夠歡迎他們的孩子來到這個世界。
我們維護勞工和當地企業的權益，並為廣義的所有權經濟發展建立激勵措施。普選普選11總統和副總統－美國團結黨（ S）
2024 選民指南
選票姓名：
GARCIA, Karina
法定姓名：
Karina  Garcia 
社會主義和自由派政黨
副總統
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Karina  Garcia(卡琳娜 ·加西亞 )是一名奇卡諾人組織者和教育工作者，從
17歲起就不斷為更美好的未來而奮鬥。 Karina(卡琳娜 )在獲得哥倫比亞大學全額獎
學金後，擔任過高中數學老師。她曾協助主導墮胎權、家政勞工權利、移民者的完
整權利和取消學生債務等運動。這場競選活動是為呼籲建立一個為勞工階級而不是
億萬富翁服務的全新經濟。一個由勞工階級組成的政府可以滿足人民的需求 –例如
將免費醫療、各級免費教育、免費兒童照顧、適用住房和工會工作等列入憲法權利。
Claudia和Karina(卡琳娜 )正在代表爭取社會主義和解放黨 (PSL)參加競選，該黨正
在為窮人和勞動人民的迫切需求以及新社會 –社會主義而奮鬥。這場競選活動不只
是一場選舉，而是發起一場獨立於兩個親企業政黨的群眾運動。
選票姓名：
ONAK, Lauren
法定姓名：
Lauren M. Onak 
團結黨
副總統
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
	 總統和副總統候選人遞交了一份聯合聲明。
選票姓名：
TER MAAT, Mike
法定姓名：
Michael A. ter Maat 
自由黨
副總統
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )在經濟學領域有著成功的職業生涯，這
在他在白宮管理和預算辦公室以及大學教學中的工作中得到了體現。在 Washington  
DC華府服務期間， 他主張了更自由的金融服務市場。 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )
在佛羅裡達州的 Broward縣擔任了 11.5年的警察。他親眼目睹了執法方面進行重大
改革的必要性，其中包括了將薪酬與績效連結，以及用個人責任保險取代合格豁
免權。 Ter Maat(特爾 ·馬特 )的外交政策強調道德和不干涉，避免外援和軍事介入，
同時利用貿易來鼓勵和穩定外交關係。 Ter Maat(特爾 ·馬特 )提議削減合法移民的
障礙，並增加向邊境提供的資源以加快審查速度。 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )
主張權力下放，以限制政府權力並遵守我們的《權利法案》 。選票姓名：
VANCE, JD
法定姓名：
James David Vance 
共和黨
副總統
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
	 我很榮幸能在恢復這個偉大國家的過程中與 Donald  J. Trump(唐納 ·J·川普 )
總統並肩合作。雖然遭受到無情的攻擊， Trump(川普 )總統仍對美國人民有著堅
定不移的奉獻精神。他進入政壇並不是為了自己 —他這樣做是因為美國需要他。
Trump(川普 )總統將美國放在第一位，為勞工、家庭和族群而戰。在他的領導下，
我們看到了歷史上最強勁的經濟、安全的邊境，並重燃了美國的榮耀。華府的建制
派反對他，是因為他是為您工作，而不是為他們工作。這場選舉相當重要。在 Joe 
Biden的領導下，我們看到了經濟衰退、全球不穩定和犯罪率上升。 Kamala  Harris只
會讓事情變得更糟。但是有了 Trump(川普 )總統，我們就能恢復曾經享有的實力和
繁榮。我很自豪能夠與 Trump(川普 )總統並肩合作，並懇請您賜票給我們。讓我們
再次推舉他，並繼續恢復美國的偉大。感謝，願上帝保佑美國。選票姓名：
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
法定姓名：
Claudia  De La Cruz 
社會主義和自由派政黨
總統
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Claudia  De la Cruz(克勞迪婭 ·德·拉·克魯茲 )是一名母親、教育家、牧師
和終身社區組織者，她致力於為勞工階級伸張正義。我們總說「在資本主義終結我
們之前終結它」 。當地人承受著高住房成本、食品雜貨和債務的沉重負擔。這個體
制讓少數億萬富翁管理著經濟、發動戰爭並摧毀地球。華爾街和企業政客利用軍隊
奪取、摧毀和污染從 Red Hill到Gaza的土地。從政府對 Lahaina的忽視到掠奪夏威
夷各地的土地，資本家更關心的是建造度假村而不是重建社區。我們支持夏威夷民
族有權自決以及全體移民的完整權利。我們支持停止對美國黑人的戰爭、結束對巴
勒斯坦人的種族滅絕，並結束 US對以色列的援助。我們想要和平，而不是無止盡
的戰爭。讓我們共同發起一場人權正義運動！選票姓名：
HARRIS, Kamala D.
法定姓名：
Kamala D. Harris 
民主黨
總統
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Harris(哈里斯 )副總統正在爭取一條新的前進道路，以保護我們的基本
自由，包括婦女的選擇權、加強我們的民主政治，並確保每個人不僅有機會過日
子，而且有機會取得進步。身為檢察官、司法部部長、參議員以及現任美國副總統，
Kamala  Harris(卡瑪拉 ·哈里斯 )總是為人民挺身而出，對抗掠奪者、欺詐者和強大
的利益團體。她出生於中產階級家庭，由職業母親撫養長大，她相信，只要中產階
級強大，美國就會強大，作為總統，她將把降低生活成本和增加經濟安全作為其
首要任務。她承諾成為所有美國人的總統， 一位將我們最遠大的願景放在中心位置，
使我們團結在一起的總統，一位永遠為美國人民而戰的總統。從法院到白宮，這是
她一生的工作。
選票姓名：
OLIVER, Chase
法定姓名：
Chase Russell Oliver 
自由黨
總統
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
	 在走遍了所有 50個州之後，我親眼目睹了通貨膨脹和政府的過度干預如
何阻礙人民前進。透過削減支出和平衡預算，我們可以降低每個人的生活成本並增
強經濟。我將結束戰爭， 讓我們的軍隊回家， 並廢除《瓊斯法案》以降低運輸成本，
讓夏威夷人獲得更實惠的雜貨。讓我們消除政府障礙，幫助我們的國家再次繁榮。
選票姓名：
SONSKI, Peter
法定姓名：
Peter  Sonski 
團結黨
總統
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com
	 美國團結黨致力於透過以基督教民主主義價值為指引的審慎政策來改善
我們的國家和世界。 Peter Sonski(彼得 ·桑斯基 )和Lauren  Onak(勞倫 ·奧納克 )相信，
所有人 –無論是未出生的、體弱的、貧窮的還是被監禁的 –都擁有與生俱來且不能
被剝奪的人性尊嚴。我們對彼此的承諾要求我們在各級政府或社會各層面共同追
求正義，以充分滿足我們家庭和社區的需求。我們相信環保主義，它將人民和社
區放在首要位置，同時為後代子孫保護我們的星球。我們支持友善家庭政策，透
過減少家庭面臨的經濟障礙， 讓家庭擁有力量， 能夠歡迎他們的孩子來到這個世界。
我們維護勞工和當地企業的權益，並為廣義的所有權經濟發展建立激勵措施。2024 選民指南 
 普選普選12總統和副總統－綠黨（ G）
選票姓名：
WALZ, Tim
法定姓名：
Timothy J. Walz 
民主黨
副總統
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
	 州長 Tim Walz(提姆 ·沃爾茲 )是美國勞工家庭的捍衛者。他在陸軍國民
警衛隊服役了 24年。 Walz(沃爾茲 )作為教師和橄欖球教練努力為他的社區服務 –
帶領他的球隊在學校歷史上首次獲得州冠軍。他曾在一個共和黨選票區當選為國
會議員，他在該選區擔任眾議院退伍軍人事務委員會的資深成員，並通過了幫助
阻止退伍軍人自殺的法案。在作為州長時， Walz(沃爾茲 )減稅、降低胰島素費用、
打擊垃圾收費， 並將帶薪休假簽署成為法律。在 Trump推翻 Roe案後， Walz(沃爾茲 )
捍衛基本自由，並通過了保護婦女選擇權的法案。 Walz(沃爾茲 )是一名槍支擁有
者和獵人，他擴大了明尼蘇達州的背景調查範圍。而且，他與兩黨合作，努力通過
了兩黨都認可的基礎設施計畫。
選票姓名：
WARE, Rudolph
法定姓名：
Rudolph  Ware 
綠黨
副總統
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Rudolph  "Butch"  Ware(魯道夫 ·「布奇」 ·韋爾 )教授一生都是一位行動主義
者和教育工作者，專門研究帝國、殖民主義、種族滅絕和革命的歷史。在過去的
二十年裡， Ware(韋爾 )將獎學金用於為人民服務，特別是針對 Gaza正在進行的種
族滅絕以及 2020年的 George  Floyd謀殺案。他組織了宣講會、社區教育課程以及其
他活動和組織活動。更廣泛地說， Ware(韋爾 )一直以來都是一位公共知識分子、
行動主義者、藝術家和組織者，支持全國和世界各地的社區挑戰帝國主義、種族清
洗和無休止的戰爭，並建立植根於永續、公正、和平的替代方案。 Ware(韋爾 )是
研究 U.S.黑人激進傳統、非洲和伊斯蘭教的權威學者。 Ware(韋爾 )教授是密西根
州Northwestern 大學和 UC大學 Santa-Barbara 分校的正式教員，教授歷史、黑人研究
和伊斯蘭研究。
選票姓名：
STEIN, Jill
法定姓名：
Jill  Stein 
綠黨
總統
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
	 這個政治體系已經支離破碎。兩個華爾街黨派都是花錢買來的。兩者都
拋棄了勞動人民，忽視了住房、醫療保健和教育，加劇了氣候危機，並在無休止
的戰爭機器上浪費了數兆美元。如今，超過 60%的人認為兩黨體制已經失敗，我
們需要一個為人民服務的政黨。我競選是為了提供這樣的選擇：在全國的選票上
進行支持勞工、 反戰、 氣候行動的運動。我們拒絕來自企業和億萬富翁的貪腐資金。
我們將為有利於勞動人民的經濟而奮鬥，提供全民醫療保險、可負擔的住房、免費
公共高等教育、結束大規模監禁和警察暴力、為被奴役和殖民人民的後代提供賠償
等等。我們需要真正的綠色新政並結束無止盡的戰爭。我們必須結束巴勒斯坦的種
族滅絕。選票姓名：
TRUMP, Donald J.
法定姓名：
Donald John Trump 
共和黨
總統
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
	 我拋棄了以前的生活，正因為我再也無法冷眼旁觀，看著職業政客讓這
個國家流血殆盡。在作為總統時，我對抗了有權有勢的特殊利益集團、修正了差勁
的貿易協議、結束了對外戰爭、確保了邊境安全，並挺身而出對抗大型製藥公司和
中國。我們一同堅持美國優先，並將權力歸還給人民。但今天，腐敗的政府卡特爾
正在摧毀我們的國家。我們正在親歷對言論自由的攻擊、猖獗的犯罪、恐怖分子
湧入我們的邊界， 以及經濟衰退。自由和信仰正遭受圍攻。我們「讓美國再次偉大」
的運動是唯一足以恢復安全、 繁榮與和平的力量。我將釋放美國的活力、 繼續減稅、
廢除令人窒息的法規， 並停止浪費性支出。我們已經建立過一次最偉大的美國經濟，
我們並將再次實現。我們將共同恢復美國的繁榮和偉大。2024選民指南
 普選普選13總統和副總統－共和黨（ R）
選票姓名：
GARCIA, Karina
法定姓名：
Karina  Garcia 
社會主義和自由派政黨
副總統
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Karina  Garcia(卡琳娜 ·加西亞 )是一名奇卡諾人組織者和教育工作者，從
17歲起就不斷為更美好的未來而奮鬥。 Karina(卡琳娜 )在獲得哥倫比亞大學全額獎
學金後，擔任過高中數學老師。她曾協助主導墮胎權、家政勞工權利、移民者的完
整權利和取消學生債務等運動。這場競選活動是為呼籲建立一個為勞工階級而不是
億萬富翁服務的全新經濟。一個由勞工階級組成的政府可以滿足人民的需求 –例如
將免費醫療、各級免費教育、免費兒童照顧、適用住房和工會工作等列入憲法權利。
Claudia和Karina(卡琳娜 )正在代表爭取社會主義和解放黨 (PSL)參加競選，該黨正
在為窮人和勞動人民的迫切需求以及新社會 –社會主義而奮鬥。這場競選活動不只
是一場選舉，而是發起一場獨立於兩個親企業政黨的群眾運動。選票姓名：
ONAK, Lauren
法定姓名：
Lauren M. Onak 
團結黨
副總統
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
	 總統和副總統候選人遞交了一份聯合聲明。
選票姓名：
TER MAAT, Mike
法定姓名：
Michael A. ter Maat 
自由黨
副總統
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )在經濟學領域有著成功的職業生涯，這
在他在白宮管理和預算辦公室以及大學教學中的工作中得到了體現。在 Washington  
DC華府服務期間， 他主張了更自由的金融服務市場。 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )
在佛羅裡達州的 Broward縣擔任了 11.5年的警察。他親眼目睹了執法方面進行重大
改革的必要性，其中包括了將薪酬與績效連結，以及用個人責任保險取代合格豁
免權。 Ter Maat(特爾 ·馬特 )的外交政策強調道德和不干涉，避免外援和軍事介入，
同時利用貿易來鼓勵和穩定外交關係。 Ter Maat(特爾 ·馬特 )提議削減合法移民的
障礙，並增加向邊境提供的資源以加快審查速度。 Mike ter Maat(麥克 ·特爾 ·馬特 )
主張權力下放，以限制政府權力並遵守我們的《權利法案》 。
選票姓名：
VANCE, JD
法定姓名：
James David Vance 
共和黨
副總統
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
	 我很榮幸能在恢復這個偉大國家的過程中與 Donald  J. Trump(唐納 ·J·川普 )
總統並肩合作。雖然遭受到無情的攻擊， Trump(川普 )總統仍對美國人民有著堅
定不移的奉獻精神。他進入政壇並不是為了自己 —他這樣做是因為美國需要他。
Trump(川普 )總統將美國放在第一位，為勞工、家庭和族群而戰。在他的領導下，
我們看到了歷史上最強勁的經濟、安全的邊境，並重燃了美國的榮耀。華府的建制
派反對他，是因為他是為您工作，而不是為他們工作。這場選舉相當重要。在 Joe 
Biden的領導下，我們看到了經濟衰退、全球不穩定和犯罪率上升。 Kamala  Harris只
會讓事情變得更糟。但是有了 Trump(川普 )總統，我們就能恢復曾經享有的實力和
繁榮。我很自豪能夠與 Trump(川普 )總統並肩合作，並懇請您賜票給我們。讓我們
再次推舉他，並繼續恢復美國的偉大。感謝，願上帝保佑美國。選票姓名：
STEIN, Jill
法定姓名：
Jill  Stein 
綠黨
總統
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
	 這個政治體系已經支離破碎。兩個華爾街黨派都是花錢買來的。兩者都
拋棄了勞動人民，忽視了住房、醫療保健和教育，加劇了氣候危機，並在無休止
的戰爭機器上浪費了數兆美元。如今，超過 60%的人認為兩黨體制已經失敗，我
們需要一個為人民服務的政黨。我競選是為了提供這樣的選擇：在全國的選票上
進行支持勞工、 反戰、 氣候行動的運動。我們拒絕來自企業和億萬富翁的貪腐資金。
我們將為有利於勞動人民的經濟而奮鬥，提供全民醫療保險、可負擔的住房、免費
公共高等教育、結束大規模監禁和警察暴力、為被奴役和殖民人民的後代提供賠償
等等。我們需要真正的綠色新政並結束無止盡的戰爭。我們必須結束巴勒斯坦的種
族滅絕。
選票姓名：
TRUMP, Donald J.
法定姓名：
Donald John Trump 
共和黨
總統
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
	 我拋棄了以前的生活，正因為我再也無法冷眼旁觀，看著職業政客讓這
個國家流血殆盡。在作為總統時，我對抗了有權有勢的特殊利益集團、修正了差勁
的貿易協議、結束了對外戰爭、確保了邊境安全，並挺身而出對抗大型製藥公司和
中國。我們一同堅持美國優先，並將權力歸還給人民。但今天，腐敗的政府卡特爾
正在摧毀我們的國家。我們正在親歷對言論自由的攻擊、猖獗的犯罪、恐怖分子
湧入我們的邊界， 以及經濟衰退。自由和信仰正遭受圍攻。我們「讓美國再次偉大」
的運動是唯一足以恢復安全、 繁榮與和平的力量。我將釋放美國的活力、 繼續減稅、
廢除令人窒息的法規， 並停止浪費性支出。我們已經建立過一次最偉大的美國經濟，
我們並將再次實現。我們將共同恢復美國的繁榮和偉大。2024 選民指南 
 普選普選14美國參議員 
選票姓名：
BILLIONAIRE, Shelby Pikachu
法定姓名：
Shelby  Billionaire 
我們人民黨
美國參議員
hawaiiankingdom.org
presidentbillionaire@gmail.com
(808)  747-7336
	 讓我們一同結束人口販賣和毒品走私問題！「您無法用創造問題的同一
個思維來解決問題。 」 ——Albert  Einstein  (艾伯特 ·愛因斯坦 )	因此，解決方案很簡單 ：
我們必須改變現狀並「成為我們希望在世界上看到改變的那股力量」 ——Mahatma  
Gandhi  (聖雄甘地 )，成為自己生命中的英雄，並激勵後代子孫讓世界變得更美好。
皮卡丘相信自給自足的力量！學習如何建造自己的房子、學習如何脫離電網生活、
學習如何投資加密貨幣並進行交易，每天讓自己都比昨天更好。提供一個資訊給
您，億萬富翁 Shelby  (謝爾比 )	大師是在 Wai'anae的Quonset小屋中看著聖戰士、忍
者龜、彩虹熊、霹靂貓和地球先鋒隊長大的。力量就掌握在您手中！如果您喜歡
超級英雄，那麼請投給皮卡丘吧！ Cheeeehuuuuuu 	臉書	@Shelby  Keiki'okalani  IG @
Legendarybillionaire  Youtube  @SuperShelbyBillionaire 	萬分感謝！
選票姓名：
HIRONO, Mazie K.
法定姓名：
Mazie K. Hirono 
民主黨
美國參議員
mazieforhawaii.com
info@mazieforhawaii.com
(808)  453-0555
	 身為您們的美國參議員，我每天都站在您們的陣線，為降低成本並讓夏
威夷人民和家庭生活得更好而奮鬥。無論是努力擴大我們孩子的教育機會，加強我
們長者的社會安全和醫療保險等重要計畫，還是確認公正客觀的法官，我都致力於
確保我們的社會得到他們應有的支援。在我在參議院任職的期間，我們投資數十億
美元，實現國家基礎設施的現代化，降低長者的醫療保健成本，並採取意義重大的
行動來應對氣候變遷。我競選連任是為了鞏固我們所取得的進展並捍衛我們的民
主。我很榮幸能在參議院代表您們，並懇請您們在這次選舉中投票給我。
選票姓名：
MCDERMOTT, Bob
法定姓名：
Robert C. McDermott 
共和黨
美國參議員
www.votemcdermott.com
Representativemcdermott@gmail.com
(808)  371-4605
	 為了勝利，開展以上帝為中心的競選活動。我以基督教紳士的身份行事，
同時將道德和正派重新納入我們的公共話語中。停止無休止的戰爭。維護父母的權
利，保護學生免受性別意識形態的洗腦，並改善我們的財政狀況，讓勞工家庭有機
會繁榮發展。我是 8名子女的父親， 13名孩子的祖父，美國海軍陸戰隊和沙漠風暴
退伍軍人， 16年擔任夏威夷州眾議員。
選票姓名：
POHLMAN, Emma Jane Avila
法定姓名：
Emma Jane Avila Pohlman 
綠黨
美國參議員
emmajanehawaii@icloud.com
(808)  960-7680
	 我是 Emma  Jane Avila Pohlman  (艾瑪 ·簡·阿維拉 ·波爾曼 )。我是一名大地
律師和調解員。我在南加州大學 	(USC)	學習哲學和政治學，並在洛約拉法學院獲得
法學博士學位。我相信良好的政府和基本的核心原則。我的核心重點是環繞在水的
議題上。所有夏威夷人都必須擁有乾淨的水。這是我們政府的最主要的責任。2024選民指南
 普選普選15美國眾議員 I
選票姓名：
CASE, Ed
法定姓名：
Edward E. Case 
民主黨
美國眾議員（ 1 區）
www.edcase.com
edcase@edcase.com
(808)  546-9509
	 阿羅哈。在這個艱鉅的時期，更多的分裂和不作為並非我們所樂見。我
們需要的是強健穩定的領導風格，為真實的挑戰帶來真正的解決方案。我在 Hilo出
生長大，在整個夏威夷州根基深厚。我在法律和商業界擁有完整的職涯經歷，在夏
威夷州立法院這個偉大的家庭服務了八年。我現在在國會有著十年的資歷。我在眾
議院撥款委員會等重要職位服務，該委員會為聯邦政府提供資金。我曾為我們國
家的重要發展奮力爭取過，也曾為我們的夏威夷幫助解決新冠肺炎、 Red Hill以及
毛伊島發生的危機。我總是相信我們能夠而且必須共同找到更好的前進道路。毋
須大聲嚷嚷。只要誠實地面對挑戰， 勤奮努力並完成工作。這就是解決問題的辦法。
這就是我所做的。這就是我的政見。懇請您繼續支持我， Mahalo  (謝謝 )。
選票姓名：
LARGEY, Patrick C.
法定姓名：
Patrick C. Largey 
共和黨
美國眾議員（ 1 區）
freedom4hawaii.com
patricklargey4congress@gmail.com
(808)  304-4006
	 阿囉哈！我是 Patrick  Largey  (派翠克‧拉吉 )，目前正在競選夏威夷國會
第1選區國會議員。我在麻薩諸塞州 Hudson市出生長大，自從 1985年美國空軍駐
紮在此以來，夏威夷就一直是我的家。我關心這裡的人民、這片土地及在地傳統價
值。我支持並捍衛美國憲法。我支持生命、支持第二修正案、支持美國軍隊和執
法部門。我在美國軍隊和執法部門服役了 23年。我一直對於為人民服務很有熱忱，
這也是我競選公職的原因。我熱愛我們的國家，但我對現任政府的議程和破壞性政
策感到非常不滿。夏威夷人民應該獲得更好的待遇。首先，我們必須先整頓財政部
門，並停止向不太喜歡我們的國家投注數十億美元。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選16美國眾議員 II
選票姓名：
BOND, Steve
法定姓名：
Steven R. Bond 
共和黨
美國眾議員（ 2 區）
votestevebond.com
votestevebond@gmail.com
(808)  756-3638
	 出生於檀香山，住在毛伊島。我的經濟學學位為我提供了觀察和評估我
們所有人都面臨的不斷惡化的財務狀況的背景。我們看到了購買力下降。後果之
一是人們在努力養家糊口時陷入絕望。我以寬容、文明和阿囉哈精神為指引，我
將捍衛我們社區的人民。目前有兩大政黨，為了能真正坐在談判桌上，夏威夷在
華盛頓需要有能在兩黨左右逢源的人。我會成為那個人。我的宣傳活動需要義工。
懇請您的財務捐助。選擇我，讓我為您服務！
選票姓名：
MEYER, Randall Kelly
法定姓名：
Randall Kelly Meyer 
無黨派
美國眾議員（ 2 區）
randallmeyer2000@yahoo.com
(541)  521-4639
	 未遞交任何聲明
選票姓名：
TOKUDA, Jill N.
法定姓名：
Jill N. Tokuda 
民主黨
美國眾議員（ 2 區）
tokudaforhawaii.com
jill@tokudaforhawaii.com
	 從夏威夷島的 Pāpaʻaloa 到毛伊島的 Puʻunēnē，再到可愛島的 Puhi，再到
我的家鄉 Kāneʻohe—— 我們家族五代人都把夏威夷第二國會選區當作自己的家園。
對我而言，能在國會任職是關乎我個人的事情，也是為了確保下一代能在我們熱
愛的這個地方看到自己的未來。這也意味著我們所建造的是人民負擔得起的住房。
投注心力確保能獲得醫療保健和精神健康服務。創造教育機會和良好的就業機會。
降低從食品和公用事業到天然氣和處方藥等的所有一切生活成本。我會將身為母親
才會擁有的那種緊迫感帶到國會當中，藉此完成工作使命，並像家人一樣照顧我們
的人民和社區。我們已經一同取得許多成就，但還有很多工作需要完成。懇請您考
慮支持我並惠賜您神聖的一票。
選票姓名：
TOMAN, Aaron
法定姓名：
Aaron M. Toman 
自由黨
美國眾議員（ 2 區）
www.limitthepower.com
limitthepowerhi@gmail.com
(808)  756-0790
 Aaron Toman  (亞倫 ·托曼 )	在Oahu島長大，長大後大部分時間都在大島
的Hilo納屈渡過。 Aaron (亞倫 )	意識到沒有人會神奇地站出來改變現在的政治格局，
如果他想看到任何改變，他就必須成為改變的力量！ Aaron (亞倫 )	的11點政綱分
為三個部分：修正國會、修正國家並且修正夏威夷；其中最重要的一點是國會任期
限制、美國領土的投票權、修改《瓊斯法案》將夏威夷排除在外的條款，並且取消
司法系統中的合格豁免權。鼓勵您前往 Aaron (亞倫 )	的網站 LimitThePower.com 查閱
他的完整政綱， 2024年將會是美國人拒絕兩黨體制的一年！藉由推舉夏威夷第一位
自由黨國會議員和美國第一位來自第三黨的議院少數黨領袖，讓我們一起寫下新的
歷史！ Aaron Toman  (亞倫 ·托曼 )	是夏威夷的第三個選項，也是您的最佳選擇！
2024選民指南
 普選普選17州參議員（ 3 區）
選票姓名：
KANUHA, Dru Mamo
法定姓名：
Dru Mamo Kanuha 
民主黨
州參議員（ 3 區）
drukanuha.com
info@drukanuha.com
(808)  329-4067
	 我非常感謝自 2018年以來有幸擔任 3區參議員，這個獨特機會使我能夠
有機會滿足我深深紮根的社區的需求。從擁護改善獲得經濟適用住房的機會、加強
州教育體系、促進經濟多元化，到倡導草根措施，我優先著重的要務仍然是在州議
會大廈放大 Kona、Kaʻū和Volcano的心聲。作為參議院多數黨領袖，我有效善用自
己的領導實力來確保夏威夷島的平權。在您的支持下，我期待著繼續為提高所有居
民的生活水準，並保護本州獨特生活方式的政策而努力。我仍然會保守繼續為參議
院3區服務的承諾，交出有利於本州後代子孫的亮眼成果。預先感謝您的信任和持
續不斷的合作關係。
選票姓名：
SULLIVAN, Kurt (Sulli)
法定姓名：
Kurt E. Sullivan 
共和黨
州參議員（ 3 區）
kurt.sullivan@sulburk.com
(808)  300-9809
	 抱持著符合常識的方式接納夏威夷政治的新時代！讓我們為正向變革、
透明度和進步鋪展美好的未來道路。我們可以齊心合作為心愛的島嶼共創更光明的
未來。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選18州參議員（ 6 區）
選票姓名：
MCKELVEY, Angus L.K.
法定姓名：
Angus L.K. McKelvey 
民主黨
州參議員（ 6 區）
mac4senate6@gmail.com
(808)  870-8644
	 阿囉哈！我是 Angus  McKelvey  (安格斯 ‧ 麥凱爾維 )，感謝您和您的家人讓
我有這個榮幸擔任本州參議員。我在這裡出生長大，我的使命是保護夏威夷及其最
重要的資源，也就是我們的人民。我承諾會投注心力在經濟適用住房、中產階級稅
收減免上，以及採取永續的做法來保護環境並幫助家庭繁榮發展。我曾質疑過來自
遙遠地區的權力所做出的決策，並持續要求政府保持透明度和包容性。當我們的
島嶼持續面臨與 Lahaina野火有關的難題時，我與毛伊島的居民站在同一陣線。有
了您的選票，我就能繼續努力協調並解決對我們產生影響的政府決策和官僚機構；
並確保會爭取到復原毛伊島所需的資金。我承諾會為我們的生存、復原和韌性努力
奮戰。只要我們齊心協力就能浴火重生，確保我們的人民擁有更光明、更安全且能
永續經營的未來。
選票姓名：
WALKER, Sheila
法定姓名：
Sheila A. Walker 
共和黨
州參議員（ 6 區）
votesheilawalker.com
votesheilawalker@gmail.com
(808)  344-8644
	 您希望看到毛伊島保有原始的阿囉哈魅力和豐富的夏威夷文化嗎？您還
想擁有便利的住房、充足的公用設施和高薪工作嗎？我們不必妥協；我們可以兩者
兼得！請投給我，我將確保我們不會將這座美麗的島嶼出售給不尊重這塊土地和
居住在此的人民的企業利益集團或外國投資者。我們沒有時間可以浪費了，我保
障會傾聽您們的心聲，這是當務之急的要事！我承諾會定期與社區溝通，對您的
問題抱持同理心， 並利用常識在立法機關尋找解決方案。讓我們一起採取正面行動，
我有這樣的精力、熱情和承諾會令毛伊島保持偉大樣貌，請投給 Sheila  Walker  (希
拉·沃克 )。毛伊島社區必須擺在第一順位！
2024選民指南
 普選普選19州參議員（ 7 區）
選票姓名：
DECOITE, Lynn Pualani
法定姓名：
Lynn P. DeCoite 
民主黨
州參議員（ 7 區）
lynndecoite.org
friendsoflynndecoite@gmail.com
	 阿囉哈，我的名字是 Lynn Pualani  DeCoite  (琳恩‧普阿拉尼‧迪夸 )，懇請
您支持我連任 7區州參議員。我出生在檀香山，在摩洛凱島長大，在家庭農場的成
長為我對農業和環境管理奠定了基礎。我注重透明度、責任與包容性，致力於代表
我們社區的不同聲音和需求。我致力於改善所有選民的生活。身多數黨領袖助理和
能源、 經濟發展和旅遊委員會主席， 我要著手進行的最重要任務包括促進糧食生產、
倡導可負擔居住空間和環境保護。在這個充滿挑戰的時代，讓我們社群的意見能
被聽見是我的使命。您的意見很重要， 我會確保您的意見被聽到。我懇請您的支持，
讓我繼續作為 7區州參議員為您服務。
選票姓名：
MACARAEG, Gabby
法定姓名：
Gabby Junior C. Macaraeg 
共和黨
州參議員（ 7 區）
gabbymacaraeg.maui@gmail.com
(808)  657-3175
	 我出生在太平洋島嶼關島，很小的時候就因為幫助經營家中商店和農場，
從而認識到努力工作的價值。 16歲時，便加入勞工族群，加強良好的職業道德，為
我周圍的人創造了不少價值。 19歲時，便管理了四家商店，這些經驗讓我累積了領
導經驗。 2005年，我加入 USCG，在歐胡島服役了六年。 2013年時，我加入毛伊島
本地勞工族群，第一次來毛伊島出差時，便與這裡保存完好的美景產生了深厚的連
結， 而這裡讓我想起了關島。從那之後， 我曾擔任過安全專員、 安全總監、 安全專家，
現在是毛伊島縣營運經理。毛伊島是我的家園，我擁抱這裡的獨特文化，並承諾會
竭盡所能保護這樣的傳統。無論是保護景觀還是社區，我都因為身在這個天堂的每
一刻而感到幸福。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選20州參議員（ 12 區）
選票姓名：
DABBS, Shotaro
法定姓名：
Shotaro L. Dabbs 
共和黨
州參議員（ 12 區）
shotarodabbs.com
shotarodabbs2024@gmail.com
(808)  548-1362
	 阿囉哈，我是 Shotaro  Dabbs  (正太郎‧達布斯 )。我在 Waikiki出生長大，
與許多人一樣有個困難重重的童年，遇到我父親進入監獄，還有面臨無家可歸的
問題。我是由一位勤奮的單親母親撫養長大的，她必須長時間工作才能維持我們
的生計。這些經驗加深了我實現對社區承諾的決心。我正在競選 12區的州參議員。
我優先著手的要務涵蓋了解決遊民問題、加強公共安全和改善教育。我們可以一起
透過擴展心理健康服務、加強公共安全措施，以及賦予教師更大的自主權來促進個
人化學習，為夏威夷建立更光明的未來。我相信相互配合的解決方案和社區參與可
以有效應對我們所面臨的挑戰。謝謝您的支持。
選票姓名：
MORIWAKI, Sharon Y.
法定姓名：
Sharon Y. Moriwaki 
民主黨
州參議員（ 12 區）
sharonmoriwaki.com
sharonymoriwaki@gmail.com
(808)  428-1348
	 身為民主黨參議員，我很榮幸能夠在 Kakaako、Ala Moana、Moiliili、McCully
和Waikiki為您們服務。我曾擔任 Waihee州長內閣中的勞工部副部長暨人事主任；
擔任司法部門法院管理人員；並在夏威夷大學擔任助理副總裁一職。我們美麗的
社區正面臨著嚴重的問題 ——遊民、犯罪和噪音、海平面上升、有限綠地、老幼族
群需要幫助。截至目前為止，我們已經解決噪音問題；將遊民轉移到更好的地方；
引入「安全又可靠」的犯罪控制策略；讓 Kakaako海岸線上維持無豪華高層建築的
狀態。我們依然需要全方位解決方案，並透過全州遊民辦公室來結束遊民現象；建
造經濟適用住房；對於習慣性暴力犯罪者嚴格執行法律；抑制過度噪音；為長者的
就地護理和孩子的職業生涯提供資金，以及進行海平面上升規劃。我來到此地是為
您服務的。我們將共建一個更美好的社會和國家。請「投給 Sharon」。
2024選民指南
 普選普選21州參議員（ 16 區）
選票姓名：
BEEKMAN, Pat
法定姓名：
Patricia Y. Beekman 
共和黨
州參議員（ 16 區）
kaaina@mac.com
(808)  221-9695
	 夏威夷值得擁有比現在更好的一切。我在夏威夷出生長大，這裡是我和
我整個家族的家園。我這生見證過許多令人驚訝不已的巨大變化但不幸的是，其中
許多變化是讓情況變得更糟。作為一位在內陸生活過 30年、日本待了 13年、和加
拿大生活 1年的人，我可以理解其他地方和其他人的觀點。我父親在我很小的時候
就向我介紹過美國憲法，其中對於個人和少數族群權利保護的相關條款讓我印象
非常深刻。這點完全符合我年輕時的理念。這些權利比以往任何時候都更加危險 	
(CBDC、近期的強制注射、強制戴口罩等等 )。我將為人民的自由而戰，即使我是立
法機關中唯一一位針對特定議題這麼做的人。有關更多資訊，請參閱我即將上線的
網站。
選票姓名：
ELEFANTE, Brandon
法定姓名：
Brandon J.C. Elefante 
民主黨
州參議員（ 16 區）
www.brandonelefante.com
info@brandonelefante.com
	 阿囉哈！我是 Brandon  Elefante  (布蘭登 ·艾萊芬特 )，是現任夏威夷州議
院16區	(Aiea、珍珠城和 Hālawa)	的參議員。能在過去十年內擔任公職是我畢生的榮
幸。在過去的一年裡，我與州立法機構的同事攜手努力解決改善經濟適用住房的取
得、支持重要基礎設施專案，甚至還倡導維護更乾淨的環境等重要議題。我們一
起達成許多重要的里程碑， 但我們還有很多工作要做。在我多年的公共服務生涯中，
深刻了解到傾聽大家內心的擔憂、跨黨派合作，以及努力不懈尋找符合常識的解決
方案來應對最緊迫挑戰等這些行動的重要性。我相信我的親身經驗、奉獻精神和對
社區的熱情，使我成為繼續在州參議院代表您們權益發聲的最佳選擇。謝謝。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選22州參議員（ 18 區）
選票姓名：
KIDANI, Michelle N.
法定姓名：
Michelle N. Kidani 
民主黨
州參議員（ 18 區）
mnkidani.com
mnkidani@gmail.com
(808)  754-4442
	 阿囉哈，我是 Michelle  Kidani  (米雪兒 ‧ 凱達妮 )	參議員，目前正在競選連
任夏威夷州參議員。非常感謝您讓我能從 2009年起擔任您的參議員。我目前擔任
夏威夷州參議院副議長暨教育委員會主席。如果您允許的話，我願意再為我們選區
服務一個任期，持續支援我們的學區總監和教育部，進而保障我們的孩子能獲得夏
威夷可提供最優質的教育。
選票姓名：
SVRCINA, Emil
法定姓名：
Emil  Svrcina 
共和黨
州參議員（ 18 區）
EmilClearChoice.com
emilsvrcina@gmail.com
(808)  256-6473
 36年前，我和妻子一起逃離共產主義社會。我們受過良好的教育 	(核物
理和工程碩士 )，來到美國不是為了貪圖施捨救濟，而是為了我們的家庭和子孫後
代的未來而努力工作。如今我們知道這是有可能的。然而，我們現任政府中的掌
權人士正走在一條通往生命泯滅的道路上。每個孩子的壽命都會比他們的父母還
要短。我們需要透過基層的勞工運動來扭轉這個趨勢。糧食生產、能源和可負擔
住屋都有真正的解決方案 	(非「綠色協議」騙局 )。任何一個勞工家庭都不應陷入
經濟困境或被迫離開這個美麗的州。他們的權益會再次受到重視。我身為與專家
共同聯手尋找解決方案的科學家，有了您們的團結支持，我們將能阻止這些貪婪
的特殊企業利益腐蝕我們的政客、 侵損選舉制度， 並毀掉夏威夷人民。我將把常識、
正義以及與人為善的精神帶回談判桌上。謝謝。
2024選民指南
 普選普選23州參議員（ 22 區）
選票姓名：
DECORTE, Samantha
法定姓名：
Samantha M. DeCorte 
共和黨
州參議員（ 22 區）
www.SamanthaDecorte.com
samantha@samanthadecorte.com
(808)  306-9604
	 阿囉哈，我是 Samantha  DeCorte  (莎曼沙‧迪寇特 )。我是夏威夷原住民，
深受我的信仰和文化的影響。我和我的丈夫最近才剛慶祝完我們的結婚 27週年紀
念日，我們一起養育了 3位年輕有為的男人。我於 2022年競選夏威夷州 22區參議
員，但以 40票之差落敗。這是 2022年大選中選票差距最接近的競選。從那時起，
我便在夏威夷州立法機構的兩個分支機構工作，包括眾議院和目前的參議院，並
從中獲得寶貴的政策經驗和培養了重要的人際關係。因此，我已經做好充分準備
在自任期第一天起好好承擔起這個角色的職責。我已成為我們選區居民委員會的
委員，並受其他委員會委員揀選為該會主席。請造訪我的網站，瞭解更多資訊：
www.SamanthaDeCorte.com 。懇請您惠賜一票。
選票姓名：
GATES, Cedric Asuega
法定姓名：
Cedric S. Gates 
民主黨
州參議員（ 22 區）
CEDRICFORHAWAII.COM
CEDRIC4HAWAII@GMAIL.COM
(808)  457-6385
	 阿囉哈！我是 Cedric  Asuega  Gates (塞德里克‧阿蘇加‧蓋茲 )，是終身居
住在 96792社區的居民。我是 Kamaile小學、 Wai'anae中學、	Wai'anae高中、檀香山青
年建設和 Leeward社區學院 ——Wai'anae  Moku的自豪校友。 我目前擔任 45區州眾議員，
選區範圍包括 Mākua、Mākaha和Wai'anae。我曾擔任 Wai'anae海岸鄰里委員會主席，
並曾擔任 Wai'anae海岸綜合健康中心委員會成員， 為我們的社區服務。自當選以來，
我已經針對道路、學校、基礎設施、州立公園、防火、醫療保健、遊民等籌集了超
過2.5億美元的資金。每年作為立法者的我都能通過可提升 96792生活方式的法案，
我預計在成為您下一任參議員時，也繼續做同樣的事情。懇請您和您的家人能投票
支持我。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選24州參議員（ 23 區）
選票姓名：
AWA, Brenton
法定姓名：
Brenton P. Awa 
共和黨
州參議員（ 23 區）
friendsofbrentonawa@gmail.com
(808)  454-3017
	 未遞交任何聲明
選票姓名：
SHAFER, Ben
法定姓名：
Benjamin D. Shafer 
民主黨
州參議員（ 23 區）
bdshafer@gmail.com
(808)  388-5777
 Ben Shafer  (班‧謝弗 )	是來自 Kahana山谷的第四代夏威夷人。作為一名
社區權益長期倡導者，他是反對 Turtle Bay度假村擴建的其中一位領袖。 Ben (班) 
為國際戲劇和舞台員工聯盟以及電影 I. A .T. S.E .第665分會工作，他並任職於 Oʻahu喪
葬委員會。 Ben (班)	相信誠信很重要，並且團結才能邁向成功。 Ben (班)	對他人
的同情心和尊重指引著他的工作方式。我們龐大且多元化的選區需要一位能夠有效
代表所有社區心聲的活躍領袖。 Ben (班)	將能勝任本選區需要且應得的適任參議
員。 高昂的生活成本讓生活變得越來越困難。 政府需要更強勁的問責制和減少浪費。
我們必須保護自己的生活品質、避免過度開發、保護農田、增加當地糧食產量、維
護道路、照顧長者和孩子。阿囉哈、團結、正確。
2024選民指南
 普選普選25州眾議員（ 3 區）
選票姓名：
MARTIN, Austin D. (Shiloh)
法定姓名：
Austin D. Martin 
自由黨
州眾議員（ 3 區）
libertarianhawaii.com
rapidreason@gmail.com
(940)  368-0364
	 「讓我們做得更好！」廢除瓊斯法案。對房子進行消毒。透過自由實現永
續繁榮。我代表 Big Island的有機家園社區。我和您有共同的夢想，但我也曾在道
路上遇到過同樣的坑洞。您可能看過我在街上演奏音樂、為有需要的人服務，並
聆聽來自各行各業的人們的聲音。我相信我們想要的是一樣的東西 ： 繁榮、更安全、
更自由的社區，我們的自由不受政府干預。我們將共同向失敗的兩黨體系發出明確
的訊息： 「再做得更好。 」如果您選我到州議會任職，我會為您努力工作。我會仔細
閱讀每項法案。我在議會程序、立法審查和法律理論方面的經驗將確保我能夠比任
何其他候選人更好地利用這個職位；我不會讓您失望的。讓我們做得更好。
選票姓名：
TODD, Christopher L.T.
法定姓名：
Christopher L.T. Todd 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 3 區）
www.christoshirotodd.org
christmastodd@gmail.com
(808)  825-8636
	 阿囉哈，東夏威夷！我優先執行的要務一直持續讓當地居民可以更容易
維持收支平衡。我們最近朝著正確的方向採取一些措施， 我將盡全力繼續這一動能，
為年輕家庭和長者等人提供更公平的稅法和更多機會。除了盡全力降低生活成本和
創造更有利的經濟條件外，我還將透過進一步擴大 Hilo醫療中心和 Puna的新設施，
繼續推動東夏威夷的醫療保健轉型。感謝您考慮支持，並由衷感謝您惠票一票！
選票姓名：
WILSON, Kanoa
法定姓名：
Kanoa Hauoli Wilson 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 3 區）
kanoaw@gmail.com
(808)  365-3033
	 阿囉哈，我， Kanoa  Hauoli  Wilson  (卡諾亞 ·豪利 ·威爾遜 )	正在作為共和
黨候選人競選 3區的州眾議員。請在 3區的眾議員選舉上投給 Kanoa  Wilson  (卡諾
亞·威爾遜 ) (808)-365-3033  kanoaw@gmail.com ，我想把注意力轉向手頭上的那些似乎
被忽視的問題，同時把注意力從宣布沙卡手勢為夏威夷的官方手勢或類似的行為等
沒有意義的事情上抽離。在夏威夷縣定居之前，我曾是一名商船隊員，我的職涯在
一次受傷結束後，從那時起，我創辦了一家小企業，幫助有需要的人，並嘗試透過
免費社區活動為那些不幸的人舉辦活動。感謝您的考慮
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選26州眾議員（ 4 區）
選票姓名：
HO, Keikilani
法定姓名：
Keikilani G.P . Ho 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 4 區）
keikilanikealoha@gmail.com
(808)  437-0670
	 在夏威夷出生長大， 3名子女的母親，天生富有同情心和同理心。我具
有創新精神，並採用符合常識的方法來尋找解決方案。從我還是個孩子的時候起，
我就與各種非營利組織一起服務，並領導了許多以社區為導向的活動，幫助為我
們的人民帶來希望和解決方案。作為美麗的 4區的居民，我希望繼續保持 4區的美
麗，並且不僅是為其發聲，更是成為這個社區需要的一個良好的傾聽者。我們需
要為我們的人民提供援助的法律。 而非趕走他們的法律。 我們需要會傾聽的立法者。
立法機關通過的許多法律並未對我們人民的福祉產生幫助，而且不幸的是，這其中
的一些法律得到了我們投票推舉的人的支持。我是一個言出必行的女人，我們的選
區的生活值得交付給我。我是希望。
選票姓名：
ILAGAN, Greggor
法定姓名：
Greggor Johanson P . Ilagan 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 4 區）
voteilagan.com
greggorilagan@gmail.com
(808)  557-5819
	 未遞交任何聲明
2024選民指南
 普選普選27州眾議員（ 5 區）
選票姓名：
FOGEL, Frederick F.
法定姓名：
Frederick F. Fogel 
自由黨
州眾議員（ 5 區）
www.ffogel.net
fogelforfreedom@gmail.com
(808)  265-1659
	 現在是播下建設性政治改革種子的時候了。這需要跳出政黨框架進行思
考。雖然我的觀點與自由黨最為接近 	(更自由，更少政府介入 )，但我基本上是獨
立的。推動改善工作的必須透過各項議題，而並非由政黨主導。下列是我的目標
簡短摘要。 (造訪 www.ffogel.net 以深入了解。 )稅務 ——將州所得稅轉換為固定百分
比，取消食品和藥品的銷售稅。環境 ——加大力度攔截和消除入侵物種，並提供全
方位服務的資源回收站 	(垃圾場 )。選舉 ——實施線上投票。政治 ——為政治人物
設定任期限制，並將立法會期從五個月延長至十個月，但不增加政治人物的薪資。
教育 ——解散州立學校委員會， 轉而建立獨立的島嶼委員會和教育券制度。監獄 ——
著重於更生。政府 ——將權力下放到縣級。法律 ——推動各縣賭博合法化。
選票姓名：
KAPELA, Jeanne
法定姓名：
Jeanne M. Kapela 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 5 區）
www.jeannekapela.com
jeanne@jeannekapela.com
(808)  854-1148
	 身為眾議院 5區的現任眾議員，我堅定不移地支持我們州經濟上最弱勢
的居民和勞工家庭。我致力於爭取帶薪家庭假、帶薪病假、稅收公平和真正平價
住宅等重要政策。我還致力於增加綠色就業機會，保護我們寶貴的 'āina (土地 )	免
於掠奪性開發，加強緊急備災工作，並增強我們島嶼家園的氣候適應能力。最後，
我將始終積極倡導婦女權利、夏威夷原住民計畫、高品質醫療保健以及 LGBTQ+鄉
親們的公民自由。在面臨巨大的挑戰下，我知道我們可以共同努力，為我們的島嶼
家園創造一個更繁榮和永續的未來。我致力於以阿囉哈為您們的 'ohana  (家庭 )	和
我們的社區提供領導力。
選票姓名：
OYAMA, Ashley
法定姓名：
Ashley K.P. Oyama 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 5 區）
www.ashleyoyama.com
ashley@ashleyoyama.com
(808)  437-0755
	 我從四歲起就住在 5區，並很幸運能在這裡撫養我的孩子。作為家長和
西夏威夷 2020年度最佳教師，我體會到教育的多個面向都需要進行變革。我將致
力於為學校系統內的所有學生和家庭提供問責制、透明度和公平性。我支持家長權
利，並相信學生和家庭應該參與影響他們的教育決策。我設想社區家庭在做出有關
教育、糧食永續性以及社區和土地保護的決定時會受到尊重和支持。我認為，妥善
維護公共道路和基礎設施是最重要的任務。我們需要照顧那些為了保住夏威夷作為
自己家園而奮鬥的家庭。我們需要現在就投資我們的員工，以確保有光明的未來。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選28州眾議員（ 6 區）
選票姓名：
KAHALOA, Kirstin
法定姓名：
Kirstin A.K. Kahaloa 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 6 區）
kahaloaforkona.com
vote@kahaloaforkona.com
(808)  430-5821
	 我很榮幸能夠擔任 Kona州眾議員，為 Kailua到Hōnaunau 服務。在我的第
一個任期內，我通過法案來保護科納咖啡和堅果、加強夏威夷對入侵物種的防禦，
並促進以社區為基礎的創新和經濟發展。我還為當地學校和 Kona社區醫院的長期
缺乏的維護工程籌集了資金。我堅定地投注在為整個夏威夷島努力上，因為我的家
族根源來自 Hilo、Keaukaha、ʻOpihikao、Kaʻū和Waipiʻo。身為一位夏威夷原住民和母
親，我能在立法機構的工作對我來說意義深遠，因為夏威夷是我的家。我已經證明
了我將每天為所有的家庭努力工作，以便下一代在夏威夷能有一個能繼續生活和稱
為家園的地方。感謝您信任我，讓我譨繼續在立法機關所做的工作。
選票姓名：
MADISON, Sylvie M.
法定姓名：
Sylvie M. Madison 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 6 區）
www.letsgobigisland.com
vote@letsgobigisland.com
(808)  430-5563
	 從紅黨到藍黨，再來到中間選民，我們都是因身為夏威夷人所面臨的挑
戰而團結在一起。儘管我們之間存在著分歧意見，但現在是把夏威夷人民放在第
一順位的時候了。我競選公職是為了將人民的心聲帶到首都。我們必須立即採取
行動，針對住房、遊民、教育以及政府過度擴張和過度支出等議題做出應對措施。   
我們同時必須嚴格打擊犯罪，並擁有更多掌管我們土地的權利。我極力支持個人權
利、捕魚、狩獵、農業以及保護自己、家人和財產的自由。我是夏威夷小型企業主，
取得刑事司法理學學士學位，並繼續在 Kapi'olani 社區大學學習。我曾是夏威夷 Big 
Game釣魚俱樂部委員會成員，並曾任職於夏威夷小型企業發展中心。  
2024選民指南
 普選普選29州眾議員（ 7 區）
選票姓名：
DALHOUSE, Timothy A. (Tim)
法定姓名：
Timothy Alan Dalhouse 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 7 區）
timdalhouse.com
vote4tim@timdalhouse.com
(808)  772-3996
	 阿羅哈！身為美國海軍陸戰隊退伍軍人以及一位為我們當地創造了數十
個就業機會並重振了 Kona一個被忽視的購物廣場的企業家，我致力於全心全意為
夏威夷 7區服務。我擔任 Kailua村商業改善區總監和教會執事的義工領導經驗反映
了我對社區和家庭價值觀的承諾。在 2022年美國參議院共和黨的初選中，我對能
贏得了 Big Island的多數票感到自豪，這代表我的經濟增長、降低生活成本，以及
為我們群島上的孩子創造一個永續未來的經濟適用房的願景得到了廣泛支持。我的
計畫還包括改善基礎設施和確保對政府支出進行問責。如獲當選，我承諾透過電子
郵件、電話和公共論壇定期進行公開透明的溝通，確保州立法機構能夠聽到每位居
民的聲音，並熱情地為他們喉舌。萬分感謝您投票支持我！
選票姓名：
LOWEN, Nicole
法定姓名：
Nicole E. Lowen 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 7 區）
nicolelowen.com
nicole@nicolelowen.com
(808)  937-8196
 Nicole  Lowen  (妮可 ‧ 洛文 )	自2012年以來一直在州議會代表西夏威夷，並
為她的選區辛勤地工作。多年來， Nicole為家園爭取到改善學校、醫院、建造 Kona
法院和 HCC Palamanui 校區的資金。身為前教師， Nicole一直致力於為教師爭取更高
的薪資，並為 keiki (孩子們 )	爭取更好的學校，且致力於提供更平價的住宅，和解
決夏威夷的高生活成本問題。 Nicole一直努力支持勞工家庭、當地農民和企業，並
且，身為能源與環境保護委員會主席， Nicole將考慮保護夏威夷的自然資源、再生
能源，和應對氣候危機置於首要任務。 Nicole努力時刻對她的選民做出回應並隨時
待命， 並定期展開溝通。如果再次當選， 她將繼續以誠信、 經驗和辛勤工作提供服務。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
30州眾議員（ 8 區）
選票姓名：
PERREIRA, Monique CobbAdams
法定姓名：
Monique C.A.K. Perreira 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 8 區）
cobbadamsmo@gmail.com
(808)  938-3370
	 阿囉哈， 我是 Monique  Cobb-Adams  Perreira  (莫妮卡‧科布 -亞當斯‧派萊拉 )，
是一位自豪的夏威夷人、美國海軍退伍軍人和敬業的小型企業主。我也很感恩能夠
擁有妻子、母親和祖母的身分。生長在夏威夷的經歷讓我對這個我稱為家的地方產
生了濃厚的熱愛。我的使命清楚明確， 為的就是確保夏威夷居民不僅能夠好好生存，
而且後代均能欣欣向榮。身為您的候選人，我認為我們需要限制政府對我們生活和
企業的影響。結束我們政府的付費遊戲， 讓我們選舉任命的官員會對自身職責負責，
並終結貪腐情形。我會帶著常識、誠實和承諾找出真正的解決方案來解決許多困擾
著夏威夷的失敗政策。讓我們齊心努力為我們的土地、孩子和熱愛的夏威夷，帶來
真正的改變並保障更光明的未來。
選票姓名：
TARNAS, David A.
法定姓名：
David A. Tarnas 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 8 區）
www.votetarnas.com
votetarnas@gmail.com
(808)  987-5810
	 阿囉哈。我是 David Tarnas  (大衛‧塔納斯 )，我目前正在競選連任眾議
院8區-南北科哈拉的州眾議員。我在這區生活大約 38年了，我和我的妻子在
Waimea養育兩個孩子。我目前擔任眾議院司法和夏威夷事務委員會主席，已任職
五屆任期。我承諾會解決我們選區所面臨的重大議題，包括支持經濟適用住房、公
共教育、公共安全和環境保護，以及為選區中的公共高速公路、港口、學校、圖書
館、醫院和其他的州級設施籌集資金。我將繼續努力幫助我們的家庭、兒童、長者，
以及農業、旅遊、天文學、醫療保健和知識型企業等對我們的經濟有益的企業。若
需瞭解詳情，請造訪 www.votetarnas.com 。謝謝！
2024選民指南
 普選普選31州眾議員（ 11 區）
選票姓名：
ACAIN, Aileen R. (Lily)
法定姓名：
Aileen R. Acain 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 11 區）
www.votelilyacain.com
aileenlilyacain@gmail.com
(808)  264-0622
	 我的努力和使命是為了幫助毛伊島創造經濟機會，就如同我在過去 21年
所做的那樣，並努力在 Lahaina火災後為毛伊島提供希望。藉由持續積極地解決住
房問題，並且修復毛伊島南部緊急基礎設施的電力和道路通道，還有正如我過去曾
做的一樣，為電影業的創意藝術和技術領域幫助創造更高薪的就業機會。齊心協力
為我們的社區重建更美好的未來。幫助維持社區的團結凝聚力，同時關注小型企
業，並維護我們的文化傳統，最重要的是，保護我們的孩子遠離性人口販運的威脅，
並保護老年人免受網路詐騙和掠奪者的侵害。我期待能為毛伊努伊島和夏威夷州服
務。聯絡方式： aileenlilyacain@gmail.com  www.voteaileenlilyacain.com
選票姓名：
AMATO, Terez (T.Amato)
法定姓名：
Terez M.A. Lindsey 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 11 區）
www.TAmato.org
Admin@TerezAmato.org
(808)  268-2622
	 阿囉哈，各位鄰居，我在此為您服務！能夠代表您是我畢生何等的榮耀。
您值得擁有一個「 #為人民工作」 ，而非為企業工作或擔任遊說者的眾議員！我拒
絕接受他們的獻金。我是「 #非賣品」 。嘴上說說根本毫無價值可言。我的成果：
5,300萬美元用於 Kihei經濟適用住房、 學校、 洪水 /火災減緩、 200名新 Kihei勞動力、
學前班和教師「 #經濟適用住房」單位，要求為遊民和火災受害者額外提供 800個
單位，同時遵守環境標準。我支持長者、 #工會和飯店員工、罷工護士、教師加薪、
#學校安全、 #同性戀權利、 #生活薪資、 #當地農夫、減少學生債務、擴大醫療保
健、 #降低稅率和 	CNA/護士教育。 #捍衛選擇權：民主、自由和「 #生育權」都反
映在選票上：作為《法案 2》的主要推動者：當民主受到攻擊，而且醫師和墮胎遭
受激進反對者定義為犯罪行為時，我絕不會袖手旁觀。 #合法化。保護長者、孩子、
小型企業、 殘疾人士、 我們的環境和「 #人權」都是我的職責。我會為您挺身而出！
感謝您投給 #TAmato
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
32州眾議員（ 12 區）
選票姓名：
JOHNSON, Dan
法定姓名：
Daniel B. Johnson 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 12 區）
Danjohnson4hawaii@gmail.com
(808)  250-0020
	 我競選公職是因為我喜歡毛伊島，還有讓這個島嶼不同於世界其他地方
(包括夏威夷的其他地方 )	的所有一切。我是一名丈夫，也是兩個孩子的父親，在
毛伊島出生長大，我的家族在這裡已經有四代的歷史了。我從夏威夷大學 Manoa分
校畢業並獲得金融學位後，已經在過去十年中在專案管理領域取得輝煌的成功表
現。透過我的經驗，我逐漸瞭解我們州生活成本會異常高的許多核心原因。當本地
家庭無法再住在這裡並被迫離開時，我感到很難過。我想做的是優先透過州稅收
調整來降低生活成本，鼓勵本地人購買房產，同時維護我們的價值觀、自由、土地、
資源並重建我們的社會。我懇請您將神聖的一票投給我， 讓我代表您盡心提供服務。
選票姓名：
RYAN, Rita M.
法定姓名：
Rita M. Ryan 
綠黨
州眾議員（ 12 區）
ritaryan@buzbuz.biz
(808)  250-5030
	 我們正處於迅速且前所未有的變革之中，這些變革將永遠重塑我們的生
活。氣候變遷的殘酷性將持續存在，它將帶來更強烈的狂風暴雨、使珊瑚礁消失，
並使海平面上升。人工智慧將為我們的生存帶來挑戰和機會。毛伊島內陸地區在州
議會迫切需要一位在氣候變遷、人工智慧和全民社會正義方面擁有專業知識的領導
人。我們必須培養韌性才對付這些挑戰，並需要一位能夠理解未來並幫助我們準備
的領袖。 Rita Ryan (麗塔 ·瑞安 )	積極參與毛伊島縣氣候行動諮詢委員會、夏威夷群
島土地信託毛伊島理事會、氣候現實專案夏威夷分會前負責人和 350Hawaii.org 毛伊
島協調員等毛伊島的眾多義工工作。她有效地帶頭宣布毛伊島進入氣候緊急狀態，
鄰近島嶼和本州也在隨後加入其中。請投給 Rita Ryan (麗塔 ·瑞安 )！
選票姓名：
YAMASHITA, Kyle T.
法定姓名：
Kyle T. Yamashita 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 12 區）
kyle.yamashita@gmail.com
(808)  870-5874
	 未遞交任何聲明
2024選民指南
 普選普選33州眾議員（ 13 區）
選票姓名：
ADAM, Scott
法定姓名：
Scott L. Adam 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 13 區）
ScottAdam@icloud.com
(802)  558-3192
	 作為 13區議會眾議員的保守派 /有常識的候選人，我希望看到夏威夷做
得更好。支持對人民最有利的立法必須是我們要著手進行的最重要任務。如今的重
點必須是強化經濟；保護我們的家庭，包括父母對其子女的權利；醫療自由；在我
們偉大的國家和憲政共和國內維護我們的憲法權利，例如我們的第一修正案和第二
修正案。如果上帝賦予我們的自由不能在政府事務中持續穩固，我們就有可能失去
這些自由並讓位給其他形式的政府。我們的制度是建立在我們人民是社會的管理機
構和權威的原則之上。最近我們已經走上了歧途，但我可以透過發起和投票將權力
交還給人民的立法來幫助恢復我們的憲政共和國。
選票姓名：
POEPOE, Mahina
法定姓名：
Mahinamalamalama M. Poepoe 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 13 區）
Votemahina.com
mahinapoepoe13@gmail.com
(808)  658-6010
	 阿羅哈！我是 Mahina  Poepoe  (瑪希娜‧波普 )，正在競選連任州眾議院。
過去兩年擔任你們的眾議員是我銘記的榮幸和責任。我一直努力兌現競選承諾，我
的投票記錄清楚地反映了我對我們人民和 'āina (土地 )	的承諾。我曾參與提出保護
文化和自然資源、支援小型企業和當地食品系統、擴大醫療保健承保範圍、在公
立學校提供免費餐食、 改善公共教育、 備災和政府透明度和問責制等六百多項措施。
我會繼續注重確保我們居民的生活品質和環境健康成為決策上要優先進行的事項。
我懇請您在即將到來的選舉中繼續支持並投票給我。 Ola i ka wai, Mahina  (水和月亮
是生命之泉 )
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
34州眾議員（ 14 區）
選票姓名：
ARMSTRONG, Kelly J.
法定姓名：
Kelly J. Armstrong 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 14 區）
armstrongcorporation@gmail.com
(760)  333-2332
	 夏威夷州，特別是毛伊島西區需要一個代表「人民」並為人民說話的人。
毛伊島人民已經很久沒有受到重視了。夏威夷州的貪腐現象空前嚴重。遊民人數達
到歷史最高水準。吸毒人數達到歷史最高水準。生活成本處於歷史最高水準。教育
程度處於歷史最低水準。跨性別男性正在參加高中女子運動比賽。民主黨 60多年
來一直統治夏威夷州，並將其推入糞坑。夏威夷州最近被全國公認為美國「負擔能
力最差」的州。讓我為您代言，讓這個州成為應有的天堂。我將為您們而戰。
選票姓名：
COCHRAN, Elle
法定姓名：
Eleanora K. Cochran 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 14 區）
voteellecochran.com
cochranelle00@gmail.com
(808)  281-7709
	 各位眾議院 14區的選民們，阿囉哈。我非常榮幸地能在過去的兩年裡擔
任貴州議會眾議員。我衷心感謝您過去的支持，並期待您未來繼續支持。在過去
的兩年裡，我作為州眾議員累積不少知識，再加上我過去八年的縣議會經驗，這
些經歷都將證明我能夠做出亮眼表現，可以滿足我們社區的需求！當我繼續生活
在畢生居住的 Lahaina時，我的內心和靈魂因那些無法想像的巨大損失而深受傷害。
當在我們需要全員努力完成重建的這個時刻。請放心，眾議院 14區的全體將受到
從頭到尾無微不至的照顧。請相信我的辦公室將一如既往地保持開放態度、積極做
出回應並保持執政透明度！
2024選民指南
 普選普選35州眾議員（ 15 區）
選票姓名：
MORANZ, David A.
法定姓名：
David Anthony Moranz 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 15 區）
kilakahi@gmail.com
(808)  651-8882
 David Moranz  (大衛 ·莫蘭茲 ) 我目前的職務是與家族和家族企業合作。我
的終極目標是如何能幫助社區和夏威夷州。 成就 海上船長、 太平洋飛彈靶場消防員、
重型設備作業員、工廠作業員、設備故障排除人員和維修人員，我有使事情順利進
行的實務經驗。
選票姓名：
NAKAMURA, Nadine K.
法定姓名：
Nadine K. Nakamura 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 15 區）
NadineNakamura.com
nknplan@hawaii.rr.com
(808)  635-1507
 我很榮幸能夠擔任 15區的州眾議員。我從 14年前開始對公共服務產生興
趣，當時是我第一次競選可愛島縣議會議員。我當時的目標是「為更好的可愛島
而努力」 。我在縣議會任職三年，擔任董事總經理三年，並在州議會任職八年。在
過去的兩年裡，我一直是議會多數黨的領袖。透過打造可負擔的居住空間、愛護
我們的土地和水域、普及學前教育、實現經濟多元化以及扶持最需要幫助的家庭，
我們可以創造繁榮並改善我們的生活品質。懇請您賜票給我，以便我能夠繼續進行
未來的重要工作：重新開發卡帕公共住房、實施馬赫羅納總體計畫以提供更多可負
擔的居住空間和公共服務、 透過建設交通樞紐來疏通遊客， 並支持當地種植的食品。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
36州眾議員（ 16 區）
選票姓名：
EVSLIN, Luke A.
法定姓名：
Luke A. Evslin 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 16 區）
www.lukeevslin.com
luke@lukeevslin.com
(808)  635-6623
	 我一生都住在可愛島，並曾有幸在可愛島縣議會任職四年，並在過去兩
年擔任夏威夷州議會眾議員。我的使命很簡單：讓大家住得起房，並提高我們的生
活品質。 			我們需要為當地家庭提供住宅，而不僅僅是推動豪宅開發案。我們可以
簡化法規、鼓勵現有城鎮及其周邊區域的住宅開發案、加強步行基礎設施以及支持
多代同堂的方案，藉此建立充滿活力的永續性社區。這將降低住房成本、提高家庭
凝聚力、減少碳排放並減少不平等。它還將保護我們的農業用地並紓緩交通擁堵問
題。		我們可以一同確保子孫後代有能力住在這裡、我們的環境得到保護，以及我
們的社區蓬勃發展。我會致力於實現這個願景，若能得到您的支持是我的榮幸。
選票姓名：
YODER, Steve
法定姓名：
Steven Jay Yoder 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 16 區）
Kauaipatriot@gmail.com
(808)  855-5503
	 未遞交任何聲明
2024選民指南
 普選普選37州眾議員（ 17 區）
選票姓名：
JAUCH, Michael H.
法定姓名：
Michael  Jauch 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 17 區）
Michael@michaeljauch.com
(808)  346-6002
	 未遞交任何聲明
選票姓名：
MORIKAWA, Daynette (Dee)
法定姓名：
Daynette S.P. Morikawa 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 17 區）
daynette.morikawa@gmail.com
(808)  651-8855
	 我有 14年的州眾議員經驗。在競選公職之前，我在縣政府工作了 36年。
我的整個成年生活都致力於公共服務。 14年來，每一場的立法會議我都有參加。作
為一名資深眾議員，我將繼續致力於促進完善的立法，並盡最大努力解決我們選區
的需求和顧慮的事務。成為眾議院多數黨領袖代表同事對我有信心，相信我具備履
行該職位職責的能力，而所有經驗和資歷都讓我能夠更妥貼地為公眾服務。回顧過
去的成果並展望未來，我心裡充滿了滿足感和成就感。非常感謝選民對我服務的信
任，並願意讓我持續擔任您們的眾議員。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
38州眾議員（ 20 區）
選票姓名：
NAKADA GRANDINETTI, Tina
法定姓名：
Tina  Grandinetti 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 20 區）
www.tinaforhawaii.com
friendsoftinagrandinetti@gmail.com
(808)  376-5200
 Tina Nakada  Grandinetti  (蒂娜 ·中田 ·格蘭迪內蒂 ) 博士在 Oahu出生長大，
她為了打造一個讓本地家庭能夠負擔得起在夏威夷的生活，並培養孩子來照顧寶貴
土地和水域的未來，因此加入競選行列。她深入探究夏威夷住房和遊民危機，作
為國家政策研究所博士後研究員的她在推動滿足勞工家庭需求的公平住房政策方
面帶來自身寶貴的經驗。此前，她掌管眾議員 Perruso  (普魯梭 ) 辦事處，與權益倡
導者密切合作，起草並推動住房、糧食系統、教育和稅收公平的相關政策。 Tina (蒂
娜) 在與社區組織教育青少年、防止當地家庭流離失所、關閉紅山，並且在為後代
子孫保護土地層面也有良好的成績。她堅信良好的治理可以讓所有人齊心協力，為
共同利益一起努力奮戰。
選票姓名：
SOLOMON, Corinne S.
法定姓名：
Corinne S. Solomon 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 20 區）
SolomonforHawaii.com
SolomonforHawaii@gmail.com
(808)  650-3245
 阿羅哈， 我是 Corinne  Solomon  (科琳 ‧ 所羅門 )。 我是一位母親、 妻子和鄰居，
而非職業政客。身為在自家餐廳長大的第一代美國人，我很早就培養出強烈的職
業道德。我擁有太平洋大學藥學博士學位， 在退休照顧家人前曾在歐胡島醫院工作。
如果當選，我將著重於以下問題：生活成本、社區和立法的清晰度。我將對增加生
活成本的法律投反對票，並主張政府改革以減少開支。我將傾聽您的需求並為我們
社區發聲。我承諾將我薪水的 20%捐獻給第 20選區 ——請參考我的網站，詳細了
解我的「 20%給20選區」承諾。有了您的選票，我們可以共同讓夏威夷再次成為
生活成本合理的宜居土地。如果可以代表您們，我將榮幸之至。謝謝！
2024選民指南
 普選普選39州眾議員（ 21 區）
選票姓名：
SAYAMA, Jackson D.
法定姓名：
Jackson D. Sayama 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 21 區）
www.jacksonsayama.com
jackson@jacksonsayama.com
(808)  772-6145
	 作為本選區出生長大的第四代日裔美國人，我很自豪 21區是我永遠的家
園，並很榮幸能擔任過本選區眾議員四年的時間。受到建立一個讓當地家庭都能夠
居住，並且打造出繁榮夏威夷的願景的鼓舞之下，我主張立法為當地居民增加經濟
適用住房、增加公共教育計畫資金，並消除官僚機構低效率的問題。如果獲得連
任的機會， 我希望可以著重在解決這些問題， 以及其他問題如醫療保健勞動力發展、
公寓治理，還有將未充分利用的州有財產轉變為經濟適用住房等相關議題上。
選票姓名：
SEASHELL, Joelle
法定姓名：
Joelle M. Seashell 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 21 區）
Houserepd21@gmail.com
(808)  799-0253
	 阿羅哈！有機會向您拜票，爭取在州眾議院為您服務是我的榮幸。現在
正是糾正我們深刻關切的根源問題的時機，使我們能夠實現社區的進步。光是去
年就有數千名當地家庭因生活成本逃離這些島嶼。我們必須透過降低和重組稅收
來緩解經濟壓力。我們還需要消除過度的、削弱性的法規和政策。立法必須嚴厲
打擊犯罪， 並保護家庭 ——堅強社區的基石。我們的政客在花我們的錢時怠忽職守，
在為選民的最大利益服務時對政策也粗心大意。是時候做出改變並創造一個我們的
孩子不必逃離的夏威夷了。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
40州眾議員（ 22 區）
選票姓名：
GARRETT, Andrew Takuya
法定姓名：
Andrew Takuya Garrett 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 22 區）
www.andrewtakuyagarrett.com
andrewtakuyagarrett@gmail.com
(808)  354-1108
	 作為您們的州眾議員能為 22區服務是我一生的榮幸，我非常感謝您們對
我的信任。在我的第一個任期內， 我們透過執行歷史性的減稅措施來援助勞工家庭、
持續進行必要的公共教育投資，並採取實際措施加強我們的醫療保健系統從而取
得重大進展。然而，我們的工作還不僅僅如此而已。我將自己整個職涯都奉獻在
公共服務上，我正在尋求連任的機會，希望能擴大我們在解決夏威夷幾項最棘手
問題上所累積的動能。我身為一名有兩個美麗女兒的父親，堅定不移地致力於確
保她們這一代能夠在夏威夷茁壯成長，而不是被迫離開島嶼去其他地方尋找機會。
讓我們齊心協力，為各位打造更光明的未來。謝謝您的支持！
選票姓名：
IMAMURA, Jeffrey H.
法定姓名：
Jeffrey H. Imamura 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 22 區）
jeffimamuraforhawaii@gmail.com
(808)  927-0660
	 未遞交任何聲明
2024選民指南
 普選普選41州眾議員（ 24 區）
選票姓名：
ANDERSON, Jillian T.
法定姓名：
Jillian T. Anderson 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 24 區）
www.jillianforhawaii.com
jillianforhawaii@gmail.com
 Jillian Anderson  (吉莉安 ·安德森 )——是 「讓我們真的把事情做好」 的選擇。
三歲時，我搬到了 Waikiki ，從幼稚園到高中皆就讀於 Sacred  Hearts 學院，並以優異
的成績從夏威夷大學 Manoa 分校畢業，攻讀三門商業學科 (金融、行銷和創業 ) 和
歷史。在短短幾年內，本州各個層面都已經變得面目全非。支出變得是難以承受
的負擔、遊民現象猖獗、犯罪司空見慣、基礎建設搖搖欲墜、生活品質不斷下降。
我在三屆立法會議中一直都在本州議會的第一線工作 (先是擔任立法分析師，目前
擔任眾議院少數派政策領袖的幕僚長 )，並擔任 Waikiki 鄰里委員會一員參與社區活
動。我們不能再袖手旁觀地看著許多問題繼續惡化，我們必須採取行動。如須詳細
瞭解我優先執行的要務， 請造訪 ： www.jillianforhawaii.com  或 @jillianforhawaii  (Instagram) 。
選票姓名：
TAM, Adrian
法定姓名：
Adrian K. Tam 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 24 區）
adrianforhawaii.com
info@adrianforhawaii.com
(808)  388-8281
 我是 Adrian  Tam (愛德利安 ‧ 陳 )。我在檀香山出生長大，並以身為卡拉尼
高中的畢業生自豪。從賓州州立大學畢業後，我回到家鄉為家裡的小型企業工作。
在感受到社區對正向改變的渴求以後，我在夏威夷州立法機構從事公共服務。擔任
工作人員幾年後，我很榮幸在 2020年新冠肺炎疫情最嚴重的時候當選為您們的州
眾議員。我的使命很簡單：讓鄰居們生活得更好。這代表著解決公共安全、噪音污
染和生活成本問題，同時為我們社區的重要專案籌集重要資金。我其他要著手進行
的最重要任務包括州面臨的重要問題，例如失業、經濟多元化、可負擔居住空間和
保護我們的環境。如果能再次為您提供服務，我將備感榮幸，懇請各位支持我。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
42州眾議員（ 27 區）
選票姓名：
LIM, Margaret U.
法定姓名：
Margaret U. Lim 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 27 區）
www.lim4hawaii.com
margaret@lim4hawaii.com
(808)  551-4532
	 我結婚 31年了，育有 3個成年兒子，而且房地產事業也蒸蒸日上。我是
一名屋主、企業主和投資者。我出生並在菲律賓長大成人。我的父母是第二代中
國移民。我是夏威夷大學 Manoa分校校友。我與本地教會關係良好，也是檀香山
房地產經紀人委員會成員。我的職業道德、為人正直、勤奮不懈、熱情和強大商
業營運背景將成為我們州的寶貴資產和力量。我的首要目標包括保障並促進我們
孩子的福祉；減少犯罪、非法吸毒、官僚繁文縟節以及不必要的納稅人資金支出；
管理我們的遊民。透明度、責任感和問責制是我所持守的道德觀之一。我競選公職
旨在回饋夏威夷人民，並改變他們的生活環境。懇請您支持我。
選票姓名：
TAKENOUCHI, Jenna
法定姓名：
Jenna W.Y.C. Takenouchi 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 27 區）
jennatakenouchi.com
jenna.takenouchi@gmail.com
(808)  368-7311
	 我努力與鄉親鄰里建立開放且積極回應的溝通管道，更可以在立法機關
中代表您們的利益，並協助滿足社區需求。我承諾會持續與居民進行頻繁的信件、
電子郵件和電話往來，並與居民聯合舉辦社區會議，並贊助與居民相關的法案，為
您最在意的議題發聲。作為健康與遊民委員會副主席，我著重於醫療勞動力短缺問
題、擴大心理健康和藥物濫用計畫、持久性連續護理的遊民服務，並且協助長者
就地養老取得長期護理選項。這些問題上仍有很多需要努力的空間，再加上社區
對於犯罪、生活成本、住房，還有保護社區特色和品質的擔憂，若能獲得連任機會，
我將繼續著手解決這些問題。能夠代表這個選區是我的榮幸，懇請您再次支持我。
謝謝您們考慮支持我。
2024選民指南
 普選普選43州眾議員（ 29 區）
選票姓名：
HUSSEY, Ikaika Lardizabal
法定姓名：
Ikaika M.L. Hussey 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 29 區）
ikaika.house
ikaikahussey@gmail.com
(808)  221-2843
	 目標：藉由秉持一貫原則的領導風格，保障本社區和整個夏威夷繁榮的
未來。家庭： ——南伊羅戈省塔古丁的 Lardizabal  (拉迪薩貝爾 )	母輩家族 ——夏威
夷島科哈拉的 Hussey  (胡瑟 )	父輩家族	 ——擁有配偶和三名子女	 工作： ——社區太
陽能專案和氣候變遷技術開發商 	——過去經歷：夏威夷州立法機關；團結起來第 5
分會	非營利委員會： ——家庭暴力行動中心	 (財政主管 ) ——Hanahau‘oli 學校	 ——夏
威夷住房開發公司 	——HAPA  ——Kalihi 山谷鄰里委員會	 ——土地阿囉哈經濟未來	 (財
政主管 )	學歷： ——政治學碩士	 (夏威夷大學 Manoa分校 ) ——和平與未來研究學士	
(夏威夷大學 Manoa分校 )	興趣： ——音樂家	 ——學習新事物	 (特別是科學 )	重要問
題： ——終結貪腐	 ——解決遊民和住房不安全的根本原因	 ——停車管理、道路、行
人安全	——犯罪與安全	 ——州預算的適當分配
選票姓名：
KAAPU, Carole Kauhiwai
法定姓名：
Carole Kauhiwai Kaapu 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 29 區）
CaroleKaapu.org
Carole.Kaapu@gmail.com
(805)  628-2822
	 我參選公職的原因如下：我是人民公僕，關心我們的社區議題是主呼召
我去做的事情。敬虔的價值觀在我們的政府和領導階層中已不再受到推崇。我們
缺失的價值觀都是一些很基本的事情，例如，不說謊、不欺騙、不偷竊、不殺生。
我在過去的十年裡一直在立法機關工作，為我們的社區和州服務，但我並沒有看
到事情有任何改善。人們相繼離開、企業一個接著一個倒閉、犯罪現象已然失控，
而且我們的社區目前也正遭受苦難。我在這個社區長大，畢業於 Ma'ema'e小學、
Kamehameha 中學和高中。我曾在 New Hope教會、州議會大廈、 Kamehameha 學校
附幼和 Kalihi聯合教堂工作。我曾在鄰里委員會和 Lanakila多功能老年中心委員會
任職十多年。我熱愛我的社區，能代表您們發聲將是我的榮幸，請投票支持 Carole  
Kauhiwai  Kaapu  (卡羅爾 ·考希瓦 ·卡普 )。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
44州眾議員（ 30 區）
選票姓名：
AZINGA, P. M.
法定姓名：
P. M. Azinga 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 30 區）
azinga-district30.godaddysites.com
nzhinza@gmail.com
(808)  202-1341
	 未遞交任何聲明
選票姓名：
TEMPLO, Shirley Ann Labadan
法定姓名：
Shirley Ann Labadan Templo 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 30 區）
shirleytemplo.com
shirley@shirleytemplo.com
(808)  748-9990
 Shirley  (雪莉 )	是一位經驗豐富的公務員，擁有十年的職業生涯。她在檀
香山市和縣、市議會立法機構一共工作七年的時間，負責解決公眾疑慮、主導社區
專案和監督城市立法。接著， Shirley  (雪莉 )	便開始創業，在新冠肺炎疫情期間幫
助許多當地企業。他們與她的商業夥伴一起設立 Ilima行銷公司，這是一家專門幫
助小型家族事業的數位行銷機構。 Shirley  (雪莉 )	藉著其連任兩屆夏威夷州立法機
構議員資格，拓展了她的參政生涯，負責分析、處理和起草州立法法案和決議事
項。 Shirley  (雪莉 )	是一位忠誠又有熱情的公務員，她由衷地期盼能改善各個社區
的生活環境。她是 Kalihi-Palama 鄰里委員會、 Farrington 高中社區委員會成員，而且
還是民主黨眾議院 30區議會女主席。她也是 「 Keeping  Up With Kalihi」 的聯合創始人，
這是一個致力於增強 Kalihi技能的線上團體。
2024選民指南
 普選普選45州眾議員（ 31 區）
選票姓名：
ICHIYAMA, Linda
法定姓名：
Linda E.I. Chong 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 31 區）
www.lindaichiyama.com
Lindaichiyama@gmail.com
(808)  392-4547
	 阿囉哈！我叫 Linda Ichiyama  (琳達‧市山 )，很榮幸自 2010年以來擔任您
們的州眾議員。我在鹽湖出生長大，身為鹽湖人我引以為傲。我畢業於鹽湖小學、
Moanalua 中學、 Moanalua 高中，然後接著就讀於喬治城大學和夏威夷大學 Manoa分
校William  S. Richardson 法學院。我會與本選區立法者密切合作，從而改善學校環境，
例如新蓋新的 MoHS表演藝術中心和棒球 /壘球場。懇請您在 2024年選舉中投票支
持我。如有任何問題或疑慮，歡迎隨時寄信至 repichiyama@gmail.com 與我聯絡。
選票姓名：
VALDEZ, Nancy A.
法定姓名：
Nancy A. Valdez 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 31 區）
nancyavaldez@yahoo.com
(808)  489-3128
	 阿囉哈，我是 Nancy  Valdez  (南希 ·瓦爾迪茲 )。我今年 55歲，住在 31區
的Moanalua/ 鹽湖地區。作為夏威夷 31區眾議員席位的候選人，我承諾會成為社區
值得信賴和可靠的權益倡導者。我的使命是以透明且負責任的方式傾聽並解決社
區成員的擔憂。我們的社區需要一位能夠立即採取行動解決問題、回應投訴意見、
促進安全、 接納創新想法和嶄新方法來改善社區福祉和生活品質的領導者。謝謝您，
Nancy  Valdez  (南希 ·瓦爾迪茲 )。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
46州眾議員（ 32 區）
選票姓名：
AIU, Micah Pookela Kim
法定姓名：
Micah Pookela Kim Aiu 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 32 區）
micahaiu.com
vote@micahaiu.com
(808)  429-9335
	 阿羅哈。我正在競選連任州議會眾議員，以繼續代表 	32	區的居民。在我
短短 35年的歲月中，我看到我的母親參議員 Donna  Mercado  Kim (唐 娜‧麥 凱 多‧金 ) 
帶來了正向的影響，讓夏威夷成為一個更適合我居住的地方。到了我們這一代挺
身而出的時候了。我一生都住在莫阿納魯阿。我們的社區應該要有誠實、透明和
負責任的社區領導人。我將不懈努力，與我所服務的人們建立信任，並確保我所
做的每一個決定都融合著他們的意見。我將憑藉我 8年的律師經驗， 發出強而有力、
有效的聲音，倡導有意義的政策，並確保我們的政府為人民服務。如能為您服務，
我將備感榮幸，並謝謝您考慮我。
選票姓名：
SHIMIZU, Garner Musashi
法定姓名：
Garner M. Shimizu 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 32 區）
voteshimizu.com
voteshimizu@gmail.com
	 阿囉哈，各位朋友，我在受到服務社區的強烈號召下，很高興宣布參加
2024年大選。 2022年當時，雖然起步較晚，但我們離重大變革僅有 246票的差距。
這點表示我們共同擁有的難以置信的無限潛力。我們現在比以往任何時候都更需要
政府具有誠信和領導力。我承諾不僅為今天，也會為後代子孫帶來正面影響而努
力。我是一位擁有 30多年經驗的企業、社區和教會領袖。透過管理家族企業並當
選Moanalua 山谷社區協會和鈑金承包商協會主席，我習得為他人服務和做出造福
他人的決策所需的必要技能。懇請您持續給予我信任、支持與祝禱。我們可以改
變自己的命運，但如果沒有您們神聖的一票，我就無法做到這一點。謝謝， Garner  
Shimizu  (加納 ·清水 )
2024選民指南
 普選普選47州眾議員（ 34 區）
選票姓名：
DUPIO, Gaius, II
法定姓名：
Gaius K. Dupio II
共和黨
州眾議員（ 34 區）
gpearlcity@gmail.com
(808)  343-7314
	 您好，我的名字是 Gaius (蓋烏斯 )，請隨意叫我 Kipi (基匹 )。我住在
Pearl City，也就是那道太平洋柵欄。正如您可能想知道的那樣。為什麼要投票給
像我這樣的人選？我會帶來什麼樣的影響？我可以做出哪些改變？我知道哪些事
情？這些問題都問得很好，但我無法用此框可容納的 150個單字簡述這些答案。我
可以告訴您的是，我並不滿意我們的政治人物、政府領袖和負責人對我們的家園和
社區所作的一切。您投票給我代表您僱用我為您工作，我就住在這個社區，您會看
到我走在街道上，看到我乘坐公共巴士，這些景象都代表著您將能夠親自向我說明
自己的需求和願景。人民的真實聲音。謝謝
選票姓名：
TAKAYAMA, Gregg
法定姓名：
Gregg  Takayama 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 34 區）
greggtakayama.com
greggtakayama@hawaii.rr.com
(808)  382-3212
 Gregg  Takayama  (格雷格‧高山 )	曾在州議會任職 12年，在那之前曾擔任
獲獎記者和已故美國參議員 Dan Inouye及夏威夷大學馬諾阿分校的通訊總監。他的
立法成就包括制定州政府向家庭照顧者提供援助的法律 	(全國首部 )、成立懲教監
督委員會以改善監獄和看守所，以及透過州立專案小組打擊非法空中煙火。 Gregg
已爭取到超過 6,000萬美元改善 Pearl市學校的新教室、現代教育技術和空調。他
的連任得到了夏威夷州教師協會的支持。他幫助增加了州政府對老年人計畫的資
助，使體弱的老年人能夠安全地在家中生活，並提供送餐、家庭護理和交通等服務。
Gregg曾被 AARP授予最佳國會大廈護理人員獎，並因幫助失智患者而被阿茲海默症
協會授予榮譽。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
48州眾議員（ 37 區）
選票姓名：
KAAUMOANA, Taylor
法定姓名：
Taylor K. Kaaumoana 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 37 區）
votetaylork.com
votetaylork@gmail.com
(808)  342-9160
	 您有什麼樣的願景？您對夏威夷有什麼的期望和夢想？我們孩子有什麼
樣的願景？我們夏威夷的孩子有什麼樣的期望和夢想？知識是一把鑰匙，善用知識
便能開啟為阿囉哈夏威夷決定正確選擇的大門。
選票姓名：
LA CHICA, Trish
法定姓名：
Mae Patricia Q. La Chica 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 37 區）
www.trishlachica.com
hello@trishlachica.com
(808)  799-4620
	 阿囉哈，作為 37區的州眾議員的我一直努力確保社區居民的心聲有被傾
聽、意見受到重視，並且受到援助。我們在過去的兩年裡改善社區安全、恢復校車
服務，重新開放米 Mililani曲棍球場、清理了 Kipapa峽谷的遊民營地，並保護孩子
免受電子煙的危害。但要做的事情還有很多。我將在 2024年競選第二個任期，持
續為最重要的議題奮鬥。我要持續擁護的政策會將優先考慮公共安全、解決住房
負擔能力和生活成本、投資學校、支持當地企業，並且確保我們社區獲得更好的
醫療保健和交通便利。作為一個在本選區撫養孩子的母親，我會努力確保這個社
區仍然是最適合居住和養育家庭的地方。只要齊心協力， 我們就能帶來真正的改變。
現任者， Trish (翠西 )
2024選民指南
 普選普選49州眾議員（ 38 區）
選票姓名：
CHEAPE MATSUMOTO, Lauren
法定姓名：
Lauren K. Matsumoto 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 38 區）
laurenforhawaii.com
lauren@laurenforhawaii.com
(808)  358-7816
	 我很榮幸能在過去 12年內擔任您的眾議員為 Mililani服務。我出生在這個
社區並在此茁長成人，現在養育著自己的家庭，這個社區就是我心之所嚮。我很
自豪能夠就讀 Mililani的學校，並在那之後獲得夏威夷大學的學士學位、夏威夷太
平洋大學的碩士學位和 Argosy大學的博士學位。我的教育背景加上我的立法經驗，
使我能夠有資格代表我們的選區。自 2012年當選以來，我一直不斷投注心力、為
您們服務，並一路累積能成為立法機構有效代表所需的經驗。與您進行公開溝通依
然是我第一優先執行的事務，確保您的意見能影響高生活成本、住房、遊民、犯
罪和政府透明度等重要問題的相關政策。然而，是我堅定不移地持守承諾以及與
Mililani之間的深厚連結，才使得我真的有資格且很榮幸能夠繼續為您服務。
選票姓名：
OZAWA, Alexander Kekuanao’a
法定姓名：
Alexander Mori Kekuanaoa Ozawa 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 38 區）
alexozawa.com
alexozawa@gmail.com
(808)  554-1772
 Mililani是夏威夷最好的小鎮。這裡是我三代家族的避風港，我承諾會竭
盡所能確保這裡能培育和啟發子孫後代的美好之地。我們可以透過提供住房、糧
食和農業、教育和交通資源來解決生活成本危機。 Mililani需要一位注重所有公民的
多元文化、平權和包容的代表。有組織的勞工、可負擔生活的薪資、全民醫療保健、
婦女權利，以及確保為各種膚色和信仰的人們提供安全和誠摯的環境，這些對於
充滿活力和繁榮的民主來說相當重要。在您的支持下， 我將成為一名懂得協作配合、
平易近人、透明且高效的立法人員，會在夏威夷州議會大廈代表您發聲。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
50州眾議員（ 39 區）
選票姓名：
PIERICK, Elijah
法定姓名：
Elijah I. Pierick 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 39 區）
elijahpierick.com
elijah.pierick.publicservant@gmail.com
(808)  258-3235
	 阿囉哈， 各位鄰居！您是最重要的第一順位。 為您服務就是一切意義所在。
我的目標是讓我們的社區擁有： ——減少犯罪	 ——降低生活成本	 ——減少昂貴的住
房	——減少遊民問題 	——更優良的教育 	——減少交通問題 	如果有機會再為您服務
兩年，這些議題將是我會關注的要點。請透過電話 /發送簡訊到我的個人電話，與
我保持聯絡： (808)-258-3235 。我很願意聆聽各位的意見。
選票姓名：
ROSENLEE, Corey
法定姓名：
Corey A. Rosenlee 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 39 區）
www.coreyrosenlee.com
coreyrosenlee@gmail.com
(808)  677-3537
 Corey Rosenlee  (科里 ·羅森利 )	致力於為勞工家庭爭取權益，為子孫後代
創造更光明的未來。他在坎貝爾高中擔任近二十年的社會研究學老師。在他的指
導下， 成千上萬的西歐胡島孩童了解公民參與、 解決社區問題和社會責任的重要性。
2015年至 2021年間， Corey擔任夏威夷州教師協會主席，致力於增加學校資金、提
高教師薪資，並提供空調，讓公立教育體系中太過悶熱的教室變得更涼爽。他目前
是Ewa鄰里委員會	 (Ewa Neighborhood  Board)	的成員。從可負擔住房到交通緩解再到
急難準備等議題， Corey對影響我們州的基本問題有著深入了解。作為終身捍衛夏
威夷最弱勢群體的人士，他已做足準備，企圖恢復當地政府的誠信，並針對我們島
上居民所面臨的問題提出真正的解決方案。
2024選民指南
 普選普選
51州眾議員（ 40 區）
選票姓名：
MARTINEZ, Rose
法定姓名：
Rosebella Locquiao Ellazar-Martinez 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 40 區）
rosebella.martinez@icloud.com
(808)  224-1261
	 作為 40區的現任的州議會眾議員。我正在尋求連任，以繼續進行我在我
的選區啟動的計畫。由於我為我所在選區的所有學校爭取到了基本建設改善專案的
資金，我們已開始進行建設，並會在未來持續進行。我也推出或共同推出了幾項法
案和幾項決議，這些法案和決議已經通過並將採納成法律，為社區帶來了正面的影
響。除了資助學校的專案外，我還為雜草和種子計畫、夏威夷人道協會和珊瑚復育
組織爭取到了援助贈款。我們也在其他方面有卓越的表現，例如在哈那卡西街的其
中一個公車停靠站設立庇護所，成功解決了選民所投訴的問題。我將持續為我的選
區努力工作。
選票姓名：
REYES ODA, Julie
法定姓名：
Julie K. Reyes Oda 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 40 區）
juliereyesoda.com
juliereyesoda@gmail.com
(808)  953-2054
	 我是 Julie Reyes  Oda (朱莉 ·雷耶斯 ·奧達 )，我競選公職是因為我相信我
們可以為夏威夷的未來做得更好。我們的社區是最重要的。作為您們下一任的州眾
議員，我承諾會在州議會中為您們發聲。若能當選，我將爭取好的學校、好的工作、
安全的社區、強大的經濟、減少政府浪費和政府透明度。我將獨立為我們的社區發
聲，懇請各位投票支持我。請造訪 JulieReyesOda.com ，深入了解我的背景資歷。
選票姓名：
ULUFANUA, Christian P.
法定姓名：
Christian P. Ulufanua 
我們人民黨
州眾議員（ 40 區）
ulufanua4ewa.com
ulufanua.christian@gmail.com
(915)  808-6800
	 作為夏威夷 40選區州議會的獨立候選人，我致力於要求落行問責制並
為我們的社區帶來成果。我們值得為公平待遇而奮鬥並採取果斷行動的領導風格。
我決心解決我們選區面臨的重要問題。從確保公用事業費率的透明性和公平性到
保護我們的環境和確保安全、乾淨的水，我將不懈努力，尋求造福我們所有人的
解決方案。我們的社區值得更多的關注和尊重。我們需要透過更多的社區活動和
更強大的當地領導力，使 Ewa Beach成為一個充滿活力的中心。現在是 Ewa Beach、
Ewa、Westlock和Iroquois  Point獲得應有的認可和幫助的時候了。讓我們努力實現這
樣的未來。 	P. S .	為視障人士描述這個景象，我的言語和表達，並伴有不同文化符號、
旗幟以及我穿著狩獵迷彩的身後的花朵。阿羅哈
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
52州眾議員（ 41 區）
選票姓名：
ALCOS, David A., III
法定姓名：
David A. Alcos III
共和黨
州眾議員（ 41 區）
RepAlcos.com
teamalcos41@gmail.com
(808)  864-6928
	 阿羅哈，我是 David Alcos (大衛 ‧ 阿爾科斯 )，在我們的 Ewa Beach社區已
紮根了五代之久。我擁有承包和培訓方面的背景， 20多年來一直致力於為我們的
社區服務。我致力於讓我們的州成為一個更美好的居住地， 專注於教育、 安全、 交通、
遊民問題和社區福祉。我熱衷於為所有人創造更光明的未來。感謝您的支持，我將
繼續努力為我們的社區和子孫後代做出正向的改變。
選票姓名：
CLARK, John H., III
法定姓名：
John H. Clark III
民主黨
州眾議員（ 41 區）
friendsofjohnclark.com
info@friendsofjohnclark.com
(808)  428-1564
	 為國家、社會和您服務 ……我在國家海軍服役了 30年，並且今年將在
Ewa鄰里委員會服務的第十年，我對於社會的承諾和服務的熱忱年年不斷增長。 41
區	(‘Ewa海灘、 ‘Ewa Gentry、Pointe海、 Kalaʻeloa	、Ko Olina部分地區 )	是瓦湖島最多
元且人口最稠密的地區之一。我期盼能確保我們不斷成長的社群持續保持積極主
動的心態，為長期成功願景做好萬全準備。這意味著必須與其他立法者攜手合作，
並聚焦在增加社會的就業機會上、尋求更安全的社區解決方案、支持經濟適用住房
計劃， 並確保年輕人獲得優質教育。我擁有商業管理學士學位和合約管理碩士學位，
我是企業主和當地非營利組織的創始人。我的目標是要持續為國家、為社會、為您
服務！
2024選民指南
 普選普選53州眾議員（ 42 區）
選票姓名：
GARCIA, Diamond
法定姓名：
Diamond D. Garcia 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 42 區）
DiamondGarcia.com
RepresentativeGarcia@gmail.com
(808)  953-0483
	 阿囉哈，大家，感謝您花時間閱讀夏威夷的新選民指南。我的名字是
Diamond  Garcia  (戴蒙德 ·加西亞 )，在過去兩年中能夠有機會在眾議院代表您和您的
家庭，我感到非常榮幸。自從在 2022年被我們社區的人民推舉以來，我很高興地
向大家報告，我們已經開始行動，為對我們 West O'ahu家庭重要的議題發聲。我懇
請您的支持，並投票給我以再次連任議會眾議員，以便我們能夠繼續與夏威夷的政
治機器作鬥爭，同時努力為我們的社區做好事情。我們不能再袖手旁觀，選出同樣
類型的政客，他們不斷增加我們的生活成本，並眼看著當地家庭收拾行李搬到美國
大陸。謝謝您的考慮！上帝保佑您
選票姓名：
PARIS, Anthony Makana
法定姓名：
Anthony Makana Paris 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 42 區）
www.votemakana.com
makana4house@gmail.com
(808)  398-2468
	 阿囉哈：我是 Anthony  Makana  Paris (安東尼 ·馬卡納 ·帕里斯 )。我在
Nānākuli長大，現在在 Kapolei擁有一套房產，我來自勞工家庭，在過去 13年間
一直與鋼鐵工人一起工作。我擁有麻省理工學院、聖克拉拉分校和夏威夷大學
Richardson 學院的工程、神學和法律學位。我擔任 Makakilo/Kapolei/Honokai  Hale鄰里
委員會主席、夏威夷公民俱樂部協會第一副主席以及 Waiʻanae海岸綜合健康中心理
事會理事，持續為我們的社區服務。我們的社區正面臨交通擁擠的問題、無法負擔
住房、犯罪孳生、工作機會消失、老化問題和無法抵禦氣候變遷的基礎建設，還有
教育資金不足等問題。解決這些問題代表會藉由解決糧食安全問題，為當地家庭建
立一個住所；擴大海岸線公園並保護水源流域；修復基礎建設；完成檀香山鐵路；
納入全州內進行經濟適用住房解決方案的一部分，並為 OHA和DHHL提供資金。我
們齊心協力一同為子孫留下更美好的夏威夷。謝謝！
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
54州眾議員（ 45 區）
選票姓名：
DESOTO, Desire Auguste
法定姓名：
Desire A. DeSoto 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 45 區）
desiredesoto.com
desiredesoto@gmail.com
(808)  561-1110
	 阿囉哈， 我是 Desiré  De Soto (迪瑟雷 ‧ 德索托 )。我是 Mākaha的永久居民，
也是夏威夷公立學校的畢業生。我就讀於 Mākaha	小學、 Waiʻanae 中學和 Pearl City
中	('91)，就讀期間我就很擅長游泳，因此獲得學區該項殊榮。我堅守著我對我們社
區的承諾。在取得 Whitworth 學院	 ('96)	學士學位後，我回到 Waiʻanae 擔任教師，後
來在 Chaminade 大學	 ('01)	從事學校諮詢工作。我的目標一直是為我們社區的孩子提
供最好的援助，這項使命來自我的長者對我的教誨。我取得組織心理學博士學位，
在攻讀期間協助了 Wai'anae  to Whitworth  'Auwai和Papahana  'o Kaiona  (ALP)	的創辦。身
為一名敬業的學校輔導員，我將繼續保障居民的社交、情緒、身體、心理和經濟福
祉的權益。如需更多資訊，請造訪 www.desiredesoto.com 。
選票姓名：
MURAOKA, Chris
法定姓名：
Christopher L. Muraoka 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 45 區）
chris4waianae@gmail.com
	 我可以協助推動我們所需的變革，讓我們的阿囉哈社區重返以往榮光。
我很樂意聽取您的意見，並贏得您神聖的一票。
2024選民指南
 普選普選55州眾議員（ 46 區）
選票姓名：
GABRIEL, Daniel Michael
法定姓名：
Daniel M. Gabriel 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 46 區）
dannymgabe@gmail.com
(808)  219-7078
	 身為 O’ahu中部人，我熱衷於代表我成長的社區。我畢業於 Kanoelani 小
學和 Hanalani學校，然後獲得夏威夷大學西歐胡島分校工商管理學士學位，主修會
計	。我在 Whitmore、Wahiawa、Mililani和Waipio等O’ahu中部地區長大。我和妻子、
兩個男孩在 Wahiawa在2021年購買了一棟古老的種植園式住宅，讓我的人生旅程圓
滿。身為 Wahiawa活躍的社區份子和一個年輕家庭中的父親，我觀察到，我們的人
民希望知道他們的代表確實聽到了他們的聲音，並正在努力維護他們的生活方式。
如果能夠在未來的歲月裡為我們的孩子們保護和維護我們的選區，將是我的榮幸。
選票姓名：
PERRUSO, Amy A.
法定姓名：
Amy A. Perruso 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 46 區）
voteamyperruso.com
amyperruso@gmail.com
(808)  351-0980
	 我將不斷為廉潔選舉和誠實政府而奮鬥。我們必須為良好的治理奠定堅
實的基礎， 以便以公正公平的方式減輕氣候危機的影響， 透過建立糧食和能源主權、
對公共衛生和公共教育提供更強大的援助、深思熟慮地開發真正的可負擔住房，並
更加妥善地管理我們的公共信託資源	 (例如水和土地 )，將社會福祉擺在優先地位。
我永遠會優先考量那些最弱勢人的需求，並將持續針對性地傳遞真相和建立關係，
增強公眾對政府的信心。我知道我的社會願意為了讓這個政府成為我們所自豪且能
為我們提供保護的政府，而付諸各種努力，若能與各位一同推動進步是我的榮幸。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
56州眾議員（ 47 區）
選票姓名：
AGUIRRE, John W. (Johnny)
法定姓名：
John W. Aguirre 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 47 區）
johnnydist47.com
votejohnny47@gmail.com
(808)  754-2197
	 「僕人式領導風格」 ——傾聽並為您的目標、安全和生計提供援助。我是
一名退休的消防員和天生的公務員。我相信保護我們的孩子、父母的權利和我們的
宗教信仰。我支持女子運動的神聖性以及她們的隱私權、自衛權以及保護我們家庭
和鄰居的法律規則。我不支持強制性疫苗、口罩或封城。我們必須消除浪費的政府
支出、設定任期限制，並且我們的政府需要提高效率。住房、食物和天然氣價格令
人無法接受。我希望我的家人能得到最好的，我相信您也是。我曾在經濟上陷入困
境，並對未來感到擔憂，這是一種可怕的感覺。作為一名僕人，我希望帶領我們的
社區過上更好的生活。
選票姓名：
QUINLAN, Sean
法定姓名：
Sean A. Quinlan 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 47 區）
voteseanquinlan.com
seanquinlan82@gmail.com
(808)  388-2823
	 八年前，我被選為北岸和科奧勞洛亞的代表，並有兩個非常具體的目標
需要完成 ——修復卡胡庫高中的排水系統，並在拉尼亞凱亞建造一條繞行道路。我
們於 2020年完成排水工程， Laniakea繞道建設將於今年夏天開工。我十分感謝大家
多年來的支持，一如既往，如果您有任何問題，歡迎隨時聯絡我，我會盡快回覆您。
萬分感謝， Sean (肖恩 )
2024選民指南
 普選普選57州眾議員（ 48 區）
選票姓名：
DAILY, Asheemo N. (Koda)
法定姓名：
Asheemo Nefertiti Daily 
綠黨
州眾議員（ 48 區）
www.thedailybred.com
koda@wisdomcircles.com
(808)  349-9923
	 阿囉哈，我的名字是 Asheemo  Nefertiti  Daily (阿希莫‧納芙蒂蒂‧戴立 )。
我今年 21歲，目前正在競選 48區的州眾議員。我畢業於城堡 	(Castle)	高中，是綠
黨黨員。我重視我們社區的聲音，我的目的是提攜年輕人，並賦予他們採取負責任
的行動以實現我們希望看到的夏威夷黃金未來的權力。阿囉哈，大地 ——讓我們人
們回歸這片土地。
選票姓名：
KITAGAWA, Lisa C.
法定姓名：
Lisa C. Kitagawa-Akagi 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 48 區）
www.lisakitagawa.com
vote.kitagawa@gmail.com
	 阿羅哈！我是 Lisa Kitagawa  (北川麗莎 )，自 2018年起有幸擔任眾議院	 48
區的州眾議員。我在卡內奧赫出生長大， 就讀於本帕克小學、 國王中學和城堡高中。
我還就讀於夏威夷大學馬諾阿分校，並獲得了家庭資源學士和高等教育管理碩士學
位。我目前擔任財務委員會副主席。在過去的 6年裡，我提出並通過法案，幫助我
們社區的學校、保護我們的卡內奧赫灣和科奧勞山流域等自然資源，藉以協助我們
的選區，並為我的社區帶來了大約 2.4億美元的營運和資本改善專案資金。我還解
決了不斷增加的遊民人口、對污水池的擔憂，以及小火蟻侵擾等社區的問題。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
58州眾議員（ 49 區）
選票姓名：
MATAYOSHI, Scot
法定姓名：
Scot P. Matayoshi 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 49 區）
scot@scotmatayoshi.com
	 眾議員 Scot Matayoshi  (史考特‧又吉 )已在 49區服務六年的時間。他目
前擔任勞工與政府營運委員會主席，致力於填補州未觸及的各個層面以改善政府服
務效能，制定出能平衡公共與私人利益的勞工政策，藉此提高政府行政效率。眾
議員 Matayoshi( 又吉 )	自上任以來已為選區專案帶來超過 1.25億美元的資金，其中
大部分金額便用於我們的學校。他已號召成立免下車流感疫苗診所、戰爭紀念館
修復工程、 電子垃圾回收活動、 溪流清理和城堡建築群學校補給活動。在疫情期間，
眾議員 Matayoshi( 又吉 )	將「農場到汽車」計畫帶到 Windward 購物中心，讓農民能
夠安全地將農產品直接盒裝出售給居民。他也通過了《農場到州》法案，要求州政
府從當地採購越來越多的農產品。如果再次當選，眾議員 Matayoshi( 又吉 )	將繼續
投注更多心力在我們的選區上！
選票姓名：
UBANDO, Josiah (BrahKruz)
法定姓名：
Josiah  Ubando 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 49 區）
www.brahkruz.com
josiah.nku@gmail.com
(808)  277-4337
	 我在親眼目睹立法會議後，想成為其中的一個改變力量，勇敢發聲幫助
塑造出我們目前和未來所希望看到的夏威夷。雖然我欠缺實際的政治經驗，但我有
一些我認為同樣重要的願景就是對社區的熱愛，以及讓我們的家園和人民變得更美
好的盼望。我在社群媒體上發表的內容成功讓夏威夷人民開懷大笑。我現在懇請各
位給我一個讓人們感到自豪的機會。 感謝您的投票支持！ Josiah  "BrahKruz"  Ubando  (喬
賽亞 ·「布拉克魯茲」 ·烏班多 )
2024選民指南
 普選普選59州眾議員（ 50 區）
選票姓名：
CONNELLY, Timothy D.
法定姓名：
Timothy D. Connelly 
共和黨
州眾議員（ 50 區）
tim@connellyforkailua.com
(407)  487-6177
	 我是 Tim Connelly  (提姆‧康奈利 )	準將	(退休 )，由於凱盧阿和夏威夷需
要一位能鼓舞人心並有勇氣推動夏威夷取得巨大進步的領袖，我正在競選夏威夷
眾議院 50區的眾議員。我曾在伊拉克和阿富汗帶領美國士兵進行戰鬥，並成功度
過了一場全球疫情。我將努力保護我們的公民、 減少犯罪和遊民、 發展我們的經濟、
教育我們的孩子、改善我們的基礎設施，徹底改革我們的緊急救災系統。我是兩個
傑出女兒的父親，也擔任了三年的寄養父母。生活成本是夏威夷最重要的事！我們
必須降低成本， 以幫助我們的家人和孩子不必搬到內陸。我將全力支持我們的警察、
急救人員和夏威夷國民警衛隊。我是第 50區所需的策略領導者。
選票姓名：
LEE, Mike
法定姓名：
Michael G.K. Lee 
民主黨
州眾議員（ 50 區）
mikeleeforhawaii.com
mikeleeforhawaii@gmail.com
(808)  388-6222
	 我是 Mike Lee (麥克 ·李)，我與妻子和兩個兒子住在 Kālaheo山坡。 Kailua
是我們的家園，也是我家人出生長大的地方。我正在競選在州立法機構代表您發聲
的機會，藉由加強教育體系、嚴厲打擊犯罪問題、減輕繁重稅收，並且保護自然資
源從而改善 Windward 社區居民的生活。我是一名教育工作者、小型企業主和社區
領袖。我擁有許多與政府、當地企業、非營利組織和學校一起推動社區計畫方面的
豐富經驗。身為這個社區的一份子，我瞭解居民每天面臨的挑戰。我優先執行的要
務會注重在解決和您擁有一樣擔憂的 Kailua和Kāne‘ohe鄉親們的煩惱。懇請您投票
支持我。讓我們齊心協力為後代子孫保護 Windward 社區的生活方式。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
60夏威夷事務辦公室摩洛凱島居民受託人
選票姓名：
ALAPA, Luana
法定姓名：
Sandra Luana Alapa 
摩洛凱島居民受託人
Alapa4oha.com
luanaalapa@gmail.com
(808)  782-1119
	 我是 Luana  Alapa (勞那 ‧ 阿拉帕 )，正在競選連任	 OHA	摩洛凱島	 -	拉奈島
受託人。身為夏威夷本土女性，我很幸運能夠透過下列方式為夏威夷人民提供服
務：教育、住房、健康和經濟穩定。我致力於確保實現這些目標。作為公僕，我
的其中一個目標是與其他夏威夷機構合作，努力倡議建造更多可負擔的居住空間 	
——	包括房屋維修、擴大農村地區的醫療保健、提供摩洛凱島急需的心理健康服務、
增加教育獎學金資金，以及為我們拉回族提供職業訓練。身為霍奧勒華的自耕農，
我自身也面臨這些挑戰，因而非常能理解這些挑戰的核心。在您的支持下，我們
能夠一起為拉回族創造更美好的未來。當夏威夷人昌盛時，整個夏威夷就會繁榮。
為他人服務是您能所給的最美好禮物。
選票姓名：
NIHIPALI, R. Kunani
法定姓名：
Ronald Kunani Nihipali Sr.
摩洛凱島居民受託人
huliau2014@gmail.com
(808)  349-6407
 O Kunani  Nihipali  ko’u inoa (歐庫納尼‧尼西帕里‧庫伊諾亞 )	是卡拉瓦歐人，
也是摩洛凱島霍奧勒華農莊的人民。目前，我們生活在一個意見極化的社會。 31年
前， 1993年道歉法讓我們夏威夷原住民走上和解之路。然而，作為夏威夷原住民，
我們接收到的道歉是空洞的。在政治、經濟、社會和文化上，我們都被排擠審查、
生存受到威脅，主體性逐漸被抹消。道歉不應該只是承認錯誤，還需要讓夏威夷原
住民公平地生存。許多證據指出，這些歷史恩怨造成了非常大的傷害。自從第一
批外國人踏上我們的海岸開始， 我們夏威夷人就與和世界攜手追求和平。進行和解，
而不是加劇撕裂，才能夠公平地撫平歷史的傷口。文化敏感度非常重要，否則難以
使人們真正地團結起來。
2024選民指南
 普選普選61夏威夷事務辦公室可愛島居民受託人
選票姓名：
AHUNA, Dan
法定姓名：
Daniel C. Ahuna III
可愛島居民受託人
ahunadan@gmail.com
(808)  631-1125
	 未遞交任何聲明
選票姓名：
LINDSEY, Laura A.
法定姓名：
Laura A. Lindsey 
可愛島居民受託人
lauralindseykauai@gmail.com
(808)  639-3038
	 夏威夷什麼時候變得不再是夏威夷了？當沒有夏威夷人的時候？如今，
有超過 65%的夏威夷人居住在夏威夷境外。形勢危急。病人快已無力回天。我們
需要進行止血。我們必須採取緊急和創造性的調整和行動，利用我們的資源來填補
缺口，讓我們的家庭保持完整並能留在家鄉。三十多年來，我一直在我們心愛的可
愛島上生活和服務。我不知疲倦地工作來幫助我們的家人。我對孩子及其家人的愛
是我前進的動力。今天，我們仍然遭受幾十年前說過的經濟種族滅絕。我的目標是
傾聽、 評估您的需求、 找到可用資源、 規劃和執行。如獲當選， 我將對患者進行分類，
找到傷口並施加壓力。我在這裡。讓我成為您的權益維護者、您的鬥士。請投給
lindsey4kauai ，謝謝
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
62夏威夷事務辦公室總受託人
選票姓名：
AHU ISA, Lei
法定姓名：
Leinaala S.P. Ahu Isa 
總受託人
lahuisa@gmail.com
(808)  383-5201
	 在瞭解受託人的信託義務後，我想幫助實現聯邦政府於 1959年創立 /建
立的公共信託的目的。第 8603號出版物第 5節第 4、5段落	 (1959)	撥出 203,500英畝
土地用於造福原住民，並規定： 「公共信託的五個目的之一旨在「改善夏威夷原住
民	(NH)	的生活條件」 。 1978年制憲會議承認原住民並無其他家園，因此需要保護他
們的生存 /生計	(語言、文化、集會權等 )。夏威夷州租出絕大部分土地，但卻沒
有將其淨收入的 20%用於「改善夏威夷原住民的生活條件」 。引自《公民節拍》的
敘述： 「 Oahu一半的遊民認為自己是 NH」 。超過 60%的NH離開自己的故鄉： (
選票姓名：
AKINA, Keli’i
法定姓名：
William Keli’i Akina 
總受託人
www.keliiakina.com
kelii@keliiakina.com
(808)  256-9792
 Keli’i Akina (凱里‧阿奇那 )	博士目前是 OHA受託人以及草根學院的總裁 /
執行長。 	 他身為一名監督者和改革者，致力恢復 OHA的誠信並反對欺詐、浪費和
濫用等惡劣行為。受託人 Akina (阿奇那 )	成功獲得 OHA的獨立法證審查，並實施
重大改革。 Akina (阿奇那 )	對OHA信託基金的使命旨在保護和發展信託，並善用信
託的力量滿足夏威夷人住房、 工作、 教育和醫療保健等需求。 	 	受託人 Akina (阿奇那 ) 
是為 OHA的受益人勇敢發聲的獨立心聲。 	 他同時也跟其他受託人攜手合作，進而
滿足夏威夷人的需求，並相信 OHA可以成為造福所有人	 (無論是夏威夷人或是非夏
威夷人 )	的力量。受託人 Akina (阿奇那 )	曾擔任許多董事會和組織的要職。他畢業
於Kamehameha 學校、西北大學和夏威夷大學。
2024選民指南
 普選普選63夏威夷縣長
選票姓名：
ALAMEDA, C. Kimo
法定姓名：
Christian Kimo Alameda 
市長
kimoformayor.com
connect@kimoformayor.com
(808)  345-9280
	 阿囉哈，夏威夷島，我在 2023年7月1日辭去夏威夷島社區健康中心副
總裁一職，決定競選夏威夷縣市長。我已經與數千名社區成員會面，並獲得全島
的支持。我的生活、工作、娛樂這三大領域政綱將聚焦在居民的需求上。我非常
有資格 ……——擁有最豐富的執行長領導經驗，並累積超過三十年的夏威夷島社區
服務經驗。 ——曾在政府 3種層級 (縣、州、聯邦 )和社區任職過。 ——具備健康、
心理健康、成癮、育兒和解決問題的專業知識。請造訪我的網站 kimoformayor.com
和Facebook/IG 帳戶 @drkimoalameda ， 進一步瞭解我優先執行的事項。我們必須改變，
我們現在就需要改變！讓我們拯救夏威夷，並繼續大聲說著「阿囉哈」！謝謝
選票姓名：
ROTH, Mitch
法定姓名：
Mitchell D. Roth 
市長
mitchroth.org
mitchroth.chair@gmail.com
(808)  989-0385
	 擔任您們的市長是我一生的榮幸。我們自 2020年以來一直致力於建立一
個可永續發展的夏威夷島，讓子孫後代能夠蓬勃發展。在我們的第一個任期內，我
們專注於為當地家庭建造房屋、加強關鍵基礎設施，並豐富社區資源，以提高所有
居民的生活品質。 我們已經提升了可負擔居住空間的供應量， 目前有到超過 8,200戶，
並讓我們的建築許可流程從全國最差提升到全州最好的水準。截至 12月，我們將
會在全島鋪設 100多英里的道路，並將檢修希洛污水處理廠，進行本縣歷史上最大
的基礎設施專案。我們增加了四倍的公園維護預算，改善所有人便利性，增加設施
並提升安全性。在您的支持下， 我們將繼續投資組織與單位， 建設我們的島嶼家園。
謝謝您的考慮。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
64夏威夷縣議會議員（ 5 區）
選票姓名：
KANEALI’I-KLEINFELDER, Matt
法定姓名：
Matthew A. Kanealii-Kleinfelder 
議會議員（ 5 區）
punamatters@gmail.com
(808)  756-3933
 Matt Kanealii-Kleinfelder  (馬特 ·卡內利 ·克萊因費爾德 ) 住在 Olaʻa，是 5區
現任議會議員。他是三個孩子的父親，也是一位小企業主，擁有貿易和客戶服務
經驗。他持續不斷地促進教育、藝術和農業發展。 Matt (馬特 ) 為了回應社區的擔
憂，因此增加 Puna地淤的警察職位、通過允許縣維護私人道路的法律、改善了
Stainback 高速公路的環境，並提供從私人財產拖走廢棄車輛的免費服務。他發起增
設Kea'au 的新警察局和消防局、新的基歐社區中心、 Shipman 公園總體規劃以及新
的基歐公共交通樞紐。由於本地區的人口不斷增長，他瞭解為後代子孫規劃傳承專
案的重要性。 Matt (馬特 ) 是一位謙虛且正直的候選人，也是唯一一位有效地執行
變革的候選人，從而提升我們的生活品質！謝謝，並且投給 Matt (馬特 )！
選票姓名：
RODENHURST, Ikaika
法定姓名：
Steven Ikaika Rodenhurst 
議會議員（ 5 區）
ikaikarodenhurst.com
ikaika.rodenhurst@gmail.com
(808)  203-7450
 阿囉哈！我是 Ikaika  Rodenhurst  (艾凱卡 ‧ 羅德胡斯特 )，目前正在競選夏
威夷 Puna Mauka  5區縣議會議員。當 Puna需要一個領袖挺身而出，為更美好的未
來而戰時， 我的出現便是為了這樣的景況帶來一絲希望。我是育有三個孩子的父親、
足球教練和一名持有執照的土木工程師。我的核心價值則是正直、承諾和同情心。
我第一優先執行的要務便是改善基礎建設、增強社區復原力和增強公共安全。我
擅於利用團隊合作的優勢，願意且能夠與任何人，甚至每個人一起工作，從而滿
足我們社區的需求。任何一位議會議員、市長、立法者、行政官員、企業或公民。
我們同在一條獨木舟上，需要齊心划槳前行，努力推動夏威夷島向前邁進的動力，
為後代子孫提供機會和未來。懇請您惠賜一票
2024選民指南
 普選普選65夏威夷縣議會議員（ 9 區）
選票姓名：
EVANS, Cindy
法定姓名：
Cynthia F.W. Evans 
議會議員（ 9 區）
cindyevanscountycouncil.com
cynthiaevans@aol.com
(808)  345-5810
	 我們無法假設經濟將為政府服務提供資金，或為人們提供薪資以維持收
支平衡。我將支持提高農民、牧場主人和小型企業取得成功的活動和法律。我會反
對增加這些人納稅負擔的措施。 Evans (艾文思 )在夏威夷州議會任職 16年，擔任
委員會主席等領導職務，並擔任多數派領袖。她帶來了規劃和政策制定經驗，努力
尋找有效的解決方案並依需要改變須著手進行的最重要任務。 Evans (艾文思 )	取得
Evergreen 州立學院的工商管理文學學士學位。 Evans (艾文思 )	曾居住在 South Kohala  
26年的時間。在伊利諾州的農業文化中出生和長大。她是家族裡第一代獲得大學
學位的畢業生。謝謝您考慮支持我。
選票姓名：
HUSTACE, James E.
法定姓名：
James E. Hustace 
議會議員（ 9 區）
hustaceforcouncil.com
hustaceforcouncil@gmail.com
(808)  464-2570
	 阿囉哈，大家！我的名字是 James  Hustace  (詹姆斯‧赫茲泰斯 )，我正在
尋求您的支持，期盼能代表北科哈拉和南科哈拉社區發聲。我的目標旨在與社區
其他成員攜手合作；努力增強縣服務內容、向我們的長者學習、傾聽選民意見，並
與社區組織建立牢固的合作關係。我與夏威夷有著深厚的淵源。我在 Waimea長大，
多年以來不斷尋求在 Waimea社區協會、南柯哈拉交通安全委員會、縣重新劃分委
員會以及威美亞步道和綠道擔任領導角色的機會，期盼能為社會做出莫大貢獻。我
們的社區面臨著許多挑戰，我們必須與縣、州和聯邦合作夥伴共同努力，尋找解
決方案來保護我們的居民， 增強我們的基礎建設並好好照顧土地。讓我們共同努力，
為北科哈拉和南科哈拉迎來紮根在社會的代表。謝謝您考慮支持我。如需瞭解更多
資訊，請造訪 hustaceforcouncil.com 。大步向前！
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選66毛伊島縣東毛伊島議會議員
選票姓名：
SINENCI, Shane
法定姓名：
Shane Michael Sinenci 
議員（東毛伊島）
votesinenci.com
ssinenci@yahoo.com
(808)  264-8919
	 在我的前三個任期內，我努力提高毛伊島縣因應挑戰的能力，督促我們
的政府對環境和經濟更加負責。在 2020年和 2022年的選舉中，我提出的憲章修正
案獲得選民的壓倒性同意，建立第一個縣農業部，並建立東毛伊島水務局，為居民
和農民提供更多水資源，並且更加妥善管理當地水資源。我起草全國最嚴格的市政
環境保護法， 禁止在縣屬土地上使用化學農藥和化肥， 保護縣府勞工的健康和環境，
同時減少本縣面臨昂貴訴訟的風險。我還設立了本縣第一個考古學者職位，保護
文化資源，同時加快審批流程和減少縣顧問支出，精簡縣府計畫。我會不斷努力，
在我們休養生息的過程中恢復經濟活力。
2024選民指南
 普選普選67
毛伊島縣西毛伊島議會議員
選票姓名：
ACQUINTAS, Lorien (Lolo)
法定姓名：
Lorien  Acquintas 
議員（西毛伊島）
loloacquintas.com
team@voteforlolo.com
(808)  446-0106
	 我們現在需要開創性的領導者！作為父親和企業主的我可以代表人民的
真實心聲。我將擔任對財政負責的表率，將本地社區放在第一順位，同時提供新
穎且明智的見解。我不受惠於任何人或特殊利益團體。我想成為解決問題的橋樑，
而不是其中阻礙發展的障礙。我們將共同將毛伊島恢復成一個讓各個家庭都繁榮
昌盛的地方。一個讓孩子都能安心終老的毛伊島。我在 8月8日的火災中失去我的
家園和企業。不過我很幸運，因為我的家人都平安無事。我瞭解那種一瞬間便失去
您曾努力爭取的一切的那種絕望感。火災過後， 我努力不懈地養活我的家人和員工。
我想以同樣的毅力為 Lahaina和整個毛伊島縣帶回希望。請投給 LOLO (洛洛 )
選票姓名：
PALTIN, Tamara Akiko Maile
法定姓名：
Tamara A.M. Paltin 
議員（西毛伊島）
TamaraPaltin.com
tampaltin@gmail.com
(808)  870-0052
	 熱情地向大家說聲阿囉哈，我是 Tamara  Paltin (塔瑪拉 ‧ 帕庭 )，是一位妻
子和兩個孩子的母親，我正在競選西毛伊島議會議員。目前是我的第三個任期，我
對於擔任民選官員、通過法令和監督縣預算流程的流程和程序有許多見解和經驗。
到目前為止，我已主導西毛伊島社區計畫更新，並讓它成為法律，促進懷卡普鄉村
城鎮和基洛哈納馬凱等住房專案的地目變更，並代表我們的議會參加夏威夷州縣協
會執行委員會。我今後的重點將會是幫助我們的縣，並特別著重拉海納鎮恢復和
重建。自 8月8日火災後的第二天起，我一直透過建立納皮里諾霍中心、提供星鏈、
提供更新等方式參與對居民的援助。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選68毛伊島縣 Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu 議會議員
選票姓名：
FORREST, James (Nahele)
法定姓名：
James  Forrest 
理事會成員（ Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu ）
votenaheleforrest.com
naheleforrest@gmail.com
(808)  758-9096
	 我們現在需要新的領導者。我會提供自己 20年來的律師專業經驗，其中
包括擔任毛伊島縣議會和夏威夷眾議院的立法律師。我瞭解法律，也瞭解如何利用
法律來幫助人民，反制這數十年來傷害辛勤工作的當地人民的那些不公正和不公平
的政策。杜絕腐敗的政客。 「真是夠了！」毛伊島縣未能保護人民。是時候感謝我
對手的服務，並迎接可帶來全新想法的新領導人選，好好幫助人民了。我們的資
源必須用於援助本地人和本地小型企業，而非豪華飯店和開發商。我正在爭取 25%
的工會加薪、為當地人重建 Lahaina、為每個人提供經濟適用住房、減少對當地企
業的監管、重要的環境保護、婦女權利和醫療保健、家庭財務安全及夏威夷人的正
義。
選票姓名：
LEE, Alice L.
法定姓名：
Alice L. Lee 
理事會成員（ Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu ）
aliceleehawaii@gmail.com
(808)  280-0035
	 我是 Alice Lee (艾莉絲 ‧ 李 )，正在競選連任毛伊島縣議會 Wailuku-Waihee-
Waikapu居民席次。我出生在毛伊島並在此長大成人，畢業於聖安東尼學校，並獲
得Chaminade 大學政治學文學學士學位。我爸爸的母親 Minnie  Gomez  Lee (米妮‧戈
麥 茲‧李 )	住在 Wells街，我媽媽的母親 Miriam  Kanakamaika'i  (米萊麥 ‧ 卡娜凱麥凱 ) 
住在 Wailuku的Kahookele 街。我的父母 Angelo  (安傑羅 )	和Momi Lee (莫 米‧李 )都
在Wailuku夏威夷電話公司工作。我的生命深深紮根於此地。我們正面臨著無數個
重大議題，例如迫切需要負擔得起的住房、薪水更高的工作、改善公共衛生和安全、
保護我們的文化和環境、實現經濟多元化、加強基礎建設施和資源等，以便為未來
野火或其他災難做好更萬全的準備。儘管我們面臨著排山倒海般的問題，但我們將
一起取得勝利並且變得更加強大。我懇請各位投給我神聖的一票支持我，謝謝。
2024選民指南
 普選普選69毛伊島縣卡胡魯伊議會議員
選票姓名：
KAMA, Tasha
法定姓名：
Natalie A. Kama 
議員（卡胡魯伊）
Friendsoftashakama.org
kahukama@gmail.com
(808)  463-2963
 Natalie  A Kama (娜塔莉 ‧ 卡瑪 ) 又名 Tasha Kama (塔莎 ‧ 卡瑪 )，是毛伊縣
議會卡胡魯伊選區居住席位的民主黨候選人，地址是 P. O. Box 2884 Wailuku,  HI 96793，
網址： FriendsoftashaKama.org ，電子郵件： tasha@friendsoftashakama.com ，電話： 808-
385-3400 ，2024年5月20日。 我因著我們的縣所經歷的居住危機而在 2018年加入競選。
2020年，新冠病毒出現，我們與世界隔絕，與彼此隔絕。內陸地區和毛伊島西部
的野火導致我們的居住危機倍增。居住問題仍然是重中之重。我將繼續在社區的指
引下迅速重建拉海納。我們必須花時間一起療傷、一起規劃，並為帶所有拉海納居
民回家找到必要的資金。這是我的承諾，在我們繼續相互扶持的同時，增加我們的
房屋數量，確保居民的就業和經濟機會。
選票姓名：
KAMEKONA, Carol Lee
法定姓名：
Carol Lee  Kamekona 
議員（卡胡魯伊）
carolleekamekona.com
carolleekamekona@outlook.com
(808)  264-9385
 我們的心聲、我們的家園、我們的毛伊島。我競選的目的是透過創新、
進步和勇氣來解決我們最棘手的問題，讓毛伊島煥然一新。我是一名曾服役 22年
的海軍退伍軍人，擁有深厚的領導價值觀，即擁有責任感、堅定不移地履行承諾
以及逆境中發揮領導實力的能力。毫無疑問地， 毛伊島的穩定狀態正陷入危險狀態。
住房是一項人權，但住房對超過一半的當地家庭來說，已經成為難以承受的壓力，
他們會從事多項工作，只為了有棲身之所和糊口飯吃。同時，我們有四分之一的房
屋並非當地居民擁有，我們的經濟明顯依賴旅遊業，家庭農場難以與廉價的進口食
品競爭。我計劃增加經濟適用住房、解決加強非居民所有權的經濟因素，並透過
援助小型企業、 醫療保健和貿易職業、 永續農業和電影業來實現經濟多元化的願景。
我們將共同打造出一個充滿活力又繁榮興盛的毛伊島。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選70毛伊島縣南毛伊島議會議員
選票姓名：
COOK, Tom
法定姓名：
Thomas M. Cook 
議員（南毛伊島）
friendsoftomcook.com
cooksynergy@gmail.com
(808)  870-2205
	 阿羅哈。我是 Tom Cook (湯姆‧庫克 )，現任南毛伊縣議會議員，懇請您
在今年的選舉中的支持。我為議會帶來平衡。作為 	50	多年的居民，我的深厚經驗
讓我能理解著當地重視的價值。我有 5個孩子，他們都畢業於毛伊島的公立學校。
1989年，我從學徒木匠晉升為總承包商，並不停加強我的建造和解決問題的技能。
作為一名員工，後來也擁有了聘用 40多名員工的公司，我親身經歷了包括申請並
等待建築許可證、租賃、貸款、育兒、高齡長照等生活經驗，讓我能在縣議會為
您們提供最周到的服務。我會讓地方政府具備常識， 理解人民的想望。懇請您支持，
在8月10日和 11月5日投票給我。謝謝。請在毛伊縣議會的選舉中投給 Tom Cook。
選票姓名：
KING, Kelly Takaya
法定姓名：
Kelly T. King 
議員（南毛伊島）
www.kellykingformaui.com
ktkmaui@me.com
(808)  283-1954
 Kelly King (凱 莉‧金 )	是毛伊島縣議會南毛伊島區的候選人，自 1985年成
為母親以來，她一直是永續發展領域的領袖，也是積極參與互動的優良居民。她
已經住在毛伊島 40多年， 與先生 Bob (包柏 )	育有兩個在毛伊島出生長大的孩子	 (畢
業於毛伊島高中和夏威夷大學 Mānoa分校 )，還擁有兩個孫子。作為一名長期保障
有彈性且繁榮社區權益的人士，她必須優先著手的要務包括多元化循環經濟、當地
再生能源、再生農業、糧食安全、經濟適用住房、社會公平、緊急準備、環境保
護和管理海岸線撤退。 King (金)	一直很積極地擔任許多非營利組織的董事會成員，
包括： •	夏威夷再生能源聯盟	 •	毛伊島農民聯盟委員會	 • Akakū：毛伊島社區電視台	
• Hui Mālama學習中心	 •	夏威夷大學毛伊島學院永續科學管理諮詢委員會	 •	毛伊努伊
島食品聯盟指導委員會
2024選民指南
 普選普選
71毛伊島縣 Makawao-Haiku-Paia 議會議員
選票姓名：
BOONE, Nara
法定姓名：
Nara  Boone 
議員（ Makawao-Haiku-Paia ）
votenaraboone.com
votenaraboone@gmail.com
(808)  283-3982
	 正當我們努力找尋 8月8日火災後的解決方案之際，決策桌上聽取社區
的心聲變得前所未有的重要。在全縣內提供適合有品質的經濟適用住房的這項挑戰
從未如此艱難過。我們的人民需要協助。作為毛伊島住房協會的租戶權利權益倡導
者/教育家，我知道還需要更多努力。我們需要將持有著重於社區福祉願景的人選
推舉取得席位。隨著我們做出經濟多元化、遠離旅遊業的決定，我們需要為人們創
造新的方式來養家糊口。我們需要協助農民，努力促進我們的糧食生產。我們需要
提供住房給雜貨店店員、學校工作人員、旅館和醫護人員。我們必須重建，同時將
社區的心聲擺在第一順位。請九個議會席位均需全數投票， 並將選票投給 BOONE  (布
恩)。謝謝！
選票姓名：
UU-HODGINS, Nohe
法定姓名：
Nohelani M.T. Uu-Hodgins 
議員（ Makawao-Haiku-Paia ）
votenohe.com
votenohe@gmail.com
(808)  269-0691
	 阿羅哈 ，我是 Nohe Uu-Hodgins  (諾赫 ·烏-霍金斯 )。我是現任的
Makawao、Paia、Haiku選區議會議員。我在 Paia出生長大，我的家族在毛伊島已生
活了好幾個世代。我對身為四名子女的母親感到自豪。我的丈夫 Koa和我們的家人
住在 Makawao。身為您們的議會議員，我相信明智發展、尊重環境和尊重當地文化
之間存在著平衡。在我目前的任期內，我曾為勞工和可負擔住房而發聲，並主張購
買Pauwela土地上的開放空間。在毛伊島毀滅性的火災以後，我們現在比以往任何
時候都更需要住房。我希望為我們的曾孫提供一個可以繼續稱之為家的地方。我很
榮幸能代表我的選區和我的島嶼家園， 我期盼能繼續擔任這項職務。有關更多資訊，
或要與我聯絡，請瀏覽我的網站 votenohe.com 。
2024 選民指南 
 普選普選72毛伊島縣內陸議會議員
選票姓名：
CRUZ, Jocelyn N.
法定姓名：
Jocelyn N. Cruz 
議員（內陆）
jocelyn@knowthyflow.com
(702)  419-0700
	 阿囉哈，毛伊島！我正在競選縣議會內陸席位，期望能帶來正向變化，
並為我們的社區服務。我的工作重點是透過再生農業實現糧食主權。我相信社區
是最強健的貨幣形式。我們與毛伊島正確網路協會合作，解決經濟適用住房、水
權、 豐富的營養食品、 管理旅遊業以及開墾和恢復土地等問題。在接下來的幾年裡，
Lahaina鎮的適當重建，以及援助我們的內陸農民和家庭必須成為第一優先執行的
事項。我們必須以開放態度、 包容的方式傾聽所有受 8月8日野火影響的居民意見，
並與他們聯手合作。我承諾會透過創造性政策解決方案，來強調環境保護。與我們
一起打造出毛伊努伊島繁榮永續的未來。謝謝！
選票姓名：
SUGIMURA, Yuki Lei Kashiwa
法定姓名：
Yuki Lei Kashiwa Sugimura 
議員（內陆）
www.yukileisugimura.com
yukilei.sugimura@gmail.com
(808)  870-8047
 Yuki Lei Sugimura  (由希 ·雷·杉村 )	是Kula的居民，以身為鮑德溫高中畢
業生而自豪，目前任職代表內陸 Residency  Area的毛伊島縣議會議員。 Sugimura 自
2017年起在議會任職，目前擔任議會副主席兼預算、財務和經濟發展委員會主席。
在加入議會之前， Sugimura 曾擔任美國參議員 Hirono和已故美國參議員 Akaka的毛
伊島實地代表專員。建立社區一直是 Yuki Lei的熱情所在。杉村負責推動過許多社
區活動，包括 Wailuku的第一星期五活動和毛伊島祭典。 Sugimura	透過每月在內陸
農貿市場的 「與由 Yuki Lei的談話」 系列活動不斷與她的社區交流。憑藉多年的經驗，
Yuki Lei致力於繼續為整個毛伊島縣提供服務。
2024選民指南
 普選普選73毛伊島縣拉奈島議會議員
選票姓名：
JOHNSON, Gabe
法定姓名：
Gabriel L. Johnson 
議員（拉奈島）
www.gabe4council.com
gabejohnsonwest111@gmail.com
(808)  559-0980
	 阿囉哈，我是毛伊縣拉奈島的議會議員 Gabe Johnson  (蓋比 ‧ 強森 )。懇請
您在我們在這個前所未有的躍進時代中支持我。擔任議會議員期間，我制定優先考
慮長期居民的法案並平抑房價，為了實現居住正義而努力。我們縣的生活成本一直
在飆升。因此，我為低收入者免費提供縣內公車服務，並為所有人免費提供夏季和
冬季 PALS。我持續支援服務弱勢團體的非營利組織， 並制定法案來幫助我們的農民、
勞工和最需要幫助的人。我是保護環境的強力權益維護者，並對於能繼續為我的社
區服務感到自豪。請瀏覽 www.gabe4council.com 以了解更多資訊。謝謝。
2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
74毛伊島縣摩洛凱島議會議員
選票姓名：
PELE, John
法定姓名：
John P. Tau Tau Pele 
議員（摩洛凱）
johnpele.com
aloha@johnpele.com
(808)  658-5114
	 阿囉哈，我堅守在提供服務和志工服務的崗位上，持續為我們的社會努
力打拼，並且我希望使用符合常理的方法來確保我們的居民能負擔得起住房。我和
我的妻子 Nani (娜妮 )	一直住在摩洛凱島西區，我們在那養育我們唯一的女兒，她
和許多年輕一代一樣，由於難以負擔的住房選項所導致的高昂生活成本，最終選擇
離開夏威夷。然而，我們仍然希望有一天能看到後代子孫在這裡長大。除了作為一
名擁有 18年經驗的企業主之外， 我還擔任顧問， 專注在經濟適用住房和鄉村專案上，
我不停地學習並尋找全新且獨特的合作方式，藉此提高效率並為當地家庭提供住房
選擇。我正在競選毛伊島縣議會的摩洛凱島席位，懇請您考慮支持我並投下神聖的
一票。謝謝
選票姓名：
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, Keani
法定姓名：
Keani  Rawlins-Fernandez 
議員（摩洛凱）
votekeani.com
kokuakeani@gmail.com
(808)  351-0263
	 熱烈阿囉哈！我是 Keani Rawlins-Fernandez  (基尼‧羅林斯－費南德茲 )，
摩洛凱島人， 也是兩個孩子的母親。我的孩子激發了我對提高家園生活品質的熱情，
讓我們能為子孫後代創造比現在更好的生活環境。我是摩洛凱島高中的畢業生，擁
有專攻環境法和夏威夷原住民法的法律學位，以及工商管理碩士學位。在議會的這
三個任期中， 我很榮幸能在克服困難的同時與您並肩工作， 讓我們的社區更具韌性。
如果能繼續為毛伊縣的人民繼續服務，確保我們社區的聲音能被聽見，並有公共決
策幫助我們保護土地並減輕居民的生活負擔，我將備感榮幸。我期待著我們繼續攜
手同行。
2024選民指南
 普選普選
75可愛島縣議會議員
選票姓名：
APILADO, Abe, Jr. (Aba-G)
法定姓名：
Abraham F. Apilado Jr
議會議員
a.apilado74@gmail.com
(808)  720-7560
	 大家好，我是 Abraham  F. Apilado  Jr. (小亞伯拉罕 ‧ F‧ 阿皮拉多 )，我正在競
選可愛島縣議會議員。身為一個父親和顧家的男人，我了解強大的社區對子孫後
代的重要性。憑藉公開演講的天賦和堅持正義的信念，我為我們的社區帶來了獨
特的聲音。作為西太平洋區域漁業管理委員會顧問小組的成員，我維護者目前和
未來的漁民的權益。我向遊客和當地人介紹我們的漁業， 強調適當的照顧和永續性。
可愛島和我們的人民的真誠熱愛促使我致力於保護我們的生活方式。我是土生土
長的男孩， 隨時準備為我們的社區服務， 確保居民的聲音得到傾聽和尊重。我愛你，
可愛島，我希望在即將到來的選舉年代表您。謝謝
選票姓名：
BULOSAN, Addison
法定姓名：
Addison C. Bulosan 
議會議員
www.addisonbulosan.com
addisonbulosan@gmail.com
(808)  652-1442
	 我在可愛島出生長大，並於 2013年大學畢業後回到家鄉，擔任脊椎矯正
療法醫生。十多年來，我透過私人診所和社區不同部門的各種非營利委員會進行社
區服務。有了私人和非營利領域研究永續解決方案的經驗，我發現我們能做到正
向的系統性改革。我於 2022年當選為縣議會議員，我正在尋求連任，以繼續保護
當地的勞工家庭、 降低生活成本並為我們的成功奠定未來的勢頭。我代表我的家人、
我的妻子 Nikki (尼琪 )	和我們剛出生的 Kīla`a  (琪拉雅 )，感謝您對改善我們社區的
承諾，我們恭請您投我一票。
選票姓名：
CARVALHO, Bernard P., Jr.
法定姓名：
Bernard P. Carvalho Jr.
議會議員
carvalhob003@hawaii.rr.com
(808)  635-7489
	 我正在競選連任可愛島縣議會議員。在擔任過公務員二十三年、本島的
前任市長十年、現任議會議員四年過後，我有著豐富的知識和經驗，在為我們整
個島嶼社區做出決策時，我將繼續分享這些知識和經驗。我期待著繼續努力工作，
為我們的島嶼之家持續提供支援，以確保從 Keiki (孩童 )	到Kupuna  (祖父母 )	的所
有人都能過著安全健康的生活方式。身為現任規劃委員會主席，我期待東可愛島發
展計畫的啟動，並持續支持目前正在進行的所有全島計畫。平價住宅、備災和道路
維護需要持續的支援和行動。 請投給公認具備敬業領導風格的 Bernard  Carvalho  Jr (小
伯納德 ‧ 卡瓦略 )。
選票姓名：
COWDEN, Felicia
法定姓名：
Felicia Eileen Cowden 
議會議員
feliciacowden.com
feliciacowden@gmail.com
(808)  652-4363
	 阿囉哈，我期盼能第四度擔任可愛島縣議會議員。 「以人為本」依然是我
的座右銘和第一優先要務，我會花時間傾聽、前往您所在城鎮、瞭解目前所面臨的
挑戰，並與社群和選民攜手制定可行解決方案。升級我們的基礎建設，能夠更容易
提供住房需求並加強我們的企業實力，從而在快速變化的世界中變得更加自力更
生， 這一點至關重要。我們需要一同獲得賦權， 保留我們珍貴的多元遺產文化智慧。
提升生活品質、選擇自由和制定更龐大的危險管理策略，對我來說非常重要。我在
工程、商業、教育的教育背景和調解、鄰里農業、經濟和媒體方面的的義工經驗有
助於加強我的理解能力。我很感謝能夠成為住在 Kilauea的母親和祖母。議會是我
唯一投注的焦點所在，並履行全心全意付出的的承諾。謝謝您考慮讓我擔任您的代
表。2024 選民指南 競選公職類型
普選普選
76可愛島縣議會議員
選票姓名：
CUMMINGS, Sherri
法定姓名：
Sherri  Cummings 
議會議員
malamaanahola.sc@gmail.com
(808)  635-2085
	 阿囉哈，我非常榮幸能在可愛島縣與尼豪島縣議會爭取一席席位。我們
的家族包括我在內已有七代很幸運能把可愛島當作自己的永遠家園。我保護我們的
孩子和長者、社區，以及擔起自然和文化資源和實踐的責任，這些使命使我積極
採取行動並取得亮眼成果，從而保護可愛島和尼豪島的未來。我是 Sherri Cummings  
(雪莉 ·卡明斯 )，Kanaka本土女性，懇請能代表您的心聲在縣議會重新出發。我受
到長者的啟發，並承諾會維護先祖的榮譽，懇請您認真考慮我，並投票給我。您
可以造訪 www.cummingsforcouncil.org ，深入了解我的背景資歷。我鼓勵您寄信至
pikakecummings1@gmail.com ，隨時與我聯絡。以謙卑和愛的心， Sherri Cummings  (雪
莉·卡明斯 )	敬上
選票姓名：
DECOSTA, Billy D.
法定姓名：
Bill D. DeCosta 
議會議員
billyndrena@hawaii.rr.com
(808)  639-8533
	 可愛島與 Ni’ihau，阿囉哈，我是 Billy DeCosta  (比利‧迪寇斯塔 )。懇請您
惠賜一票，支持我的連任參選。我深深紮根在我們美麗的島嶼上，結婚 27年並養
育著 3個兒子。我過去兩屆任期的施政成績是有目共睹。我很自豪自己能夠參與並
徹底修改農業財產稅法的第 2875號法案，該法案援助農民和牧場主人。我起草並
協助制定《第 2910號法案》 ，使我們的縣能夠向獲救的遊客收取適當費用。我協助
制定了《第 2913號法案》 ，以增收我們世界級的 Wailua高爾夫球場的非居民 /居民
的高爾夫球費。我目前正在與 Rapozo主席聯手合作制定《第 2919號法案》 ，這是一
項農地客房法案，將增加農地 /CPR土地上的住房密度。我目前正投注心力制定防
洪與防火法案，以確保土地所有者負起適當的責任。
選票姓名：
HOLLAND, Fern Anuenue
法定姓名：
Fern A. Holland 
議會議員
votefern.com
votefern@gmail.com
(808)  634-6242
	 我畢生投注在社區的心血以及對社會正義和環境的承諾，會是我競選縣
議會的動力。我在 Kapahi出生長大，我的家人和許多兒時朋友就跟我情況相同，
目前努力維持收支平衡並照顧家人。在做出為可愛島建立更美好未來的決定時，我
竭盡所能為當地家庭而戰，同時尊重這個島嶼獨特的歷史和文化，並且正視我們在
經濟上所遇到的困難。我知道我可以成為我們社區強而有力的權益倡導者和心聲，
而且我自認為我的生活經歷、教育、分析能力、配合能力和良好溝通能力，這些特
點將有利於可愛島縣議會的工作進展並成為其中的動力，協助做出周全且公平的決
定，從而改善可愛島及其居民的生活。有關更多資訊，請造訪 votefern.com 。
選票姓名：
KAGAWA, Ross
法定姓名：
Ross K. Kagawa 
議會議員
kagawar004@hawaii.rr.com
(808)  635-1605
	 我是 Ross Kagawa  (羅斯 ·香川 )，以結婚 31年的丈夫身分感到自豪，我有
兩名女兒和三名孫女，都住在可愛島 	。我是名退休教師和前會計師，擁有夏威夷
大學馬諾阿分校會計工商管理學士學位和曼納德大學教育學士學位。我開始從政時
的目標是為普通勞工家庭發聲。現在，有了十多年的經歷之後，這個目標仍然堅定
不移。鑑於目前的經濟狀況，可愛島縣議會比以往任何時候都更需要優先解決可負
擔住房庫存不足的問題，讓我們當地的家庭能夠更輕鬆地在可愛島居住。如有任何
問題或疑慮，請隨時與我聯絡，為可愛島人民服務是我的榮幸。2024選民指南
 普選普選77可愛島縣議會議員
選票姓名：
KANESHIRO, Arryl J.
法定姓名：
Arryl J. Kaneshiro 
議會議員
arrylkaneshiro@gmail.com
(808)  652-5216
	 我競選可愛島縣議會是因為我關心可愛島，也關心它的未來。我將提供
我的商業和會計頭腦、在委員會擔任預算主席八年的經驗、以及其中的四年的委員
會主席的經驗、我對社區服務的承諾以及我來自家庭、老師、導師和社區塑造的
價值觀和原則。我在本地成長的經歷使我相信我是代表可愛島和尼豪島人民的合
適人選， 因為我是努力工作的可愛島普通居民， 希望為自己和家人創造最好的生活。
如果您能在即將到來的選舉中投票給我，我將深感榮幸。
選票姓名：
KEAHIOLALO, W. Butch
法定姓名：
William Butch Keahiolalo 
議會議員
butchkeahiolalo@gmail.com
(808)  635-0388
 Butch Keahiolalo  (布奇 ·凱希奧拉羅 )	是一名致力為社區努力的一份子，正
在競選縣議會。身為可愛島的一名前教師、企業主和退休消防員，他了解投資年輕
人、為居民提供經濟機會以及確保社區安全和福祉的重要性。 Butch (布奇 )	的核心
價值指引著他的決策，確保他代表我們社區所有成員的最大利益。如獲當選，他承
諾傾聽社區的需求、與社區領導人合作，並繼續努力使可愛島成為我們居民可以負
擔得起的居住地點並繁榮和養家糊口的地方。 Butch (布奇 )	感謝他的家人、朋友和
社區的支持。
選票姓名：
KUALII, KipuKai
法定姓名：
KipuKai L.P. Kualii 
議會議員
kipukai.kualii@gmail.com
(808)  652-3684
	 阿羅哈，大家！我目前擔任議會副主席、住房和政府間關係委員會主席
以及金融和經濟發展委員會副主席。我也是全國縣協會 	(NACo)	委員會的其中一位
夏威夷代表。我在政府、工會、非營利組織和社區組織擁有近四十年的工作經驗。
在這段時間裡，我展現出自己勤奮、值得信賴、深思熟慮的特質。我也同時展示我
對公共服務的奉獻精神、我在立法政策方面的經驗、我在預算上的強項、我對問
題的理解以及我總是做好功課、認真傾聽和協作工作的承諾。最重要的是，我深
愛Kaua`i和Ni`ihau，並且一心一意地帶來改變！懇請您將七張選票中的一票投給
我。也請至少投給我們四到五名候選人，強化和發展我們的代議制民主。萬分感
謝！！！
選票姓名：
NELSON, Jacquelyn (Jakki)
法定姓名：
Jacquelyn N. Nelson 
議會議員
nelson5599@twc.com
(808)  631-8225
	 未遞交任何聲明2024 選民指南 
 普選普選78可愛島縣議會議員
選票姓名：
RAPOZO, Mel
法定姓名：
Melvin F. Rapozo 
議會議員
www.melforcouncil.org
melrapozo@gmail.com
(808)  645-0243
	 我正在尋求連任可愛島縣議會議員的機會，因為我相信正向變革的力量，
以及政府的力量能成為改善人民生活的潛力。我的承諾最初來自心中最真摯的願
景， 為的是解決社會所面臨的緊迫問題。我在目睹許多個人和家庭所面臨的挑戰後，
受到啟發希望能踴躍提導促進包容、公平和進步的政策。我在社區服務方面累積
的經驗和對合作的奉獻精神，將使我能夠改善分歧情況，並努力尋求造福每個人
的解決方案。並非我的個人野心驅使我這麼做，而是深深受到內心的責任感推動，
期盼能為社會福祉付出一己貢獻。透過競選公職，我期盼能帶來新穎觀點、透明的
溝通管道，以及持續為公眾利益服務付出我的堅定奉獻。
選票姓名：
THOMAS, Bart
法定姓名：
Bart J. Thomas 
議會議員
Bart@voteforbartkauai.com
(808)  635-8466
 Bart J Thomas  Bart J Thomas  (巴特 ‧ 湯姆斯 )	可愛島縣無黨派	 (808)635-8466 ，
電子郵件 - Bart@voteforbartKauai.com ，網站 -voteforbartkauai.com 	我致力於行動，力行
「行動勝於雄辯」的格言。新冠肺炎疫情期間，我一直擔任可愛島救世軍的忠實董
事會成員，為遊民族群提供必要的援助。自豪是一名可愛島社區內的的退伍軍人和
活躍成員，我致力於回饋社會。我籌辦的各種籌款活動獲得巨龐大的支持，大大改
善退伍軍人綜合中心，包括全新的太陽能屋頂和翻新的軍事博物館。我贊助了諸
如「勇士假期」之類的計畫， 讓受傷的退伍軍人能夠在靜謐環境中與家人重新連結，
遠離醫院就診的壓力。此外，我還支持兒童夢想基金會，為抵抗癌症病魔的兒童提
供夢想假期，並為他們及其家人提供歡樂和適當的休息時刻。
2024選民指南
 普選普選79
憲章修正案 2024 年夏威夷州憲法的擬議修正案
這些聲明由夏威夷州司法部提供
問題 #1: 刪除有關立法機關保留婚姻給異性伴侶的權力的具體條款
問題
是否應該修改州憲法，廢除立法機關將婚姻限定於異性伴侶的權力？
說明
擬議的修正案將刪除夏威夷州憲法中賦予立法機構保留婚姻給異性伴侶的權力的具體條
款。
「贊成」票的涵義
「贊成」票將刪除夏威夷州憲法中賦予立法機關保留婚姻給異性伴侶的權力的具體條款。
「反對」票的涵義
「反對」票將使夏威夷州憲法不會發生任何變化，並且夏威夷州憲法中賦予立法機關保
留婚姻給異性伴侶的權力的具體條款會保留不變。
空白票或超量票的含義
「空白」票不計為對該議題的「贊成」票或「反對」票。  相反地， 「空白」票僅計入投
票總數。  同樣地， 「超量」票不計為對該議題的「贊成」票或「反對」票。  相反地， 「超
量」票僅計入總票數。
為了使夏威夷州憲法擬議修正案獲得批准，本修正案在本議題的計票中必須得到多數票
(也就是，只有「贊成」票或「反對」票 )的批准。此外，該多數票必須至少佔選舉總
票數 (也就是「贊成」 、 「反對」 、 「空白」和「超量」票 )的百分之五十。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪
問 elections.hawaii.gov  或致電 
(808)  453-8683.2024 選民指南 普選普選
80憲章修正案2024 年夏威夷州憲法的擬議修正案
這些聲明由夏威夷州司法部提供
問題 #2: 使參議院司法任命的確認流程更加統一
問題
是否應修改夏威夷州憲法，使地區法院法官的任命和確認流程與最高法
院法官、 中級上訴法院和巡迴法院法官的任命和確認流程相同， 這將要求 ：
(1) 司法選拔委員會會向首席大法官提交一份不少於四名且不超過六名空
缺候選人的名單；
(2) 如果參議院未能在收到任命通知後三十天內拒絕任命，則地區法院任
命的人將自動被視為已任命；
(3) 如果參議院拒絕任命，首席大法官將在十天內從地區法院提名人名單
中再次任命；以及
(4) 在做出有效任命前應遵循任命和同意流程，否則，司法選拔委員會會
在未經參議院同意的情況下從被提名人名單中進行任命？
說明
現行州長對夏威夷最高法院、中級上訴法院和巡迴法院的司法任命的參
議院確認流程，有別於首席大法官對州地區法院的司法任命的參議院確
認流程。  夏威夷州憲法第 VI條第 3節修正案的目的是，使地區法院法
官的任命和參議院確認流程與其他法官和大法官的任命和參議院確認流
程相同。
根據參議院現行的地方法院法官確認流程，如果參議院在收到任命後
三十天內未同意，地方法院任命的人將自動被視為被拒絕。  由於夏威夷
州立法機構是一個兼職立法機構，參議院必須在全年間僅針對同意地區
法院的任命而召開特別會議。
本修正案將允許地區法院的任命，在參議院未能在三十天內駁回地區法
院的任命時，自動被視為同意。  這項變更將使參議院對所有州司法任命
的確認流程相同，無論是由州長還是首席大法官進行任命。
「贊成」票的涵義
「贊成」票將使地區法院法官的任命和確認流程與最高法院法官、中級上
訴法院和巡迴法院法官的任命和確認流程相同。
「反對」票的涵義
「反對」票將使夏威夷州憲法不發生任何變化，並且由首席大法官任命的
地區法院法官的確認流程，將有別於州長任命的最高法院法官、中級上
訴法院和巡迴法院法官的流程。空白票或超量票的含義
「空白」票不計為對該議題的「贊成」票或「反對」票。  相反地， 「空白」
票僅計入投票總數。  同樣地， 「超量」 票不計為對該議題的 「贊成」 票或 「反
對」票。  相反地， 「超量」票僅計入總票數。
為了使夏威夷州憲法擬議修正案獲得批准，本修正案在本議題的計票中
必須得到多數票 (也就是， 只有「贊成」票或「反對」票 )的批准。此外，
該多數票必須至少佔選舉總票數 (也就是「贊成」 、 「反對」 、 「空白」和「超
量」票 )的百分之五十。
2024選民指南
 普選普選812024 年Hawai'i 縣憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由夏威夷縣企業法律顧問辦公室提供
問題 #1: 縣議會席位空缺
問題
是否應修訂《夏威夷縣憲章》 ，以規定在正式選舉某人填補下一屆議會席
位後但縣議會出現或存在空缺時，應由正式選舉的繼任者在未屆滿任期
的剩餘時間內進行填補？
說明
本提案澄清，當縣議會出現空缺時，剩餘議員的多數應通過決議任命繼
任者，以完成未屆滿的剩餘任期。  此外，本憲章還增加了新的規定，要
求議會由已選出但尚未就職的人填補空缺。  例如，如果議會議員在選舉
後的新任期開始之前辭職，並且已正式選出繼任者，則議會將需要任命
正式選出的繼任者以完成未屆滿的剩餘任期。  擬議的修正案還規定，填
補空缺的議會議員的剩餘任期不適用於《夏威夷縣憲章》第 3-2節規定
的任期限制。
問題 #2: 市長任命各部門負責人
問題
是否應修改《夏威夷縣憲章》 ，要求市長在每次市長任期開始後 30天內
任命部門負責人，並在市長任期內出現任何職位空缺時在 60天內任命部
門負責人？
說明
本提案規定了市長在就職後和出現職位空缺時任命部門負責人的最後期
限。問題 #3: 政府費用委員會的任期
問題
是否應修改《夏威夷縣憲章》 ，將政府費用委員會委員的任期從十一個月
延長至二十二個月，並將委員會遞交報告的截止日期從任命後十一個月
延長至任命後二十個月？
說明
本提案將政府費用委員會委員的任期從十一個月延長至二十二個月。  如
果獲得批准，委員會委員的任期將在市長任期開始後十八個月開始，持
續二十二個月。  此外，修正案還將委員會遞交報告的截止日期從任命後
十一個月延長至任命後二十個月。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪問 
www.hawaiicounty.gov/charteramendments  
或致電 (808)  961-8255.
2024 選民指南 普選普選
82憲章修正案 2024 年Maui 縣憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由毛伊縣企業法律顧問部門提供
問題 #1: 薪資委員會
問題
是否應修改憲章，要求薪資委員會判定民選官員和任命的總監和副總監的「薪資」而不
是「薪酬」 ，以保持與夏威夷州憲法的一致性，並消除財政障礙，透過核銷差旅費用等
福利來創造平權？
說明
目前，毛伊縣修訂憲章第 17章第 8條規定，毛伊縣薪資委員會「應確定該縣所有部門
的民選官員和任命的總監和副總監的薪酬」 。 (已加入強調顯示 )。  夏威夷州憲法第 XVI
條第 3.5節和其他縣憲章的相關規定使用「薪資」一詞，而不是「薪酬」一詞。  本修
正案意圖澄清，毛伊縣薪資委員會僅應設定民選官員和任命的總監和副總監的薪資，而
不是「薪酬」 ， 「薪酬」可以更廣泛地解釋為包括其他福利，例如居住在拉奈島或摩洛凱
且必須前往毛伊島擔任職務的官員或任命人員的差旅費用。  其他此類福利將由市議會
或市長管理。
「贊成」票的涵義
「贊成」票代表著薪資委員會將決定毛伊縣民選官員以及任命的總監和副總監的薪資。  
這不包括其他潛在的薪酬福利，例如居住在拉奈島或摩洛凱且必須前往毛伊島擔任職務
的官員和任命人員的差旅核銷，這些福利將由市議會或市長管理。
「反對」票的涵義
「反對」票代表著薪資委員會將繼續判定毛伊縣民選官員和任命的總監和副總監的「薪
酬」 ，其中可能包括薪資以外的福利。
空白票或超量票的含義
在判定該議題的大多數選民是否投票贊成通過時，空白票或超量票將不會被計算在內。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪問 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov  或致電 
(808)   270-7749.2024選民指南
 普選普選832024 年Maui 縣憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由毛伊縣企業法律顧問部門提供
問題 #2: 道德委員會的獨立工作人員配置
問題
是否應修訂憲章，並於 2025 年7月1日生效，以授權毛伊縣道德委員會僱用獨立工作
人員？
說明
毛伊縣道德委員會目前沒有自己的獨立全職工作人員。  反而是，道德委員會被指派了
一名副企業法律顧問和一名秘書，兩人均受僱於企業法律顧問部，並且兩人均承擔與代
表道德委員會的工作無關的各種其他職責。  此外，憲章將道德委員會的多項權力授予
委員會本身，而不是授予其工作人員。  本修正案將允許道德委員會僱用自己的獨立工
作人員，並授權工作人員採取某些行動，包括提供非正式的道德意見和建議、審查財務
揭露和說客報備，以及追究道德投訴。
「贊成」票的涵義
「贊成」票代表道德委員會將能夠僱用自己的獨立工作人員，這些工作人員可以承擔具
體職責，包括提供非正式的道德意見和建議、審查財務揭露和說客報備，以及追究道德
投訴。
「反對」票的涵義
「反對」票代表道德委員會將繼續由企業法律顧問部的員工組成，他們代表道德委員會
履行的職責受到限制。
空白票或超量票的含義
在判定該議題的大多數選民是否投票贊成通過時，空白票或超量票將不會被計算在內。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪問 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov  或致電 
(808)   270-7749.
2024 選民指南 普選普選
84憲章修正案2024 年Maui 縣憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由毛伊縣企業法律顧問部門提供
問題 #3: 董事會和委員會條款
問題
是否應修訂憲章，並於 2025 年7月1日生效，透過允許任命董事會和委員會成員連續
兩個完整任期或連續十年 (以較長者為準 )，最大幅度地整體降低董事會和委員會席位
空缺的風險，特別是為居住在人口較少地區的成員提供的專門席位？
說明
目前，毛伊縣憲章第 13-2(5) 節不允許董事會或委員會成員在任期結束後兩年內被任命
為同一董事會或委員會服務第二個完整任期。  本修正案將允許董事會或委員會成員被
任命服務連續兩個完整任期，或最多十年，以較長者為準。
「贊成」票的涵義
「贊成」票代表董事會或委員會的成員可以被任命為同一董事會或委員會連續服務第二
個完整任期。
「反對」票的涵義
「反對」票代表董事會或委員會的成員不可以被任命為同一董事會或委員會連續服務第
二個完整任期。
空白票或超量票的含義
在判定該議題的大多數選民是否投票贊成通過時，空白票或超量票將不會被計算在內。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪問 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov  或致電 
(808)   270-7749.
2024選民指南
 普選普選85憲章修正案 2024 年Kaua'i 縣憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由可愛島縣企業法律顧問辦公室提供
修正案 1：與警察委員會調查相關。
問題
警察委員會報告書面調查結果的 90天窗口期是否應從委員會收到調查報告時開始計
算？
目的
當公眾對警察局或其成員提出指控時，該憲章修正案將為警察委員會提供足夠的時間進
行徹底調查。
背景
憲章 (可愛島縣憲章第 11.03.C. 節)目前規定，警察委員會必須「接收、考慮和調查公
眾針對該部門或其任何成員的行為提出的指控，並在九十天內向警察局長提交調查結果
的書面報告。 」這段文字的語意不清楚，因為有些調查可能會需要超過 90天才能完成。
本修正案將澄清，委員會應在調查完成的 90天內向警察局長遞交調查結果的書面報告。
這項措施會將調查和報告分開，允許調查持續進行，直到將結果報告給委員會。該委員
會將有 90天的時間準備並向警察局長遞交報告。
修正案 2：與費用控制委員會報告相關。
問題
如果預期增加費用可以節省未來的費用或提高效率，費用控制委員會是否有權建議增加
費用？
目的
本修正案將使費用控制委員會，在建議提高政府效率和實現長期降低向政府提供的服務
的費用方面，具有更大的靈活性。
背景
縣費用控制委員會有權提出刪除計劃和服務並降低費用的措施建議 (可愛島縣憲章第
28.04 節)。該委員會得出的結論是，在某些情況下，增加支出可能會帶來長期效率或
省下費用。憲章的改變將為委員會提供額外的靈活性，以實現其降低政府費用的使命，
同時保持合理的公共服務水準。備註：委員會的任何建議在頒布前都需要得到縣議會和
市長的批准。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪
問 kauai.gov/Charter  或致電 
(808)  241-4881.2024 選民指南 普選普選86
2024 年Kaua'i 縣憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由可愛島縣企業法律顧問辦公室提供
修正案 3：有關於公共通道、開放空間和自然資源保護基金。
問題
縣的開放空間基金中是否可將最多 5%的資金用於維護本就由基金支付的土地、財產權
利或改善的設施？
目的
本憲章修正案意圖確保受公共使用、開放空間和自然資源保護基金保護的財產有資源提
供一些管理援助。
背景
本縣的公共使用、開放空間和自然資源保護基金 (可愛島縣憲章第 19.15.C. 節)主要意
圖是，為其標題中指定的目的獲取土地，確保公共使用、開放空間和保護自然資源。然
而，本縣在安排義工團體或非營利實體對財產和改善的設施進行長期維護和管理上碰到
困難。對於特別需要注意的生態和文化敏感專案的保護尤其如此。這項措施將允許基金
的一小部分用於援助管理工作。例如，基金可以用來購買木材或維護用品，以幫助義工
管理員解決他們可能無法籌集的費用。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪
問 kauai.gov/Charter  或致電 
(808)  241-4881.2024選民指南 普選普選872024 年Kaua'i 縣憲章的擬議修正案 2024 年Kaua'i 縣憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由可愛島縣企業法律顧問辦公室提供
修正案 4：與擔保債券相關。
問題
是否應修改憲章，以允許為特定或所有僱員購買保險以保護縣免受財務損失？
目的
本修正案將使縣能夠靈活地購買保險或擔保債券，對縣僱員進行承保並保護縣免受財務
損失或盜竊。
背景
可愛島縣憲章第 19.17 節目前規定，特定官員和員工必須受擔保債券保障。過去，擔保
債券提供財務擔保，防止與履行該席位的公務相關的損失或竊盜。然而，擔保債券在現
今可能不容易取得。保險可以以較低的成本為所有員工提供同等的保障。
修改第 19.17 節的一部分將使該縣能夠靈活地購買具有最佳承保範圍、福利和成本的保
單，無論是擔保債券、保險還是兩者兼而有之。本憲章修正案的目標是為本縣、所有員
工獲得最佳保單，並更好地管理整體成本。
修正案 5：與縣委員會和委員會中的當然青年職位相關。
問題
是否應修改憲章，在董事會和委員會中設立當然青年職位，並由可愛島的高中三年級或
四年級學生居民擔任？
目的
本修正案將允許可愛島學生透過擔任董事會和委員會的當然成員來學習政府和公民知
識。
背景
為了讓年輕人在董事會和委員會中有發言權，並為學生提供受教育的機會，本修正案將
通過在可愛島縣憲章第 23.02 節中新增新的 O小節，為高中三年級或四年級學生在董
事會和委員會中創造席位。
當然學生職位將由可愛島居民擔任。此類成員可以參加委員會討論，但不會投票，不計
入法定人數，也不會參加執行會議。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪
問 kauai.gov/Charter  或致電 
(808)  241-4881.2024 選民指南 普選普選
882024 年Honolulu 市憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由檀香山的市和郡企業法律顧問辦公室提供
問題 #1
問題
修訂後的市憲章是否應當重新修訂，要求市議會在每個財政年度的預算和資本計劃中 ,
在不必同時提高房地產稅稅率來資助撥款的情況下，將本市預估房地產稅收入的百分之
零點五，存入氣候復原力基金，用於支持旨在減輕氣候變遷影響、增強本市基礎設施和
社區的復原力以及促進可持續實踐的舉措和專案？
目前情況
目前沒有「氣候韌性基金」 。該資金旨在對減輕氣候變遷影響、增強本市基礎設施和社
區復原力，並促進可持續實踐的動議和項目提供支持；  該資金目前正接受審核，並由
Honolulu 市議會通過「行政運作預算」或「行政資本預算和計畫」進行年度資助。
如果提案通過
將設立一項「氣候韌性基金」 ，為與氣候變化有關的預防性、恢復性和教育性議案提供
資金，而資金來源是本市預估年度不動產稅收的百分之零點五。儘管如此，短語「不必
同時提高房地產稅稅率來資助撥款」不應被理解爲對 Honolulu 市議會在資助「氣候韌
性基金」同時增加不動產稅率的權力加以限制。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪問 
honoluluelections.us .
2024選民指南
 普選普選892024 年Honolulu 市憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由檀香山的市和郡企業法律顧問辦公室提供
問題 #2
問題
修訂後的市憲章是否應當重新修訂，以將應急管理部設立為本市行政部門的獨立機構，在市憲章
中為應急管理部分配一個單獨的章節，類似於分配給所有其他城市部門的章節；規定應急管理部
的所有職位，包括其總監和副總監，均須遵守公務員法；並規定應急管理部總監的公務員職位的
最低資格要求，並根據公務員法規定其他額外的最低資格？
目前情況
「市緊急事務管理署」 （ 「 DEM 」 ， 以前稱為 「民事防御局」 ） 目前直接隸屬於 「管理主任辦公室」 ， 但 《憲
章》並未像其他市政部門一樣分配自己的獨立章節。處理民事防御的公民咨詢委員會是一個單獨
機構，同樣直接隸屬於「管理主任辦公室」 。
DME 主任和副主任職位的選聘和留任應遵守公務員制度規定，即遵守擇優錄用原則。管理本市
公務員制度的 「人力資源部」 發布符合擇優錄用優原則的 DME 主任職位的最低資格標準。儘管 《憲
章》規定了主任職責，但並沒有規定該職位的最低資格標準。
如果提案通過
將重新安排《憲章》的「行政部門」章節，讓 DEM 與其他市政部門一樣，歸入自己的獨立章節，
而公民咨詢委員會將隸屬於 DEM 。這些變更不會影響現任 DEM 主任的任期（任職至 2025 年1
月1日 ）。
相應的《憲章》修訂案將生效，以確保 DEM 主任和副主任職位能夠繼續遵循公務員體制規則。
具體而言，這些修訂案將把 DEM 主任和副主任職位排除在薪資委員會職權範圍外（後者負責決
定部門正副領導的薪酬） ，也排除在公務員豁免情況之外（該豁免適用於所有其他獨立部門的正
副部長） 。
此外，還要對《憲章》進行修訂，以澄清 DEM 主任的職責，並增加其他職責，包括執行與緊急
事務管理有關的培訓、演習及公眾資訊計畫。最後， 《憲章》會將 DHR 的最低資格標準明確納入
DEM 主任職位，並強制加入必須在緊急事務管理、災難規畫，或公共安全服務管理方面有至少
五年的行政責任管理經驗，且其中必須至少兩年負責監督緊急事務管理或國土安全活動，或者兩
者兼有。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪問 
honoluluelections.us .
2024 選民指南 普選普選
902024 年Honolulu 市憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由檀香山的市和郡企業法律顧問辦公室提供
問題 #3
問題
是否應該對 《修訂版城市憲章》 進行修訂， 以設立一個 「海洋安全委員會」 ， 對 「海洋安全署」
的某些活動進行審核並提出建議，並海洋安全署署長進行任命？
目前情況
根據《修訂版城市憲章》第 4-202 節之授權，市長最近設立了海洋安全署（ 「 OSD 」），
作為一个獨立機構，獨立於緊急服務部門之外。 OSD 由一名海洋安全主任領導，後者
由市長任命，並可以被市長免職。
如果提案通過
該決議將對《憲章》進行修訂，在 OSD 內設立一個五人組成的海洋安全委員會，除其
他外事務外，其職權還包括對 OSD 年度預算提出建議；審查 OSD 的運作並提出改進
建議；對海洋安全局長的業績進行年度評估；  對公民針對 OSD 或其人員的投訴進行聽
證，並向 OSD 局長建議糾正措施；向市長和市議會提交有關 OSD 活動的年度報告。
此外， OSD 的「主任」職位將改為 OSD 「署長」 。 OSD  署長將由海洋安全委員會任命，
且只有在收到書面解職理由說明書並得到海洋安全委員會聽證機會後，才能被解職。由
市長任命的 OSD 主任將繼續任職至 2024 年12月31日，並繼續擔任 OSD 主任，直
至海洋安全委員會任命新署長為止。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪問 
honoluluelections.us .
2024選民指南
 普選普選91憲章修正案 2024 年Honolulu 市憲章的擬議修正案
這些聲明由檀香山的市和郡企業法律顧問辦公室提供
問題 #4
問題
是否應該對《市憲章修訂版》有關市議員薪金的規定進行修訂，將任何年度加薪幅度限
制在 5%以下，且任何變動必須與市政府集體談判單位的市僱員平均年薪變化掛鉤，  以
及取消市議會對自身加薪進行表決的授權？
目前情況
根據 《市憲章修訂版》 第 3-122 節， 薪資委員會 （ 「委員會」 ） 通過決議為某些市政府職位 （包
括市議會職位） 薪資進行確定。這些薪資必須根據 「對履行工作給予相應補償」 以及 「與
市政府其他雇員薪資保持合理關係」的原則加以確定。市議會可以接受或拒絕委員會決
議的任何部分，包括與議員自身薪資有關的任何部分。
如果提案通過
將對《憲章》進行修訂，要求委員會發布一份議員薪資確定決議，並另外發布一份其他
職位薪資確定決議。
關於市議員的薪資，日後任何漲幅上限均設定為每年 5％，且必須「實質上等於」本市
不同集體談判單位最新年薪變動的平均值。市議會不再有權接受或拒絕與議會自身薪資
有關的委員會決議。
有關這些擬議修正案的全文 , 請訪問 
honoluluelections.us .
聯絡我們
登記投票的相關資訊，
請聯絡您的縣選舉部門。
夏威夷縣 (808)  961-8277
毛伊縣 (808)  270-7749
可愛島縣 (808)  241-4800
Honolulu 市縣 (808)  768-3800
如需更多投票資訊，請聯絡選務辦公室。
電話號碼： (808)  453-VOTE  (8683)
免費電話： 1-800-442-VOTE  (8683)
TTY ：(808)  453-6150
免費 TTY ：1-800-345-5915
電子信箱： elections@hawaii.gov
網站： elections.hawaii.gov
選民指南選民指南20242024 夏威夷夏威夷一般資訊一般資訊

--- Text from PDF (https://digitalvoterguide.hawaii.gov/wp-content/themes/hawaii-elections/assets/pdf/general_digital_voter_guide_haw.pdf) ---
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō1
ALAKAʻI NO ALAKAʻI NO 
KA POʻE KOHO KA POʻE KOHO 
PĀLOKAPĀLOKA20242024  Hawaiʻi HawaiʻiLaulā Wale NōLaulā Wale Nō2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
202
HE MANAʻO A KA LUNA 
KOHO PĀLUKA
03
HE AHA KE ALAKAʻI NO KA 
POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA?
03
E HŌʻAILONA I KOU 
ʻALEMANAKA
03
HOʻOKĀINOA POʻE KOHO 
PĀLOKA
04
KOHO PĀLOKA MA KA LEKA
04
E HOOPAʻA I KĀU PĀLOKA 
LEKA
04
E HOʻI MAI I KĀU PĀLOKA 
LEKA
04
KA HANA ME KĀU PĀLOKA
04
E HOʻOKOLO I KĀU PĀLOKA
04
E NĀNĀ I NĀ HOPENA O KE 
KOHO PĀLOKAALAKAʻI NO 
KA POʻE KOHO 
PĀLOKA20242024  Hawaiʻi Hawaiʻi
AlohaHE MANAʻO A KA LUNA KOHO PĀLUKA  
Na ka pono o ka Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi, ke Keʻena Koho Pāloka, ua hauʻoli mākou e hōʻike 
i ke alakaʻi no ka poʻe koho pāloka 2024! He kumu waiwai kēia no ka poʻe koho pāloka o 
Hawaiʻi, ma muli o ke kau ʻia ʻana o ke kānāwai 115 i ka wā o ka ʻahaʻōlelo 2023. Mahalo i 
nā poʻe a pau no ke kākoʻo a kōkua ʻana i kāna hana ʻana.
Inā ua kāʻinoa ʻoe ke ʻano he kanaka koho pāloka, hiki iā ʻoe ke manaʻo e loaʻa kāu 
pāloka ma ka leka ma kahi o 18 mau lā ma mua o ka lā koho. E hōʻoia i ka loaʻa ʻana o kāu 
hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻana o ka poʻe koho i kēia manawa e hōʻoia i ka lawe pono ʻia ʻana o kāu 
pāloka. Inā ua neʻe a hoʻololi paha ʻoe i kāu helu leka mai ke koho pāloka i hala, pono ʻoe 
e hoʻololi i kāu kāinoa. Eia kekahi, he mea hoʻomanaʻo pono e loaʻa mai nā pāloka, ʻaʻole i 
hoʻopaʻa ʻia ma ka hola 7:00 PM ma ka lā koho.
E hōʻoiaʻiʻo ʻoe ua kūpaʻa mākou i ka mālama ʻana i nā koho pāloka palekana, paʻa, a 
maopopo no nā kamaʻāina o Hawaiʻi a mahalo mākou iā ʻoe no ke komo ʻana i ke kaʻina 
hana no ka lehulehu.
Me ka ʻoiaʻiʻo,
Scott T. Nago
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō3
04
NĀ KIKOWAENA KŌKUA 
KOHO PĀLOKA
05
KE KOHO PĀLOKA I 
HOʻONOA ʻIA
05
KE KĀLĀ E LILO AI NO KA 
PAIPAI KALAIʻĀINA
05
KOMIKINA KŪ I NĀ LULA 
MAIKAʻI
06
NĀ KOU MAU PONO PĀLOKA
06
KŌKUA ʻŌLELO
07
MĀHELE KOHO PĀLOKA 
KALANA
07
KĀHEA IĀ MĀKOU
08-78
NĀ ʻŌLELO O NĀ MOHO
79-91
NĀ HOʻOLOLI ʻŌLELO 
PĀKUʻI
HE AHA KE ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA?
Ua paʻi ʻia ke alakaʻi no ka poʻe koho pāloka e ka Mokuʻāina o Hawaiʻi, Keena Koho Pāloka no ka hōʻoia 
ʻana i loaʻa iā ʻoe ka ʻike e pili ana i ke kaʻina koho a me nā hoʻokūkū āu e koho pāloka ai. Aia i loko o ke 
alakaʻi ka ʻike e pili ana i ka hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻana o ka poʻe koho, nā lā koʻikoʻi, a me nā kumuwaiwai e like 
me ka hoʻokolo ʻana i kāu koho pāloka a me hāmeʻa no ke koho pāloka i hoʻonoʻa ʻia. Hoʻohui hou, ʻo ke 
Keʻena Koho Pāloka e hōʻuluʻulu i nā ʻōlelo a me nā kiʻi i waiho ʻia e nā moho e holo ana no ke keʻena.
Pehea i hoʻoʻuluʻulu ʻia ai nā ʻōlelo a me nā kiʻi?
Loaʻa i kēlā me kēia moho ka manawa e hāʻawi i kahi ʻōlelo pōkole a me ke kiʻi i ka wā e waiho ai lākou e 
alualu aku no ke kūlana. Pono ka ʻōlelo ma lalo o 150 mau huaʻōlelo, a hāʻawi ʻia nā moho i kēia alakaʻi: E 
mālama i kāu ʻōlelo ma ke ʻano he hōʻuluʻulu pōkole; e hāʻawi i kāu ʻike a maikaʻi; e noʻonoʻo i ka mea āu e 
makemake ai e hoʻokō inā koho ʻia; a pale aku i ka hoʻohewahewa ʻana i na hoa paio.
Hoʻopuka ʻia nā ʻōlelo a me nā kiʻi ma ke alakaʻi e like me ka hāʻawi ʻia e nā moho. E paʻi pū ʻia ka inoa 
pāloka o ka moho, inoa kū kānāwai, pili polikika, a me ka ʻike pili. Inā ʻaʻole hāʻawi ka moho i ka ʻōlelo a i 
ʻole ke kiʻi, e hōʻike ʻia ka huaʻōlelo “ʻAʻohe hōʻike i hoʻouna ʻia” a i ʻole “ʻAʻohe kiʻi i hoʻouna ʻia” e ʻike ʻia 
ma ka ʻaoʻao o kā lākou ʻike moho.
E HŌʻAILONA I KOU ʻALEMANAKA
2024 Koho wae moho wale nō
• ʻOkakopa 18: E ʻimi i kāu ʻeke balota no ka Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō e hoʻouna ʻia ma ka leka uila.
• ʻOkakopa 22: Wehe ʻia nā kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka pau ka lā koho no ka hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻana i ka 
poʻe koho a me ke koho pāloka e hele kino mai. E kipa iā elections.hawaii.gov no nā wahi, nā lā, a me nā 
hola.
• ʻOkakopa 28: Ka lā palena e hoʻopaʻa inoa no ke koho balota me ka palapala Koho Koho Balota no ka 
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō ma ka hola 4:30 PM.
• ʻOkakopa 29: Ka lā palena no ke noi ʻana i kahi balota haʻalele ma ka hola 4:30 PM.
• Nowemapa 5: Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō. Pono e loaʻa mai nā pāloka i koho ʻia ma ka hola 7:00 PM.
HOʻOKĀINOA POʻE 
KOHO PĀLOKA
ʻO wai ka mea hiki ke kāinoa 
no ke koho pāloka?
Pono ʻoe he kamaʻāina ʻAmelika, he kamaʻāina 
Hawaiʻi, a ma kahi o 18 mau makahiki. Inā ʻoe he 
16 mau makahiki ma lalo o ka liʻiliʻi, hiki iā ʻoe ke 
hoʻopaʻa inoa mua e koho pāloka a e hoʻopaʻa inoa 
ʻia ʻoe i ka wā e piha ai ʻoe i 18 mau makahiki. 
He aha ke ʻano wikiwiki e hoʻopaʻa inoa?
Pūnaewele! Me kāu laikini kalaiwa kaʻa Hawaiʻi a i 
ʻole Mokuʻāina Hawaiʻi ID, e hoʻopaʻa inoa ma kahi 
o nā minuke ma elections.hawaii.gov. Inā ʻaʻohe ou 
ID Hawaiʻi, loaʻa kahi palapala noi e hiki ke paʻi ʻia 
ma ke kaha pūnaewele a i ʻole ma nā hale leka a me 
nā hale waihona puke. 
Pehea wau e haʻi aku ai i koʻu 
pili ʻana i ka hui ʻaoʻao?
E ʻike ʻoe i ka wā e hoʻopaʻa inoa ai ʻoe e koho 
pāloka, ʻaʻole ʻoe e noi ʻia no kāu hui ʻaoʻao 
polikika. ʻAʻole ia he kuhihewa. ʻAʻole hōʻike ka poʻe 
koho pāloka o Hawaiʻi i kahi hui polikika i ka wā e 
kāinoa ai e koho pāloka.Pono au e kāinoa e koho pāloka 
i kēlā me kēia makahiki?
ʻAʻole, ʻaʻole pono ʻoe e kāinoa e koho pāloka ma 
mua o kēlā me kēia koho pāloka. ʻO ʻoe naʻe ke 
kuleana no ka mālama ʻana i kahi hoʻopaʻa inoa o 
kēia manawa. Inā hoʻololi kou inoa, hale noho, a i 
ʻole ka leka ma waena o nā koho pāloka, pono ʻoe e 
hōʻano hou i kāu hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻana o ka poʻe koho. 
Ke hilinaʻi nei nā limahana koho i kāu hoʻopaʻa 
inoa ʻana o ka poʻe koho i kēia manawa e ʻike i ka 
pāloka e hāʻawi ai iā ʻoe a me kahi e hoʻouna aku 
ai. E hoʻomaʻamaʻa i ka nānā ʻana i kāu palapala 
inoa koho ma ka hoʻomaka ʻana o kēlā me kēia 
makahiki koho! E nānā a hōʻano hou i kāu kāinoa 
ma elections.hawaii.gov.
Ma hea wau e koho pāloka ai?
Hele mai kāu pāloka iā ʻoe! Ma ka mokuʻāina ʻo 
Hawaiʻi ʻo ke koho pāloka ʻo maō ka leka, ʻo ia hoʻi, 
ma ke ʻano he koho pāloka, e loaʻa koke iā ʻoe kāu 
pāloka ma ka leka i kēlā me kēia koho pāloka. Me ke 
koho pāloka ʻana ma ka leka, ʻaʻole hiki kā mākou 
koho pāloka i ka lā hoʻokahi wale nō, e hoʻomaka 
maoli ana kāu puka koho i ka wā i hiki mai ai kāu 
pāloka i kāu pahu leka. Loaʻa iā ʻoe nā koho ʻē aʻe 
i wehewehe ʻia ma kēia alakaʻi. No ka laʻana, hiki 
iā ʻoe ke koho e hele kino mai ma kahi kikowaena 
kōkua koho pāloka me nona hāmeʻa no ke koho 
pāloka i hoʻonoʻa ʻia.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
4
KOHO PĀLOKA MA KA LEKA
Eia ka mea e pono ai ʻoe e ʻike e pili ana i ke koho pāloka ʻana ma ka leka.
ʻO kāu pāloka leka:
• Hoʻouna aku ʻia i kāu helu wahi maō ka leka
• Hiki mai 18 lā ma mua o ka lā koho
• Pono kāu pūlima e helu ʻia
• Pono e loaʻa mai ma ka hola 7:00 PM ma ka lā koho
He aha inā ʻaʻole i loaʻa iaʻu kaʻu pāloka?
Inā ʻaʻole i loaʻa iā ʻoe kāu pāloka, e hoʻokaʻaʻike i kāu Māhele Koho Kalana a na lākou e hāʻawi iā ʻoe i kahi 
pāloka pani.
He aha inā hewa wau i kaʻu koho pāloka?
Inā hewa ʻoe, kuhi hewa, a hōʻino paha i kāu pāloka, e noi i kahi pāloka pani mai kāu Māhele Koho 
Kalana mai.
Hiki iaʻu ke hoʻololi i koʻu manaʻo ma hope o koʻu hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ka pāloka?
ʻAʻole. Ke hoʻihoʻi ʻoe i kāu pāloka koho a loaʻa ʻia e ka Māhele Koho Kalana, ua manaʻo ʻia ʻo ia ka 
hoʻoholo, ʻaʻole hiki iā ʻoe ke loaʻa i kahi pāloka hou.
Pehea e hiki ai iaʻu ke koho pāloka inā haʻalele au i ke koho pāloka?
Inā haʻalele ʻoe i ke koho pāloka, hiki iā ʻoe ke noi i kahi koho pāloka e hoʻouna ʻia i kahi helu wahi. E 
hoʻopiha wale i kahi palapala noi pāloka haʻalele a hōʻike i kahi āu e makemake ai e hoʻouna aku ʻia 
kāu pāloka.
E HOOPAʻA I KĀU PĀLOKA LEKA
1. Ma mua o ke koho pāloka, e nānā i nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua o ka pāloka. No ke koho ʻana pāloka, e hoʻopōʻeleʻele 
i nā pahu āu e koho ai me kahi peni ʻeleʻele a uliuli paha.
2. Ma hope o ke koho ʻana i ka pāloka, e kau i kāu pāloka ma ka lima huna. A laila, e kau i ka lima huna i 
loko o ka wahī hoʻihoʻi.
3. Heluhelu i ka ʻōlelo hōʻoia a pūlima i ka wahī hoʻihoʻi. Pono ʻoe e pūlima i ka wahī hoʻihoʻi no ka helu 
ʻana i kāu pāloka.
E HOʻI MAI I KĀU PĀLOKA LEKA
Ma ka Leka:  E kau i kāu koho pāloka ma ka leka me ka hoʻohana ʻana i ka wahī hoʻihoʻi me ka helu wahi 
a me ka hōʻailona uku leka ma luna o ia i hoʻouna mua ʻia. E noʻonoʻo i nā manawa hāʻawi ka hui USPS e 
hōʻoia i ka loaʻa ʻana e ka lā palena.
Ma ka pahu hāʻule pāloka: E hoʻokuʻu i kāu koho pāloka ma kahi pahu koho pāloka ma kou kalana. E kipa 
iā elections.hawaii.gov no nā wahi, nā lā, a me nā hola.
Pono e loaʻa nā pāloka i koho ʻia e ko ʻoukou Māhele Koho Kalana ma ka hola 7:00 PM ma ka lā koho e 
helu ʻia.
KA HANA ME KĀU PĀLOKA
Ke loaʻa mai kāu wahī hoʻihoʻi, nānā ʻia ka helu kaha pāʻālua ma luna. ʻO ka helu kaha pāʻālua kū hoʻokahi 
e hiki ai i nā luna ke nānā i ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana o kāu pāloka a pale i kekahi mai ke koho pāloka ʻoi aku ma mua 
o hoʻokahi.
Hoʻohālikelike ʻia ka pūlima ma ka wahī me ka pūlima ma kāu moʻolelo koho. Inā ʻaʻole hiki i nā luna ke 
hōʻoia i kahi pāʻani, e hoʻomaopopo ʻia ʻoe e hoʻoponopono i ka pilikia i loko o ʻelima mau lā ʻoihana ma 
hope o ke koho pāloka.
Inā hoʻokō pono kāu pūlima, lawe paʻa ʻia kāu pāloka i ke kikowaena helu. Ma ke kikowaena helu, ua 
hoʻoponopono ʻia kāu koho pāloka ma o nā mīkini helu helu pāloka.E HOʻOKOLO I 
KĀU PĀLOKA
E kāinoa no ka loaʻa mai ʻana i nā mākaʻikaʻi 
hoʻokolo pāloka ma o ka kikokikona, ka leka 
uila, a i ʻole ke kelepona leo ma elections.
hawaii.gov. Hōʻike ka lawelawe iā ʻoe i hea 
kāu pāloka a hoʻouna i nā mea hoʻomanaʻo 
koʻikoʻi me kahi makaʻala i ka wā e kokoke mai 
ana ka lā hoʻihoʻi pāloka.
E NĀNĀ I NĀ HOPENA 
O KE KOHO PĀLOKA
Ma hope o ka hola 7:00 PM ma ka lā koho, 
hiki iā ʻoe ke hoʻomaka e nānā i nā hopena 
koho ma elections.hawaii.gov. E hoʻomau ʻia 
nā hopena a hiki i ka helu ʻia ʻana o nā pāloka 
kūpono a pau i loaʻa i ka lā palena.
Hiki iā ʻoe ke manaʻo i ka hoʻokuʻu ʻana o 
nā hopena:
• Hoʻokuʻu ʻia ka hōʻike 1 ma hope o ka pani 
ʻana o nā kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka i ka 
lā koho.
• Hoʻokuʻu ʻia ka hōʻike 2 ma 10:30 PM ma 
ka lā koho.
• Hoʻokuʻu ʻia ka hōʻike e pili ana i nā hopena 
kauhope o ka lā koho i ka wā i hoʻopaʻa ʻia 
ai nā pūlima ma luno o nā wahī a pau e ka 
Māhele Koho Pāloka a mālama ʻia ma ke 
kikowaena helu.
• Hoʻokuʻu ʻia ka hōʻike e pili ana i nā hopena 
kauhope koho pāloka ma hope o 5 mau lā 
ʻoihana no ke au hāoʻo o nā pūlima o ka 
poʻe koho.
NĀ KIKOWAENA KŌKUA 
KOHO PĀLOKA
No ka lā hoʻokahi o ke kāinoa ʻana a me ke 
koho pāloka ʻana, a me ka wahi me hāmeʻa no 
ke koho pāloka i hoʻonoʻa ʻia.
E kipa iā elections.hawaii.gov no nā wahi, nā lā, 
a me nā hola.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō5
KE KOHO PĀLOKA I HOʻONOA ʻIA
Loaʻa nā hāmeʻa no ke koho pāloka i hoʻonoʻa ʻia. E noʻonoʻo i ke ʻano koho pāloka i kūpono i kāu mau pono.
1. E koho ma ka hale me ka pāloka pepa.
• Hoʻouna leka ʻakomi.  Hiki pololei mai kāu ʻeke pāloka i kāu helu leka.
• Ua ʻae ʻia ʻoe e loaʻa i ke kōkua.  Inā pilikia ka nānā ʻana, ka māka ʻana, a me ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i kāu pāloka, hiki iā ʻoe ke noi i ke kōkua. Ua ʻae ʻia 
ʻoe e nīnau i kekahi āu e ʻoluʻolu ai e kōkua i ka heluhelu ʻana i kāu pāloka, e kaha i kāu mau koho, a e lilo i mea hōʻike inā ʻaʻole hiki iā ʻoe ke pūlima 
kūʻokoʻa i ka wahī hoʻihoʻi. ʻAʻole ʻae ʻia kāu mea hana a i ʻole kāu luna ʻuniona e kōkua.
• Hāʻawi ʻia ka wahī hoʻihoʻi mua me ke uku leka.  E hoʻihoʻi i kāu pāloka ma ka leka ma ka wahī hoʻihoʻi i hāʻawi ʻia. ʻAʻole koi ʻia ka uku leka 
hou aku.
No ke koho pāloka ma ka hale me ka pāloka pepa: Ma ke kāinoa ʻana e koho pāloka, e loaʻa koke iā ʻoe kahi pāloka leka i kēlā me kēia koho pāloka. 
ʻAʻole pono ke noi kaʻawale.
2. E koho pāloka ma ka home me kahi koho pāloka uila i hoʻonoʻa ʻia. Inā pilikia ʻoe i ka paʻi ʻana a ʻaʻole hiki iā ʻoe ke heluhelu i ka paʻi 
maʻamau, hiki iā ʻoe ke koho pāloka me ka hoʻohana ʻana i ka pāloka uila.
• ʻO ka hāʻawi leka uila maʻalahi. Hoʻouna aku paʻa ʻia kāu pāloka uila i kāu leka uila. ʻAʻole pili ka pāloka ponoʻī i ka pūnaewele a hoʻouna wale ʻia 
ma ka uila.
• Kūpono me nā mea kōkua pilikino. E hoʻohana i kāu mau mea kōkua ma ka home e nānā a kaha i kāu pāloka kūʻokoʻa. Ua kūpono ka pāloka uila 
me nā polokalamu kele nui a pau, ka nui o nā mea hana (me nā kelepona hāmeʻa akamai a me nā hāmeʻa akamai ʻē aʻe), a me nā mea kōkua pilikino.
No ke koho pāloka me kahi pāloka uila i hoʻnoʻa ʻia hiki ke loaʻa:  Ke hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻoe e koho pāloka, e nānā i ke koho no ke noi ʻana i kahi pāloka 
uila a hōʻoia ʻoe e hoʻokō i nā pono. Pono ʻoe e hāʻawi i kāu leka uila.
3. E koho pāloka ma ke kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka me ka hoʻohana ʻana i kahi mea hōʻailona koho pāloka.  Inā ʻaʻole hiki iā 
ʻoe ke hoʻopaʻa lima i kahi pāloka me kahi peni, e kipa i kahi kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka e hoʻohana i ka mea hiki ke hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻia, ʻo Verity 
Touch Writer.
• Nā hiʻohiʻona hiki ke hoʻonui ʻia. ʻAe ka Verity Touch Writer iā ʻoe e koho kūʻokoʻa i kāu mau koho pāloka ma o kahi kikowaena uila. Loaʻa nā 
hiʻohiʻona o ka hāmeʻa i kahi kuʻina lolouila no ka papakaumaka hoʻopāpā nui, mīkini papapihi me nā huila wiliwili no ka neʻe ʻana i ka pāloka, ka 
hoʻohālikelike ʻana me nā hoʻololi maʻalahi a me nā mea "sip and puff", hiki ke hoʻololi ʻia ka nui kikokikona a me ka ʻokoʻa pale no ka hoʻonui ʻana i 
ka ʻike, a me ka hiki ke apo lohe no ke komo leo.
• Loaʻa nā hāmeʻa no ke koho pāloka i hoʻonoʻa ʻia hiki i ka moku'āina.  Ua lako nā kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka a pau me ka Verity Touch Writer. 
Wehe ʻia nā kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka a hiki i 10 mau lā ʻoihana a hiki i ka lā koho, hāʻawi iā ʻoe i ka manawa kūpono e kipa aku ai i kahi e koho ai.
• ʻAʻole koho pāloka. ʻO ka Verity Touch Writer he mea uila wale nō e kōkua iā ʻoe i ka nānā ʻana a me ke kaha ʻana i kāu pāloka. Ma hope o ke koho 
pāloka ʻana, e paʻi ʻoe i kahi pāloka pepa e nānā ʻia no ka helu ʻana. ʻO ka pāloka i paʻi ʻia ʻo ia ka mea i hoʻohana ʻia e ka poʻe koho pāloka ma ke 
kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka a i ʻole ma ka leka.
No ke koho pāloka ʻana me ka hoʻohana ʻana i kahi mea hoʻopaʻa pāloka: E kipa i ke kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka ma kou kalana. Ke hoʻopaʻa 
inoa ma mua o kāu kipa ʻana e hōʻemi paha i kou manawa kali.
KE KĀLĀ E LILO AI NO KA PAIPAI KALAIʻĀINA
No ka ʻike ʻana i nā haʻawina a nā moho a me nā lilo, e kipa i ke Komikina Kālā E Lilo Ai No Ka Paipai Kalaiʻāina pūnaewele puni honua 
csc.hawaii.gov/CFSPublic/menu/.
KOMIKINA KŪ I NĀ LULA MAIKAʻI
No ka ʻike ʻana i nā hōʻike kālā a ka moho no nā moho mokuʻāina, e kipa i ke kaha pūnaewele o ke Komikina Kū i Nā Lula Maikaʻi o ka Mokuʻāina ma 
hawaiiethics.my.site.com/public/s/.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
6NĀ KOU MAU PONO PĀLOKA
Kou kuleana i ka huna o kou koho pāloka
• He inoa ʻole kāu koho pāloka a ʻaʻole pili iā ʻoe a i ʻole kāu hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻana o ka poʻe koho. ʻAʻohe 
moʻolelo i mālama ʻia no kou koho pāloka ʻana.
• ʻAʻole koi ʻia nā mea koho balota ma Hawaiʻi e hōʻike i ka makemake pālua politika ke kākau inoa 
lākou no ke koho pāloka. ʻAʻole nīnau nā keʻena koho pāloka o Hawaiʻi, ʻaʻole hoʻi e mālama i kahi 
moʻolelo o kou pili ʻana i ka ʻaoʻao.
Kou kuleana i ka hoʻohana ʻana o nā lawelawe o ka lā koho
• Inā 'a'ole 'oe i ho'opa'a inoa 'ia e koho pāloka ma ka lā koho, hiki iā 'oe ke ho'opa'a inoa ma ke 
kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka ma kou kalana. E ʻae ʻia ʻoe e koho e hele kino mai kēlā koho pāloka a e 
loaʻa iā ʻoe kahi pāloka leka no nā koho pāloka e hiki mai ana.
• Inā ʻoe ma ka laina, e noho ma ka laina. Hoʻopau ke koho pāloka i ka hola 7:00 PM ma ka lā koho, akā 
naʻe, inā ʻoe ma ka laina e koho pāloka ma ke kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka a i ʻole e waiho i kāu leka 
ma kahi pahu koho pāloka, e ʻae ʻia ʻoe e hana pēlā. Hoʻomaopopo nā limahana i ka hopena o ka laina, 
a ʻaʻole ʻae ʻia ʻoe e hui hou inā haʻalele aku ʻoe.
• Hiki iā ʻoe ke noi i kahi pāloka manawaleʻa inā ʻaʻole hiki iā ʻoe ke hōʻoia i kou kāinoa ʻana. Hiki iā ʻoe 
ke koho pāloka i helu ʻia a helu ʻole paha ma hope o ka hōʻoia ʻana o ka Māhele Koho Kalana i kāu 
hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻana o ka poʻe koho.
Kou kuleana e kāinoa no ke koho pāloka
• Inā loaʻa iā ʻoe ka home ʻole a i ʻole he wahi noho kuʻuna, hiki nō iā ʻoe ke kāinoa e koho pāloka. Ke 
kāinoa ʻoe, e hāʻawi i ka wehewehe ʻana i kou wahi e noho ai - e like me nā alanui keʻa a me nā pae 
ʻāina, e kōkua i nā limahana koho e hoʻoholo i kāu ʻāpana koho. Hiki i nā luna koho ke hāʻawi i ke 
alakaʻi ʻana i nā koho koho e like me ke koho kanaka ma ke kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka.
• Mālama ʻoe i ke kuleana e hoʻopaʻa inoa a koho pāloka inā he paʻa ʻoe ma mua o ka hoʻokolokolo, ma 
ka wā hoʻomalu, a i ʻole i ka palola ma hope o ka paʻahao. Inā ua hoʻāhewa ʻia ʻoe no ka peloni, ʻaʻole 
ʻae ʻia ʻoe e koho pāloka i kou wā paʻahao, akā naʻe, e hoʻihoʻi ʻia kou kuleana koho inā ʻoe ma ka wā 
hoʻomalu a i ʻole ka palola.
Kou kuleana koho oiai kaʻawale aku mai Hawaiʻi mai
• Inā ha'alele 'oe i kou noho 'ana ma Hawai'i nei, hiki iā 'oe ke noi no ka ho'ouna 'ana i ka pāloka ha'alele i 
ka leka i kahi helu wahi 'ē a'e ma ka ho'ouna 'ana i ka palapala noi koho pāloka ha'alele.
• Inā he pūʻali koa ikaika ʻoe, he hoa kāne a hilinaʻi paha i kahi pūʻali koa ikaika a i ʻole he kamaʻāina 
ʻAmelika e noho ana ma ka ʻāina ʻē, hiki iā ʻoe ke koho pāloka i nā koho pāloka o Hawaiʻi. Ma ka 
hoʻopiha ʻana i kahi palapala noi Kāleka Poʻoleka Pekelala, e hāʻawi ʻia kāu pāloka iā ʻoe ma waho.
Kou kuleana i ke kōkua ʻōlelo
• Loaʻa nā mea koho ma ka ʻōlelo Pākē, ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi, Ilokano, a me Tagalog, a loaʻa nā kōkua ʻōlelo 
hou aʻe ma ke kelepona ʻana i ke Keʻena Koho Pāloka.
Kou kuleana i ke koho pāloka me ka hāmeʻa i hoʻonoʻa ʻia a me ke kōkua
• Inā makemake ʻoe i ke kōkua ma o ke kaʻina koho, me ke kāinoa ʻana no ke koho pāloka, a i ʻole ka 
nānā ʻana, ka māka ʻana, a me ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i kāu pāloka, ua ʻae ʻia ʻoe e loaʻa ke kōkua. He mea 
nui e hoʻomaopopo i ka pale ʻana iā ʻoe mai ka hoʻoweliweli ʻana mai i ka poʻe koho pāloka, ua pāpā 
ʻia ʻoe mai ka loaʻa ʻana o ke kōkua mai kahi moho ma ka pāloka, a i ʻole kāu mea hana a luna ʻuniona 
paha.
• Loaʻa nā koho koho pāloka hiki ke koho pilikino a kūʻokoʻa. Hiki i nā poʻe kino kīnā ke noi i kahi koho 
pāloka uila i hoʻoneʻa ʻia a i ʻole e kipa i kahi kikowaena kōkua koho pāloka no ka hoʻohana ʻana i nā 
hāmeʻa no ke koho pāloka i hoʻonoʻa ʻia e nānā a hōʻailona i kā lākou pāloka.KŌKUA ʻŌLELO
Cast your
vote in
comfort. 
Your ballot comes to you.Mark your
calendar.
Oct 18 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your General Election ballot     
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Oct 22 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation.
Oct 28 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the General Election.
Nov 5 | General Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Jul 23 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your Primary Election ballot      
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Jul 29 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation. 
Jul 31 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the Primary Election.
Aug 10 | Primary Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Language assistance
Contact us如需翻譯後的選舉材料或語言協助，請聯絡選舉辦公室。
For information about registering to vote, 
contact your County Elections Division.
County of Hawaii (808) 961-8277
County of Maui (808) 270-7749
County of Kauai (808) 241-4800
City & County of Honolulu (808) 768-3800
For additional voting information, contact the 
Ofﬁce of Elections.
Phone: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Toll Free: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Toll Free TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Email: elections@hawaii.gov
Website: elections.hawaii.gov2024 Primary Election 
2024 General ElectionNeed to vote absentee? 
If you will be away from home during the 
elections, you can request your ballot be sent 
to an alternate address. Complete an Absentee 
Ballot Application and submit it to your County 
Elections Division no later than 7 days before 
the election. Applications are available at 
elections.hawaii.gov.
Prefer to vote in person? 
Voter Service Centers offer in-person accessible 
voting and voter registration, and are open 10 
business days before and on Election Day. For 
locations and hours, go to elections.hawaii.gov.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō7MĀHELE KOHO PĀLOKA KALANA
Kalana ʻo Hawaiʻi
25 Aupuni Street
Room 1502
Hilo, Hawaii 96720
(808) 961-8277
hiloelec@hawaiicounty.gov
Kalana ʻo Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
(808) 270-7749
county.clerk@mauicounty.us
Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi
4386 Rice Street
Room 101
Lihue, Hawaii 96766
(808) 241-4800
elections@kauai.gov
Kūlanakauhale a Kalana ʻo Honolulu
530 South King Street
Room 100
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
(808) 768-3800
elections@honolulu.gov
Kāhea iā mākou
Keʻena Koho Balota
802 Lehua Avenue
Pearl City, Hawaii 96782
(808) 453-VOTE (8683)
elections@hawaii.gov
Kāki ʻole: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Kāki ʻole TTY: 1-800-345-5915Hōʻole:  Ua hoʻolako ʻia nā ʻōlelo ma nā 
ʻaoʻao aʻe e nā moho a ʻaʻole i nānā ʻia no 
ka pololei. ʻO nā manaʻo a me nā manaʻo i 
hōʻike ʻia e nā moho no lākou ponoʻī a ʻaʻole 
pono e hōʻike i nā manaʻo a me nā manaʻo 
o ke Keʻena Koho Pāloka.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō8Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena - pāʻina no ka pilikanaka a me ke kuokoa (SL)
 He mea hoʻonohonoho a he kumu ʻo Karina Garcia, he Chicana, a ua hoʻomaka ʻo ia 
e hakakā no ka wā e hiki mai ana mai kona makahiki 17 . Ma hope o ka loaʻa ʻana o ke kālā komo 
piha i Columbia, ua aʻo ʻo Karina ma ke ʻano he kumu kālaikūlohea i ke kula kiʻekiʻe. Ua kōkua ʻo 
ia i ke alakaʻi ʻana i nā hoʻolālā no nā kuleana hāpai, nā kuleana o nā limahana hale, nā kuleana 
piha no nā malihini, a me ka hoʻokuʻu ʻana i ka ʻaiʻē haumāna. Ke noi nei kēia hoʻolālā i kahi 
hoʻokele waiwai hou loa i hoʻokau ʻia no ka ʻaoʻao hana, ʻaʻole no nā kānaka waiwai. Hiki i ke 
aupuni hana ke hoʻokō i nā pono kanaka – e like me ka mālama ola manuahi, ka hoʻonaʻauao 
manuahi ma nā papa āpau, ka mālama keiki manuahi, ka hale kūpono, a me nā hana hui ʻana 
he kuleana kumu. Ke holo nei ʻo Claudia lāua ʻo Karina me ka ʻAhahui no ka Socialism a me ka 
Hoʻokuʻikahi (PSL), ke hakakā nei no nā pono koke o ka poʻe hune a me ka poʻe hana, a no kahi 
kaiāulu hou – ka socialism. ʻAʻole wale nō kēia hoʻolālā no hoʻokahi koho balota, akā he hoʻolālā 
ia no ke kūkulu ʻana i kahi neʻe nui e kūʻokoʻa mai nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua kākoʻo kālepa.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
GARCIA, Karina
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Karina  Garcia 
ʻAoʻao Kuleana Aupuni a Hoʻopakele
Hope Pelekikena
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ua hoʻouna ʻia he ʻōlelo hui no nā moho Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ONAK, Lauren
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Lauren M. Onak 
ʻAoʻao ʻOnipaʻa
Hope Pelekikena
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Ua loaʻa iā Mike ter Maat kahi ʻoihana kūleʻa i ka ʻepekema waiwai i hāpai ʻia e kāna 
hana ma ka White House Office of Management and Budget a me ke aʻo ʻana ma ke kulanui. Ma 
Washington DC, ua kākoʻo ʻo ia no nā mākeke lawelawe kālā kūʻokoʻa hou aʻe. Ua lawelawe 
ʻo Mike ter Maat ma ke ʻano he mākaʻi ma Broward County FL no 11.5 makahiki. Ua ʻike ʻo ia i 
ka pono no nā hoʻololi koʻikoʻi i ka hoʻopaʻi kānāwai, me ka hoʻohui ʻana i ka uku me ka hana 
a me ka pani ʻana i ka kūʻokoʻa koʻikoʻi me ka inikua kuleana pilikino. Ke kau nei ʻo ter Maat i 
kahi kulekele ʻāina ʻē e kālele ana i ka pono a me ka pale ʻana i ka komo pū ʻana ma waho o ka 
ʻae kālā a me ka komo koa, ʻoiai ke hoʻohana nei i ke kālepa e hoʻoikaika a hōʻoia i nā pilina. 
Ke noi nei ʻo ter Maat i nā paepae liʻiliʻi i ka hoʻoili kūpono a me nā kumuwaiwai palena no ka 
hoʻokolokolo wikiwiki ʻana. Ke kākoʻo nei ʻo Mike ter Maat i ka hoʻokaʻawale ʻana i ke aupuni no 
ka hoʻopau ʻana i ka mana aupuni a me ka mālama ʻana i kā mākou Kānāwai Kūlana.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TER MAAT, Mike
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Michael A. ter Maat 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Hope Pelekikena
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 He hanohano ia ke kū pū me Pelekikena Donald J. Trump ke hana nei mākou e hoʻihoʻi 
i kēia lāhui nui. ʻOiai nā hoʻouka hoʻomau ʻole, ʻaʻole pau ka hoʻolaʻa ʻana o Pelekikena Trump 
i ka poʻe Amelika. ʻAʻole ʻo ia i komo i ke kūʻokoʻa no kona pono iho – ua hana ʻo ia no ka mea 
i pono ʻia e ʻAmelika. Hoʻokau ʻo Pelekikena Trump i ka ʻAmelika ma mua, ke hakakā nei no 
nā limahana, nā ʻohana, a me nā kaiāulu. Ma lalo o kāna alakaʻi ʻana, ʻike mākou i ka hoʻokele 
waiwai ikaika loa, nā palena palekana, a me ka haʻaheo hou o ʻAmelika. Ke kūʻē nei ke kūkulu ma 
Washington iā ia no ka mea ke hana nei ʻo ia no ʻoe, ʻaʻole no lākou. He koʻikoʻi kēia koho balota. 
Ma lalo o Joe Biden, ʻike mākou i ka hoʻokele waiwai nāwaliwali, ka kūwaho kūpono ʻole, a me 
ka piʻi ʻana o ka lawehala. ʻO Kamala Harris e hoʻonui wale i ka pilikia. Akā me Pelekikena Trump, 
hiki iā mākou ke hoʻihoʻi i ka ikaika a me ka waiwai a mākou i hauʻoli ai ma mua. Haʻaheo wau e 
kū pū me Pelekikena Trump a noi i kāu balota. E koho hou iā ia a hoʻomau i ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ka 
hanohano o ʻAmelika. Mahalo, a e hoʻomaikaʻi mai ke Akua iā ʻAmelika.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
VANCE, JD
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
James David Vance 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Hope Pelekikena
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com ʻO Claudia De la Cruz he makuahine, kumu, kahu, a he mea hoʻolālā kaiāulu no ke ola 
āpau, e hoʻolaʻa nei i ka pono no ka papa hana. Ke ʻōlelo nei mākou, “Pau ke kālā ʻana ma mua 
o ko mākou pau ʻana.” Ke kaumaha nei nā kamaʻāina i ke kumukūʻai nui o ka hale, nā meaʻai, 
a me ka ʻaiʻē. Hoʻoponopono kekahi poʻokela biliōna i ka ʻōnaehana waiwai, hoʻomaka i nā 
kaua, a hoʻopōʻino i ka honua. Hoʻohana nā kālaiʻāina ʻoihana a me Wall Street i ka pūʻali koa 
e lawe, hoʻopau, a hoʻohaumia i ka ʻāina mai Red Hill a i Gaza. Mai ka mālama ʻole o ke aupuni 
ma Lahaina a i ka lawe ʻāina ma Hawaiʻi, mālama ka poʻe kālā nui i ka hana kūkulu i nā hōkele 
ma mua o ka hana hou ʻana i nā kaiāulu. Kākoʻo mākou i ka pono kūʻokoʻa o ka lāhui Hawaiʻi a 
me nā kuleana piha no nā malihini. Ke noi nei mākou e pau ke kaua ma luna o ʻAmelika ʻEleʻele, 
e hoʻopau i ka luku ʻana i nā kānaka Palesetina, a e hoʻopau i ke kākoʻo ʻana o US i ka ʻāina 
ʻIseraʻela. Makemake mākou i ka maluhia, ʻaʻole ke kaua pau ʻole. E kūkulu pū kākou i ka neʻe 
kānaka no ka pono, me ka hui pū!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
ʻAoʻao Kuleana Aupuni a Hoʻopakele
Pelekikena
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ke kūpaʻa nei Hope Pelekikena Harris i ka hele ʻana i kahi ala hou e mālama ai i 
kā mākou mau pono kumu, me ke kuleana o ka wahine e koho, ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i kā mākou 
aupuni hoʻomalu kanaka, a hōʻoia i ka hiki i kēlā me kēia kanaka ke lanakila, ʻaʻole wale nō e 
ola. Ma kāna ʻoihana ma ke ʻano he loio, Luna Nui, Senatoa, a i kēia manawa ma ke ʻano he Hope 
Pelekikena, ua kūpaʻa mau ʻo Kamala Harris e pale aku i ka poʻe mai nā mea hoʻopunipuni, nā 
mea ʻaihue, a me nā mana ikaika. Ua hānai ʻia ʻo ia e kekahi makuahine hana i loko o kahi ʻohana 
waena, a manaʻo ʻo ia he paʻa ka waena o ke kaiāulu, paʻa pū nō hoʻi ʻo ʻAmelika, a i kona lilo 
ʻana i Pelekikena, e kau nui ana ʻo ia i ka hoʻēmi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai a me ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i 
ka palekana o ka waiwai. Hōʻoia ʻo ia e lilo ʻo ia i Pelekikena no nā ʻAmelika a pau, Pelekikena e 
hoʻohui iā kākou i kā kākou mau manaʻo kiʻekiʻe loa, a e kūpaʻa mau e hakakā no ka poʻe. Mai ka 
hale hoʻokolokolo a hiki i ka Hale Paʻa, ʻo ia ka hana o kona ola.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kamala D. Harris 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Pelekikena
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Ma hope o koʻu hele ʻana i nā mokuʻāina 50 a pau, ua ʻike wau pehea e kū hou ai 
ka pohō waiwai a me ka mana nui o ke aupuni i ka poʻe. Ma ka hoʻemi ʻana i ke kālā hoʻopau a 
me ka ho‘ololi ʻana i ke kālā kālā, hiki iā mākou ke hoʻopāha‘aha‘a i ke kumukūʻai ola a ho‘onui 
i ka waiwai no nā kānaka a pau. E hoʻopau wau i nā kaua, e hoʻihoʻi i kā mākou pūʻali koa, a e 
hoʻokaʻawale i ka Jones Act no ka ho‘emi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai hoʻouna, e hāʻawi ana i nā kānaka 
Hawai‘i i nā meaʻai i emi ka waiwai. E wehe kākou i nā mea paʻa a ke aupuni a e kōkua i ko mākou 
ʻāina e ulu hou.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
OLIVER, Chase
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Chase Russell Oliver 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Pelekikena
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ke hoʻopaʻa nei ka ʻAhahui Kākoʻo ʻAmelika i ka hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i ko mākou ʻāina 
a me ka honua ma o nā kulekele ʻona a me ka naʻauao e hoʻokumu ʻia ai i nā kumu Kākālina. 
Manaʻo ʻo Peter Sonski lāua ʻo Lauren Onak e loaʻa ana i nā kānaka a pau—ina hānau ʻole ʻia, 
maʻi, hune, a paʻa paha—he kūlana kanaka i hānau ʻia me ka hiki ʻole ke lawe ʻia aku. Hoʻohiki 
kā mākou kuleana ʻohana e ʻimi like i ka pono, me ka nānā ʻana i ke aupuni a me nā kaiāulu 
kūpono loa e hoʻokō i nā pono o nā ʻohana a me nā kaiaulu. Manaʻo mākou i ke kālaiʻāina 
mālama kaiapuni e hoʻomau i ka nānā ʻana i nā kānaka a me nā kaiāulu, a me ka mālama ʻana i 
ka honua no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. Kākoʻo mākou i nā kulekele kākoʻo ʻohana e hoʻēmi i nā 
paʻakikī hoʻokele waiwai, e hoʻolako i nā ʻohana i ka hiki ke hānai i nā keiki. Hoʻokūpaʻa mākou i 
nā limahana a me nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, me ka hoʻokumu ʻana i nā mea hoʻouluulu no ka hoʻomohala 
ʻana i ka hoʻokele waiwai kūlana like.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SONSKI, Peter
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Peter  Sonski 
ʻAoʻao ʻOnipaʻa
Pelekikena
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō9Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena - aoao Demokarata (D)
 ʻO Claudia De la Cruz he makuahine, kumu, kahu, a he mea hoʻolālā kaiāulu no ke ola 
āpau, e hoʻolaʻa nei i ka pono no ka papa hana. Ke ʻōlelo nei mākou, “Pau ke kālā ʻana ma mua 
o ko mākou pau ʻana.” Ke kaumaha nei nā kamaʻāina i ke kumukūʻai nui o ka hale, nā meaʻai, 
a me ka ʻaiʻē. Hoʻoponopono kekahi poʻokela biliōna i ka ʻōnaehana waiwai, hoʻomaka i nā 
kaua, a hoʻopōʻino i ka honua. Hoʻohana nā kālaiʻāina ʻoihana a me Wall Street i ka pūʻali koa 
e lawe, hoʻopau, a hoʻohaumia i ka ʻāina mai Red Hill a i Gaza. Mai ka mālama ʻole o ke aupuni 
ma Lahaina a i ka lawe ʻāina ma Hawaiʻi, mālama ka poʻe kālā nui i ka hana kūkulu i nā hōkele 
ma mua o ka hana hou ʻana i nā kaiāulu. Kākoʻo mākou i ka pono kūʻokoʻa o ka lāhui Hawaiʻi a 
me nā kuleana piha no nā malihini. Ke noi nei mākou e pau ke kaua ma luna o ʻAmelika ʻEleʻele, 
e hoʻopau i ka luku ʻana i nā kānaka Palesetina, a e hoʻopau i ke kākoʻo ʻana o US i ka ʻāina 
ʻIseraʻela. Makemake mākou i ka maluhia, ʻaʻole ke kaua pau ʻole. E kūkulu pū kākou i ka neʻe 
kānaka no ka pono, me ka hui pū!INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
ʻAoʻao Kuleana Aupuni a Hoʻopakele
Pelekikena
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ke kūpaʻa nei Hope Pelekikena Harris i ka hele ʻana i kahi ala hou e mālama ai i 
kā mākou mau pono kumu, me ke kuleana o ka wahine e koho, ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i kā mākou 
aupuni hoʻomalu kanaka, a hōʻoia i ka hiki i kēlā me kēia kanaka ke lanakila, ʻaʻole wale nō e 
ola. Ma kāna ʻoihana ma ke ʻano he loio, Luna Nui, Senatoa, a i kēia manawa ma ke ʻano he Hope 
Pelekikena, ua kūpaʻa mau ʻo Kamala Harris e pale aku i ka poʻe mai nā mea hoʻopunipuni, nā 
mea ʻaihue, a me nā mana ikaika. Ua hānai ʻia ʻo ia e kekahi makuahine hana i loko o kahi ʻohana 
waena, a manaʻo ʻo ia he paʻa ka waena o ke kaiāulu, paʻa pū nō hoʻi ʻo ʻAmelika, a i kona lilo 
ʻana i Pelekikena, e kau nui ana ʻo ia i ka hoʻēmi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai a me ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i 
ka palekana o ka waiwai. Hōʻoia ʻo ia e lilo ʻo ia i Pelekikena no nā ʻAmelika a pau, Pelekikena e 
hoʻohui iā kākou i kā kākou mau manaʻo kiʻekiʻe loa, a e kūpaʻa mau e hakakā no ka poʻe. Mai ka 
hale hoʻokolokolo a hiki i ka Hale Paʻa, ʻo ia ka hana o kona ola.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kamala D. Harris 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Pelekikena
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Ma hope o koʻu hele ʻana i nā mokuʻāina 50 a pau, ua ʻike wau pehea e kū hou ai 
ka pohō waiwai a me ka mana nui o ke aupuni i ka poʻe. Ma ka hoʻemi ʻana i ke kālā hoʻopau a 
me ka ho‘ololi ʻana i ke kālā kālā, hiki iā mākou ke hoʻopāha‘aha‘a i ke kumukūʻai ola a ho‘onui 
i ka waiwai no nā kānaka a pau. E hoʻopau wau i nā kaua, e hoʻihoʻi i kā mākou pūʻali koa, a e 
hoʻokaʻawale i ka Jones Act no ka ho‘emi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai hoʻouna, e hāʻawi ana i nā kānaka 
Hawai‘i i nā meaʻai i emi ka waiwai. E wehe kākou i nā mea paʻa a ke aupuni a e kōkua i ko mākou 
ʻāina e ulu hou.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
OLIVER, Chase
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Chase Russell Oliver 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Pelekikena
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ke hoʻopaʻa nei ka ʻAhahui Kākoʻo ʻAmelika i ka hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i ko mākou ʻāina 
a me ka honua ma o nā kulekele ʻona a me ka naʻauao e hoʻokumu ʻia ai i nā kumu Kākālina. 
Manaʻo ʻo Peter Sonski lāua ʻo Lauren Onak e loaʻa ana i nā kānaka a pau—ina hānau ʻole ʻia, 
maʻi, hune, a paʻa paha—he kūlana kanaka i hānau ʻia me ka hiki ʻole ke lawe ʻia aku. Hoʻohiki 
kā mākou kuleana ʻohana e ʻimi like i ka pono, me ka nānā ʻana i ke aupuni a me nā kaiāulu 
kūpono loa e hoʻokō i nā pono o nā ʻohana a me nā kaiaulu. Manaʻo mākou i ke kālaiʻāina 
mālama kaiapuni e hoʻomau i ka nānā ʻana i nā kānaka a me nā kaiāulu, a me ka mālama ʻana i 
ka honua no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. Kākoʻo mākou i nā kulekele kākoʻo ʻohana e hoʻēmi i nā 
paʻakikī hoʻokele waiwai, e hoʻolako i nā ʻohana i ka hiki ke hānai i nā keiki. Hoʻokūpaʻa mākou i 
nā limahana a me nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, me ka hoʻokumu ʻana i nā mea hoʻouluulu no ka hoʻomohala 
ʻana i ka hoʻokele waiwai kūlana like.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SONSKI, Peter
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Peter  Sonski 
ʻAoʻao ʻOnipaʻa
Pelekikena
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com ʻO Governor Tim Walz he mea paʻa no nā ʻohana hana o Amerika. Ua komo ia i ka 
Army National Guard a ua lawelawe no 24 makahiki. Ua lawelawe ʻo Walz i kona kaiāulu ma ke 
ʻano he kumu a me ke kope pōpō – e lawe ana i kāna hui i ka hoʻokūkū mokuʻāina no ka manawa 
mua ma ke kula. Ua koho ʻia ʻo ia i ke Kongress ma kekahi kūlanakauhale i manaʻo ʻole i ka 
Republican, ma laila hoʻi i hoʻokō i ka hālāwai ʻana o ka House Veterans Affairs Committee a 
hana i kānāwai e kōkua i ka hana ʻana i ka nānā ʻana i ka poʻe kūpuna. Ma ke ʻano he governor, 
ua pōkole ʻo Walz i nā mea kānāwai, mālama i ka nui o ka insulin, kāpae i nā ʻaoʻao junk, a 
hoʻomaka i ka mālama kānāwai ma ke kuleana. Ua kū ʻo Walz no nā kuleana kumu a hana i 
kānāwai e mālama i ka kuleana o ke wahine e koho ʻana ma hope o ka hoʻokaʻawale ʻana o 
Roe e Donald Trump. He mea puʻu i nā pū a he mea hunt ʻauʻau, ua hoʻonui ʻo Walz i nā hana 
hoʻopaʻa inoa ma Minnesota. A ua hana ʻo ia me nā mea ʻē aʻe ma ke kumu hana pili i ka hoʻolālā 
pākiʻāina.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
WALZ, Tim
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Timothy J. Walz 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Hope Pelekikena
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 ʻO Professor Rudolph “Butch” Ware he mea kohoʻi a me nā kumu hoʻonaʻauao i 
hiki ke paʻa i ka mōʻaukala o ka ʻāina, ke kūʻokoʻa, ka hoʻowahāwahā, a me ke kūʻokoʻa. No nā 
makahiki e hui ʻole ai, ua hāʻawi ʻia ʻo Ware i kāna ʻike i ka poʻe, maʻalahi i ka hoʻomau ʻana i ke 
kūpua i Gaza, a me ka manaʻoʻiʻo o George Floyd i ka makahiki 2020. Ua hoʻoponopono ʻo ia i nā 
manawa hoʻomaʻamaʻa, nā kumu hoʻonaʻauao kaiāulu, a me nā hana hoʻokele a me ka mālama 
ʻana i nā hui. Ma kahi ʻē aʻe, ua hana ʻo Ware ma ke ʻano he ʻōlelo no ka lehulehu, he mea kohoʻi, 
he mea hana no nā kiʻi, a he mea hana ʻana, e kākoʻo i nā hui ma nā ʻāina a puni ka honua e kūʻē 
i ke kumukūʻai, ka hoʻowahāwahā ʻāina, a me ka kaua mau, a e kūkulu i nā ʻano kūpono, kūpono, 
a me ka maluhia ma muli o nā kaʻao ʻo Africa, nā poʻe kūʻokoʻa, a me nā manaʻo Abrahamic. ʻO 
Ware kekahi o nā kumu hana ʻike ma ʻoi loa no ka U.S. Black Radical Tradition, Africa a me Islam. 
ʻO Professor Ware he lālā ʻōlelo nui ma Northwestern, Michigan, a ʻo nā makahiki nei ma UC 
Santa-Barbara, e aʻo ana ma ka History, Black Studies, a me Islamic Studies.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
WARE, Rudolph
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Rudolph  Ware 
ʻAoʻao ʻŌmaʻomaʻo
Hope Pelekikena
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō10Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena - Pāʻina Libertarian (L)
 He mea hoʻonohonoho a he kumu ʻo Karina Garcia, he Chicana, a ua hoʻomaka ʻo ia 
e hakakā no ka wā e hiki mai ana mai kona makahiki 17 . Ma hope o ka loaʻa ʻana o ke kālā komo 
piha i Columbia, ua aʻo ʻo Karina ma ke ʻano he kumu kālaikūlohea i ke kula kiʻekiʻe. Ua kōkua ʻo 
ia i ke alakaʻi ʻana i nā hoʻolālā no nā kuleana hāpai, nā kuleana o nā limahana hale, nā kuleana 
piha no nā malihini, a me ka hoʻokuʻu ʻana i ka ʻaiʻē haumāna. Ke noi nei kēia hoʻolālā i kahi 
hoʻokele waiwai hou loa i hoʻokau ʻia no ka ʻaoʻao hana, ʻaʻole no nā kānaka waiwai. Hiki i ke 
aupuni hana ke hoʻokō i nā pono kanaka – e like me ka mālama ola manuahi, ka hoʻonaʻauao 
manuahi ma nā papa āpau, ka mālama keiki manuahi, ka hale kūpono, a me nā hana hui ʻana 
he kuleana kumu. Ke holo nei ʻo Claudia lāua ʻo Karina me ka ʻAhahui no ka Socialism a me ka 
Hoʻokuʻikahi (PSL), ke hakakā nei no nā pono koke o ka poʻe hune a me ka poʻe hana, a no kahi 
kaiāulu hou – ka socialism. ʻAʻole wale nō kēia hoʻolālā no hoʻokahi koho balota, akā he hoʻolālā 
ia no ke kūkulu ʻana i kahi neʻe nui e kūʻokoʻa mai nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua kākoʻo kālepa.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
GARCIA, Karina
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Karina  Garcia 
ʻAoʻao Kuleana Aupuni a Hoʻopakele
Hope Pelekikena
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ua hoʻouna ʻia he ʻōlelo hui no nā moho Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ONAK, Lauren
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Lauren M. Onak 
ʻAoʻao ʻOnipaʻa
Hope Pelekikena
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Ua loaʻa iā Mike ter Maat kahi ʻoihana kūleʻa i ka ʻepekema waiwai i hāpai ʻia e kāna 
hana ma ka White House Office of Management and Budget a me ke aʻo ʻana ma ke kulanui. Ma 
Washington DC, ua kākoʻo ʻo ia no nā mākeke lawelawe kālā kūʻokoʻa hou aʻe. Ua lawelawe 
ʻo Mike ter Maat ma ke ʻano he mākaʻi ma Broward County FL no 11.5 makahiki. Ua ʻike ʻo ia i 
ka pono no nā hoʻololi koʻikoʻi i ka hoʻopaʻi kānāwai, me ka hoʻohui ʻana i ka uku me ka hana 
a me ka pani ʻana i ka kūʻokoʻa koʻikoʻi me ka inikua kuleana pilikino. Ke kau nei ʻo ter Maat i 
kahi kulekele ʻāina ʻē e kālele ana i ka pono a me ka pale ʻana i ka komo pū ʻana ma waho o ka 
ʻae kālā a me ka komo koa, ʻoiai ke hoʻohana nei i ke kālepa e hoʻoikaika a hōʻoia i nā pilina. 
Ke noi nei ʻo ter Maat i nā paepae liʻiliʻi i ka hoʻoili kūpono a me nā kumuwaiwai palena no ka 
hoʻokolokolo wikiwiki ʻana. Ke kākoʻo nei ʻo Mike ter Maat i ka hoʻokaʻawale ʻana i ke aupuni no 
ka hoʻopau ʻana i ka mana aupuni a me ka mālama ʻana i kā mākou Kānāwai Kūlana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TER MAAT, Mike
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Michael A. ter Maat 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Hope Pelekikena
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 He hanohano ia ke kū pū me Pelekikena Donald J. Trump ke hana nei mākou e hoʻihoʻi 
i kēia lāhui nui. ʻOiai nā hoʻouka hoʻomau ʻole, ʻaʻole pau ka hoʻolaʻa ʻana o Pelekikena Trump 
i ka poʻe Amelika. ʻAʻole ʻo ia i komo i ke kūʻokoʻa no kona pono iho – ua hana ʻo ia no ka mea 
i pono ʻia e ʻAmelika. Hoʻokau ʻo Pelekikena Trump i ka ʻAmelika ma mua, ke hakakā nei no 
nā limahana, nā ʻohana, a me nā kaiāulu. Ma lalo o kāna alakaʻi ʻana, ʻike mākou i ka hoʻokele 
waiwai ikaika loa, nā palena palekana, a me ka haʻaheo hou o ʻAmelika. Ke kūʻē nei ke kūkulu ma 
Washington iā ia no ka mea ke hana nei ʻo ia no ʻoe, ʻaʻole no lākou. He koʻikoʻi kēia koho balota. 
Ma lalo o Joe Biden, ʻike mākou i ka hoʻokele waiwai nāwaliwali, ka kūwaho kūpono ʻole, a me 
ka piʻi ʻana o ka lawehala. ʻO Kamala Harris e hoʻonui wale i ka pilikia. Akā me Pelekikena Trump, 
hiki iā mākou ke hoʻihoʻi i ka ikaika a me ka waiwai a mākou i hauʻoli ai ma mua. Haʻaheo wau e 
kū pū me Pelekikena Trump a noi i kāu balota. E koho hou iā ia a hoʻomau i ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ka 
hanohano o ʻAmelika. Mahalo, a e hoʻomaikaʻi mai ke Akua iā ʻAmelika.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
VANCE, JD
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
James David Vance 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Hope Pelekikena
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com ʻO Claudia De la Cruz he makuahine, kumu, kahu, a he mea hoʻolālā kaiāulu no ke ola 
āpau, e hoʻolaʻa nei i ka pono no ka papa hana. Ke ʻōlelo nei mākou, “Pau ke kālā ʻana ma mua 
o ko mākou pau ʻana.” Ke kaumaha nei nā kamaʻāina i ke kumukūʻai nui o ka hale, nā meaʻai, 
a me ka ʻaiʻē. Hoʻoponopono kekahi poʻokela biliōna i ka ʻōnaehana waiwai, hoʻomaka i nā 
kaua, a hoʻopōʻino i ka honua. Hoʻohana nā kālaiʻāina ʻoihana a me Wall Street i ka pūʻali koa 
e lawe, hoʻopau, a hoʻohaumia i ka ʻāina mai Red Hill a i Gaza. Mai ka mālama ʻole o ke aupuni 
ma Lahaina a i ka lawe ʻāina ma Hawaiʻi, mālama ka poʻe kālā nui i ka hana kūkulu i nā hōkele 
ma mua o ka hana hou ʻana i nā kaiāulu. Kākoʻo mākou i ka pono kūʻokoʻa o ka lāhui Hawaiʻi a 
me nā kuleana piha no nā malihini. Ke noi nei mākou e pau ke kaua ma luna o ʻAmelika ʻEleʻele, 
e hoʻopau i ka luku ʻana i nā kānaka Palesetina, a e hoʻopau i ke kākoʻo ʻana o US i ka ʻāina 
ʻIseraʻela. Makemake mākou i ka maluhia, ʻaʻole ke kaua pau ʻole. E kūkulu pū kākou i ka neʻe 
kānaka no ka pono, me ka hui pū!INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
ʻAoʻao Kuleana Aupuni a Hoʻopakele
Pelekikena
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ke kūpaʻa nei Hope Pelekikena Harris i ka hele ʻana i kahi ala hou e mālama ai i 
kā mākou mau pono kumu, me ke kuleana o ka wahine e koho, ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i kā mākou 
aupuni hoʻomalu kanaka, a hōʻoia i ka hiki i kēlā me kēia kanaka ke lanakila, ʻaʻole wale nō e 
ola. Ma kāna ʻoihana ma ke ʻano he loio, Luna Nui, Senatoa, a i kēia manawa ma ke ʻano he Hope 
Pelekikena, ua kūpaʻa mau ʻo Kamala Harris e pale aku i ka poʻe mai nā mea hoʻopunipuni, nā 
mea ʻaihue, a me nā mana ikaika. Ua hānai ʻia ʻo ia e kekahi makuahine hana i loko o kahi ʻohana 
waena, a manaʻo ʻo ia he paʻa ka waena o ke kaiāulu, paʻa pū nō hoʻi ʻo ʻAmelika, a i kona lilo 
ʻana i Pelekikena, e kau nui ana ʻo ia i ka hoʻēmi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai a me ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i 
ka palekana o ka waiwai. Hōʻoia ʻo ia e lilo ʻo ia i Pelekikena no nā ʻAmelika a pau, Pelekikena e 
hoʻohui iā kākou i kā kākou mau manaʻo kiʻekiʻe loa, a e kūpaʻa mau e hakakā no ka poʻe. Mai ka 
hale hoʻokolokolo a hiki i ka Hale Paʻa, ʻo ia ka hana o kona ola.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kamala D. Harris 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Pelekikena
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Ma hope o koʻu hele ʻana i nā mokuʻāina 50 a pau, ua ʻike wau pehea e kū hou ai 
ka pohō waiwai a me ka mana nui o ke aupuni i ka poʻe. Ma ka hoʻemi ʻana i ke kālā hoʻopau a 
me ka ho‘ololi ʻana i ke kālā kālā, hiki iā mākou ke hoʻopāha‘aha‘a i ke kumukūʻai ola a ho‘onui 
i ka waiwai no nā kānaka a pau. E hoʻopau wau i nā kaua, e hoʻihoʻi i kā mākou pūʻali koa, a e 
hoʻokaʻawale i ka Jones Act no ka ho‘emi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai hoʻouna, e hāʻawi ana i nā kānaka 
Hawai‘i i nā meaʻai i emi ka waiwai. E wehe kākou i nā mea paʻa a ke aupuni a e kōkua i ko mākou 
ʻāina e ulu hou.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
OLIVER, Chase
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Chase Russell Oliver 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Pelekikena
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ke hoʻopaʻa nei ka ʻAhahui Kākoʻo ʻAmelika i ka hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i ko mākou ʻāina 
a me ka honua ma o nā kulekele ʻona a me ka naʻauao e hoʻokumu ʻia ai i nā kumu Kākālina. 
Manaʻo ʻo Peter Sonski lāua ʻo Lauren Onak e loaʻa ana i nā kānaka a pau—ina hānau ʻole ʻia, 
maʻi, hune, a paʻa paha—he kūlana kanaka i hānau ʻia me ka hiki ʻole ke lawe ʻia aku. Hoʻohiki 
kā mākou kuleana ʻohana e ʻimi like i ka pono, me ka nānā ʻana i ke aupuni a me nā kaiāulu 
kūpono loa e hoʻokō i nā pono o nā ʻohana a me nā kaiaulu. Manaʻo mākou i ke kālaiʻāina 
mālama kaiapuni e hoʻomau i ka nānā ʻana i nā kānaka a me nā kaiāulu, a me ka mālama ʻana i 
ka honua no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. Kākoʻo mākou i nā kulekele kākoʻo ʻohana e hoʻēmi i nā 
paʻakikī hoʻokele waiwai, e hoʻolako i nā ʻohana i ka hiki ke hānai i nā keiki. Hoʻokūpaʻa mākou i 
nā limahana a me nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, me ka hoʻokumu ʻana i nā mea hoʻouluulu no ka hoʻomohala 
ʻana i ka hoʻokele waiwai kūlana like.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SONSKI, Peter
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Peter  Sonski 
ʻAoʻao ʻOnipaʻa
Pelekikena
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.comKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō11Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena - Pāʻina Pūʻulu (S)
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 He mea hoʻonohonoho a he kumu ʻo Karina Garcia, he Chicana, a ua hoʻomaka ʻo ia 
e hakakā no ka wā e hiki mai ana mai kona makahiki 17 . Ma hope o ka loaʻa ʻana o ke kālā komo 
piha i Columbia, ua aʻo ʻo Karina ma ke ʻano he kumu kālaikūlohea i ke kula kiʻekiʻe. Ua kōkua ʻo 
ia i ke alakaʻi ʻana i nā hoʻolālā no nā kuleana hāpai, nā kuleana o nā limahana hale, nā kuleana 
piha no nā malihini, a me ka hoʻokuʻu ʻana i ka ʻaiʻē haumāna. Ke noi nei kēia hoʻolālā i kahi 
hoʻokele waiwai hou loa i hoʻokau ʻia no ka ʻaoʻao hana, ʻaʻole no nā kānaka waiwai. Hiki i ke 
aupuni hana ke hoʻokō i nā pono kanaka – e like me ka mālama ola manuahi, ka hoʻonaʻauao 
manuahi ma nā papa āpau, ka mālama keiki manuahi, ka hale kūpono, a me nā hana hui ʻana 
he kuleana kumu. Ke holo nei ʻo Claudia lāua ʻo Karina me ka ʻAhahui no ka Socialism a me ka 
Hoʻokuʻikahi (PSL), ke hakakā nei no nā pono koke o ka poʻe hune a me ka poʻe hana, a no kahi 
kaiāulu hou – ka socialism. ʻAʻole wale nō kēia hoʻolālā no hoʻokahi koho balota, akā he hoʻolālā 
ia no ke kūkulu ʻana i kahi neʻe nui e kūʻokoʻa mai nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua kākoʻo kālepa.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
GARCIA, Karina
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Karina  Garcia 
ʻAoʻao Kuleana Aupuni a Hoʻopakele
Hope Pelekikena
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ua hoʻouna ʻia he ʻōlelo hui no nā moho Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ONAK, Lauren
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Lauren M. Onak 
ʻAoʻao ʻOnipaʻa
Hope Pelekikena
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Ua loaʻa iā Mike ter Maat kahi ʻoihana kūleʻa i ka ʻepekema waiwai i hāpai ʻia e kāna 
hana ma ka White House Office of Management and Budget a me ke aʻo ʻana ma ke kulanui. Ma 
Washington DC, ua kākoʻo ʻo ia no nā mākeke lawelawe kālā kūʻokoʻa hou aʻe. Ua lawelawe 
ʻo Mike ter Maat ma ke ʻano he mākaʻi ma Broward County FL no 11.5 makahiki. Ua ʻike ʻo ia i 
ka pono no nā hoʻololi koʻikoʻi i ka hoʻopaʻi kānāwai, me ka hoʻohui ʻana i ka uku me ka hana 
a me ka pani ʻana i ka kūʻokoʻa koʻikoʻi me ka inikua kuleana pilikino. Ke kau nei ʻo ter Maat i 
kahi kulekele ʻāina ʻē e kālele ana i ka pono a me ka pale ʻana i ka komo pū ʻana ma waho o ka 
ʻae kālā a me ka komo koa, ʻoiai ke hoʻohana nei i ke kālepa e hoʻoikaika a hōʻoia i nā pilina. 
Ke noi nei ʻo ter Maat i nā paepae liʻiliʻi i ka hoʻoili kūpono a me nā kumuwaiwai palena no ka 
hoʻokolokolo wikiwiki ʻana. Ke kākoʻo nei ʻo Mike ter Maat i ka hoʻokaʻawale ʻana i ke aupuni no 
ka hoʻopau ʻana i ka mana aupuni a me ka mālama ʻana i kā mākou Kānāwai Kūlana.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TER MAAT, Mike
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Michael A. ter Maat 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Hope Pelekikena
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 He hanohano ia ke kū pū me Pelekikena Donald J. Trump ke hana nei mākou e hoʻihoʻi 
i kēia lāhui nui. ʻOiai nā hoʻouka hoʻomau ʻole, ʻaʻole pau ka hoʻolaʻa ʻana o Pelekikena Trump 
i ka poʻe Amelika. ʻAʻole ʻo ia i komo i ke kūʻokoʻa no kona pono iho – ua hana ʻo ia no ka mea 
i pono ʻia e ʻAmelika. Hoʻokau ʻo Pelekikena Trump i ka ʻAmelika ma mua, ke hakakā nei no 
nā limahana, nā ʻohana, a me nā kaiāulu. Ma lalo o kāna alakaʻi ʻana, ʻike mākou i ka hoʻokele 
waiwai ikaika loa, nā palena palekana, a me ka haʻaheo hou o ʻAmelika. Ke kūʻē nei ke kūkulu ma 
Washington iā ia no ka mea ke hana nei ʻo ia no ʻoe, ʻaʻole no lākou. He koʻikoʻi kēia koho balota. 
Ma lalo o Joe Biden, ʻike mākou i ka hoʻokele waiwai nāwaliwali, ka kūwaho kūpono ʻole, a me 
ka piʻi ʻana o ka lawehala. ʻO Kamala Harris e hoʻonui wale i ka pilikia. Akā me Pelekikena Trump, 
hiki iā mākou ke hoʻihoʻi i ka ikaika a me ka waiwai a mākou i hauʻoli ai ma mua. Haʻaheo wau e 
kū pū me Pelekikena Trump a noi i kāu balota. E koho hou iā ia a hoʻomau i ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ka 
hanohano o ʻAmelika. Mahalo, a e hoʻomaikaʻi mai ke Akua iā ʻAmelika.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
VANCE, JD
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
James David Vance 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Hope Pelekikena
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com ʻO Claudia De la Cruz he makuahine, kumu, kahu, a he mea hoʻolālā kaiāulu no ke ola 
āpau, e hoʻolaʻa nei i ka pono no ka papa hana. Ke ʻōlelo nei mākou, “Pau ke kālā ʻana ma mua 
o ko mākou pau ʻana.” Ke kaumaha nei nā kamaʻāina i ke kumukūʻai nui o ka hale, nā meaʻai, 
a me ka ʻaiʻē. Hoʻoponopono kekahi poʻokela biliōna i ka ʻōnaehana waiwai, hoʻomaka i nā 
kaua, a hoʻopōʻino i ka honua. Hoʻohana nā kālaiʻāina ʻoihana a me Wall Street i ka pūʻali koa 
e lawe, hoʻopau, a hoʻohaumia i ka ʻāina mai Red Hill a i Gaza. Mai ka mālama ʻole o ke aupuni 
ma Lahaina a i ka lawe ʻāina ma Hawaiʻi, mālama ka poʻe kālā nui i ka hana kūkulu i nā hōkele 
ma mua o ka hana hou ʻana i nā kaiāulu. Kākoʻo mākou i ka pono kūʻokoʻa o ka lāhui Hawaiʻi a 
me nā kuleana piha no nā malihini. Ke noi nei mākou e pau ke kaua ma luna o ʻAmelika ʻEleʻele, 
e hoʻopau i ka luku ʻana i nā kānaka Palesetina, a e hoʻopau i ke kākoʻo ʻana o US i ka ʻāina 
ʻIseraʻela. Makemake mākou i ka maluhia, ʻaʻole ke kaua pau ʻole. E kūkulu pū kākou i ka neʻe 
kānaka no ka pono, me ka hui pū!INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
ʻAoʻao Kuleana Aupuni a Hoʻopakele
Pelekikena
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ke kūpaʻa nei Hope Pelekikena Harris i ka hele ʻana i kahi ala hou e mālama ai i 
kā mākou mau pono kumu, me ke kuleana o ka wahine e koho, ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i kā mākou 
aupuni hoʻomalu kanaka, a hōʻoia i ka hiki i kēlā me kēia kanaka ke lanakila, ʻaʻole wale nō e 
ola. Ma kāna ʻoihana ma ke ʻano he loio, Luna Nui, Senatoa, a i kēia manawa ma ke ʻano he Hope 
Pelekikena, ua kūpaʻa mau ʻo Kamala Harris e pale aku i ka poʻe mai nā mea hoʻopunipuni, nā 
mea ʻaihue, a me nā mana ikaika. Ua hānai ʻia ʻo ia e kekahi makuahine hana i loko o kahi ʻohana 
waena, a manaʻo ʻo ia he paʻa ka waena o ke kaiāulu, paʻa pū nō hoʻi ʻo ʻAmelika, a i kona lilo 
ʻana i Pelekikena, e kau nui ana ʻo ia i ka hoʻēmi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai a me ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i 
ka palekana o ka waiwai. Hōʻoia ʻo ia e lilo ʻo ia i Pelekikena no nā ʻAmelika a pau, Pelekikena e 
hoʻohui iā kākou i kā kākou mau manaʻo kiʻekiʻe loa, a e kūpaʻa mau e hakakā no ka poʻe. Mai ka 
hale hoʻokolokolo a hiki i ka Hale Paʻa, ʻo ia ka hana o kona ola.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kamala D. Harris 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Pelekikena
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Ma hope o koʻu hele ʻana i nā mokuʻāina 50 a pau, ua ʻike wau pehea e kū hou ai 
ka pohō waiwai a me ka mana nui o ke aupuni i ka poʻe. Ma ka hoʻemi ʻana i ke kālā hoʻopau a 
me ka ho‘ololi ʻana i ke kālā kālā, hiki iā mākou ke hoʻopāha‘aha‘a i ke kumukūʻai ola a ho‘onui 
i ka waiwai no nā kānaka a pau. E hoʻopau wau i nā kaua, e hoʻihoʻi i kā mākou pūʻali koa, a e 
hoʻokaʻawale i ka Jones Act no ka ho‘emi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai hoʻouna, e hāʻawi ana i nā kānaka 
Hawai‘i i nā meaʻai i emi ka waiwai. E wehe kākou i nā mea paʻa a ke aupuni a e kōkua i ko mākou 
ʻāina e ulu hou.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
OLIVER, Chase
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Chase Russell Oliver 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Pelekikena
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ke hoʻopaʻa nei ka ʻAhahui Kākoʻo ʻAmelika i ka hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i ko mākou ʻāina 
a me ka honua ma o nā kulekele ʻona a me ka naʻauao e hoʻokumu ʻia ai i nā kumu Kākālina. 
Manaʻo ʻo Peter Sonski lāua ʻo Lauren Onak e loaʻa ana i nā kānaka a pau—ina hānau ʻole ʻia, 
maʻi, hune, a paʻa paha—he kūlana kanaka i hānau ʻia me ka hiki ʻole ke lawe ʻia aku. Hoʻohiki 
kā mākou kuleana ʻohana e ʻimi like i ka pono, me ka nānā ʻana i ke aupuni a me nā kaiāulu 
kūpono loa e hoʻokō i nā pono o nā ʻohana a me nā kaiaulu. Manaʻo mākou i ke kālaiʻāina 
mālama kaiapuni e hoʻomau i ka nānā ʻana i nā kānaka a me nā kaiāulu, a me ka mālama ʻana i 
ka honua no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. Kākoʻo mākou i nā kulekele kākoʻo ʻohana e hoʻēmi i nā 
paʻakikī hoʻokele waiwai, e hoʻolako i nā ʻohana i ka hiki ke hānai i nā keiki. Hoʻokūpaʻa mākou i 
nā limahana a me nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, me ka hoʻokumu ʻana i nā mea hoʻouluulu no ka hoʻomohala 
ʻana i ka hoʻokele waiwai kūlana like.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SONSKI, Peter
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Peter  Sonski 
ʻAoʻao ʻOnipaʻa
Pelekikena
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō12Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena - ʻōmaʻomaʻo Pāʻina (G)
 ʻO Governor Tim Walz he mea paʻa no nā ʻohana hana o Amerika. Ua komo ia i ka 
Army National Guard a ua lawelawe no 24 makahiki. Ua lawelawe ʻo Walz i kona kaiāulu ma ke 
ʻano he kumu a me ke kope pōpō – e lawe ana i kāna hui i ka hoʻokūkū mokuʻāina no ka manawa 
mua ma ke kula. Ua koho ʻia ʻo ia i ke Kongress ma kekahi kūlanakauhale i manaʻo ʻole i ka 
Republican, ma laila hoʻi i hoʻokō i ka hālāwai ʻana o ka House Veterans Affairs Committee a 
hana i kānāwai e kōkua i ka hana ʻana i ka nānā ʻana i ka poʻe kūpuna. Ma ke ʻano he governor, 
ua pōkole ʻo Walz i nā mea kānāwai, mālama i ka nui o ka insulin, kāpae i nā ʻaoʻao junk, a 
hoʻomaka i ka mālama kānāwai ma ke kuleana. Ua kū ʻo Walz no nā kuleana kumu a hana i 
kānāwai e mālama i ka kuleana o ke wahine e koho ʻana ma hope o ka hoʻokaʻawale ʻana o 
Roe e Donald Trump. He mea puʻu i nā pū a he mea hunt ʻauʻau, ua hoʻonui ʻo Walz i nā hana 
hoʻopaʻa inoa ma Minnesota. A ua hana ʻo ia me nā mea ʻē aʻe ma ke kumu hana pili i ka hoʻolālā 
pākiʻāina.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
WALZ, Tim
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Timothy J. Walz 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Hope Pelekikena
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 ʻO Professor Rudolph “Butch” Ware he mea kohoʻi a me nā kumu hoʻonaʻauao i 
hiki ke paʻa i ka mōʻaukala o ka ʻāina, ke kūʻokoʻa, ka hoʻowahāwahā, a me ke kūʻokoʻa. No nā 
makahiki e hui ʻole ai, ua hāʻawi ʻia ʻo Ware i kāna ʻike i ka poʻe, maʻalahi i ka hoʻomau ʻana i ke 
kūpua i Gaza, a me ka manaʻoʻiʻo o George Floyd i ka makahiki 2020. Ua hoʻoponopono ʻo ia i nā 
manawa hoʻomaʻamaʻa, nā kumu hoʻonaʻauao kaiāulu, a me nā hana hoʻokele a me ka mālama 
ʻana i nā hui. Ma kahi ʻē aʻe, ua hana ʻo Ware ma ke ʻano he ʻōlelo no ka lehulehu, he mea kohoʻi, 
he mea hana no nā kiʻi, a he mea hana ʻana, e kākoʻo i nā hui ma nā ʻāina a puni ka honua e kūʻē 
i ke kumukūʻai, ka hoʻowahāwahā ʻāina, a me ka kaua mau, a e kūkulu i nā ʻano kūpono, kūpono, 
a me ka maluhia ma muli o nā kaʻao ʻo Africa, nā poʻe kūʻokoʻa, a me nā manaʻo Abrahamic. ʻO 
Ware kekahi o nā kumu hana ʻike ma ʻoi loa no ka U.S. Black Radical Tradition, Africa a me Islam. 
ʻO Professor Ware he lālā ʻōlelo nui ma Northwestern, Michigan, a ʻo nā makahiki nei ma UC 
Santa-Barbara, e aʻo ana ma ka History, Black Studies, a me Islamic Studies.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
WARE, Rudolph
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Rudolph  Ware 
ʻAoʻao ʻŌmaʻomaʻo
Hope Pelekikena
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Ua haki ka ʻōnaehana politika. Ua kūʻai ʻia nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua o Wall Street. Ke haʻalele 
nei nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua i nā kānaka hana, ke nānā ʻole nei i ka hale, ka mālama ola, a me ka 
hoʻonaʻauao, ke hoʻomaikaʻi nei i ka pilikia o ke aniau, a ke hoʻopau nei i nā kālā he mau haneli 
biliona no ke kaua ʻole pau. Ma luna o ka 60% o mākou ke ʻōlelo nei ua hāʻule ka ʻōnaehana 
pālua, a pono mākou i kahi ʻaoʻao e lawelawe i nā kānaka. Ke holo nei wau no ke hāʻawi ʻana i 
kēlā koho: he hoʻolaha no nā kānaka hana, kūʻē i ke kaua, a no ka hana o ke aniau ma ka balota 
o ka ʻāina a pau. Hoʻopāpaʻi mākou i ke kālā hoʻohaumia mai nā hui a me nā biliona. E hakakā 
mākou no ke kālā e pono ai nā kānaka hana, me ka Medicare no nā mea a pau, nā hale kūpaʻa, 
ka hoʻonaʻauao kiʻekiʻe lehulehu manuahi, ka hoʻopau ʻana i ka hoʻopaʻahao nui a me ka 
hoʻopailua ʻana o nā mākaʻi, nā uku hoʻihoʻi no nā poʻe i hoʻowalewale ʻia a me nā ʻāina i lawe 
ʻia, a hou aku. Pono mākou i kahi Green New Deal maoli a me ka hoʻopau ʻana i ke kaua ʻole pau. 
A pono mākou e hoʻopau i ka make holocaust ma Palesetina.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
STEIN, Jill
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jill  Stein 
ʻAoʻao ʻŌmaʻomaʻo
Pelekikena
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Ua haʻalele au i koʻu ola kahiko no ka mea, ʻaʻole hiki iaʻu ke nānā wale i nā 
kālaiʻāina e hoʻopau ana i ko kākou ʻāina. Ma ke ʻano he Pelekikena, ua kū au i nā ʻoihana 
kūikawā, hoʻoponopono i nā ʻaelike kālepa maikaʻi ʻole, hoʻopau i nā kaua ʻē, kiaʻi i ka palena, 
a kūʻē i nā hui lāʻau lapaʻau a me Kina. Me ke kōkua pū, ua hāʻawi mākou i ka mana i ka poʻe a 
kiaʻi i ʻAmelika mua. Akā i kēia lā, ke wāwahi nei ka aupuni palaho i ko kākou ʻāina. Ke ʻike nei 
mākou i nā kūʻē i ka ʻōlelo kūʻokoʻa, ka piʻi ʻana o ka hana kolohe, nā poʻe hoʻokolohe e komo 
ana i kā kākou palena, a me ka hoʻoʻeha ʻana o ka hoʻokele waiwai. Ke hoʻoweliweli ʻia nei ko 
kākou kūʻokoʻa, ka poʻe, a me ka hilinaʻi. ʻO kā mākou neʻe ʻana e Hoʻokipa Hou iā ʻAmelika 
ka ikaika loa e hoʻihoʻi i ka palekana, ka waiwai, a me ka maluhia. E hoʻopuka au i ka ikehu o 
ʻAmelika, hou nā hoʻēmi ʻauhau, hoʻokuʻu i nā lula paʻakikī, a hoʻopau i ka lilo kālā ʻemi. Ua 
kūkulu mākou i ka hoʻokele waiwai ikaika loa ma mua, a e hana hou mākou ia. Me ka hui pū, e 
hoʻihoʻi mākou i ka ikaika a me ka waiwai o ʻAmelika.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TRUMP, Donald J.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Donald John Trump 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Pelekikena
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō13Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena - Repubalika Pāʻina (R)
 He mea hoʻonohonoho a he kumu ʻo Karina Garcia, he Chicana, a ua hoʻomaka ʻo ia 
e hakakā no ka wā e hiki mai ana mai kona makahiki 17 . Ma hope o ka loaʻa ʻana o ke kālā komo 
piha i Columbia, ua aʻo ʻo Karina ma ke ʻano he kumu kālaikūlohea i ke kula kiʻekiʻe. Ua kōkua ʻo 
ia i ke alakaʻi ʻana i nā hoʻolālā no nā kuleana hāpai, nā kuleana o nā limahana hale, nā kuleana 
piha no nā malihini, a me ka hoʻokuʻu ʻana i ka ʻaiʻē haumāna. Ke noi nei kēia hoʻolālā i kahi 
hoʻokele waiwai hou loa i hoʻokau ʻia no ka ʻaoʻao hana, ʻaʻole no nā kānaka waiwai. Hiki i ke 
aupuni hana ke hoʻokō i nā pono kanaka – e like me ka mālama ola manuahi, ka hoʻonaʻauao 
manuahi ma nā papa āpau, ka mālama keiki manuahi, ka hale kūpono, a me nā hana hui ʻana 
he kuleana kumu. Ke holo nei ʻo Claudia lāua ʻo Karina me ka ʻAhahui no ka Socialism a me ka 
Hoʻokuʻikahi (PSL), ke hakakā nei no nā pono koke o ka poʻe hune a me ka poʻe hana, a no kahi 
kaiāulu hou – ka socialism. ʻAʻole wale nō kēia hoʻolālā no hoʻokahi koho balota, akā he hoʻolālā 
ia no ke kūkulu ʻana i kahi neʻe nui e kūʻokoʻa mai nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua kākoʻo kālepa.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
GARCIA, Karina
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Karina  Garcia 
ʻAoʻao Kuleana Aupuni a Hoʻopakele
Hope Pelekikena
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ua hoʻouna ʻia he ʻōlelo hui no nā moho Pelekikena a me Hope Pelekikena.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ONAK, Lauren
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Lauren M. Onak 
ʻAoʻao ʻOnipaʻa
Hope Pelekikena
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Ua loaʻa iā Mike ter Maat kahi ʻoihana kūleʻa i ka ʻepekema waiwai i hāpai ʻia e kāna 
hana ma ka White House Office of Management and Budget a me ke aʻo ʻana ma ke kulanui. Ma 
Washington DC, ua kākoʻo ʻo ia no nā mākeke lawelawe kālā kūʻokoʻa hou aʻe. Ua lawelawe 
ʻo Mike ter Maat ma ke ʻano he mākaʻi ma Broward County FL no 11.5 makahiki. Ua ʻike ʻo ia i 
ka pono no nā hoʻololi koʻikoʻi i ka hoʻopaʻi kānāwai, me ka hoʻohui ʻana i ka uku me ka hana 
a me ka pani ʻana i ka kūʻokoʻa koʻikoʻi me ka inikua kuleana pilikino. Ke kau nei ʻo ter Maat i 
kahi kulekele ʻāina ʻē e kālele ana i ka pono a me ka pale ʻana i ka komo pū ʻana ma waho o ka 
ʻae kālā a me ka komo koa, ʻoiai ke hoʻohana nei i ke kālepa e hoʻoikaika a hōʻoia i nā pilina. 
Ke noi nei ʻo ter Maat i nā paepae liʻiliʻi i ka hoʻoili kūpono a me nā kumuwaiwai palena no ka 
hoʻokolokolo wikiwiki ʻana. Ke kākoʻo nei ʻo Mike ter Maat i ka hoʻokaʻawale ʻana i ke aupuni no 
ka hoʻopau ʻana i ka mana aupuni a me ka mālama ʻana i kā mākou Kānāwai Kūlana.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TER MAAT, Mike
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Michael A. ter Maat 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Hope Pelekikena
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 He hanohano ia ke kū pū me Pelekikena Donald J. Trump ke hana nei mākou e hoʻihoʻi 
i kēia lāhui nui. ʻOiai nā hoʻouka hoʻomau ʻole, ʻaʻole pau ka hoʻolaʻa ʻana o Pelekikena Trump 
i ka poʻe Amelika. ʻAʻole ʻo ia i komo i ke kūʻokoʻa no kona pono iho – ua hana ʻo ia no ka mea 
i pono ʻia e ʻAmelika. Hoʻokau ʻo Pelekikena Trump i ka ʻAmelika ma mua, ke hakakā nei no 
nā limahana, nā ʻohana, a me nā kaiāulu. Ma lalo o kāna alakaʻi ʻana, ʻike mākou i ka hoʻokele 
waiwai ikaika loa, nā palena palekana, a me ka haʻaheo hou o ʻAmelika. Ke kūʻē nei ke kūkulu ma 
Washington iā ia no ka mea ke hana nei ʻo ia no ʻoe, ʻaʻole no lākou. He koʻikoʻi kēia koho balota. 
Ma lalo o Joe Biden, ʻike mākou i ka hoʻokele waiwai nāwaliwali, ka kūwaho kūpono ʻole, a me 
ka piʻi ʻana o ka lawehala. ʻO Kamala Harris e hoʻonui wale i ka pilikia. Akā me Pelekikena Trump, 
hiki iā mākou ke hoʻihoʻi i ka ikaika a me ka waiwai a mākou i hauʻoli ai ma mua. Haʻaheo wau e 
kū pū me Pelekikena Trump a noi i kāu balota. E koho hou iā ia a hoʻomau i ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ka 
hanohano o ʻAmelika. Mahalo, a e hoʻomaikaʻi mai ke Akua iā ʻAmelika.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
VANCE, JD
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
James David Vance 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Hope Pelekikena
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
 Ua haki ka ʻōnaehana politika. Ua kūʻai ʻia nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua o Wall Street. Ke haʻalele 
nei nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua i nā kānaka hana, ke nānā ʻole nei i ka hale, ka mālama ola, a me ka 
hoʻonaʻauao, ke hoʻomaikaʻi nei i ka pilikia o ke aniau, a ke hoʻopau nei i nā kālā he mau haneli 
biliona no ke kaua ʻole pau. Ma luna o ka 60% o mākou ke ʻōlelo nei ua hāʻule ka ʻōnaehana 
pālua, a pono mākou i kahi ʻaoʻao e lawelawe i nā kānaka. Ke holo nei wau no ke hāʻawi ʻana i 
kēlā koho: he hoʻolaha no nā kānaka hana, kūʻē i ke kaua, a no ka hana o ke aniau ma ka balota 
o ka ʻāina a pau. Hoʻopāpaʻi mākou i ke kālā hoʻohaumia mai nā hui a me nā biliona. E hakakā 
mākou no ke kālā e pono ai nā kānaka hana, me ka Medicare no nā mea a pau, nā hale kūpaʻa, 
ka hoʻonaʻauao kiʻekiʻe lehulehu manuahi, ka hoʻopau ʻana i ka hoʻopaʻahao nui a me ka 
hoʻopailua ʻana o nā mākaʻi, nā uku hoʻihoʻi no nā poʻe i hoʻowalewale ʻia a me nā ʻāina i lawe 
ʻia, a hou aku. Pono mākou i kahi Green New Deal maoli a me ka hoʻopau ʻana i ke kaua ʻole pau. 
A pono mākou e hoʻopau i ka make holocaust ma Palesetina.INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
STEIN, Jill
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jill  Stein 
ʻAoʻao ʻŌmaʻomaʻo
Pelekikena
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Ua haʻalele au i koʻu ola kahiko no ka mea, ʻaʻole hiki iaʻu ke nānā wale i nā 
kālaiʻāina e hoʻopau ana i ko kākou ʻāina. Ma ke ʻano he Pelekikena, ua kū au i nā ʻoihana 
kūikawā, hoʻoponopono i nā ʻaelike kālepa maikaʻi ʻole, hoʻopau i nā kaua ʻē, kiaʻi i ka palena, 
a kūʻē i nā hui lāʻau lapaʻau a me Kina. Me ke kōkua pū, ua hāʻawi mākou i ka mana i ka poʻe a 
kiaʻi i ʻAmelika mua. Akā i kēia lā, ke wāwahi nei ka aupuni palaho i ko kākou ʻāina. Ke ʻike nei 
mākou i nā kūʻē i ka ʻōlelo kūʻokoʻa, ka piʻi ʻana o ka hana kolohe, nā poʻe hoʻokolohe e komo 
ana i kā kākou palena, a me ka hoʻoʻeha ʻana o ka hoʻokele waiwai. Ke hoʻoweliweli ʻia nei ko 
kākou kūʻokoʻa, ka poʻe, a me ka hilinaʻi. ʻO kā mākou neʻe ʻana e Hoʻokipa Hou iā ʻAmelika 
ka ikaika loa e hoʻihoʻi i ka palekana, ka waiwai, a me ka maluhia. E hoʻopuka au i ka ikehu o 
ʻAmelika, hou nā hoʻēmi ʻauhau, hoʻokuʻu i nā lula paʻakikī, a hoʻopau i ka lilo kālā ʻemi. Ua 
kūkulu mākou i ka hoʻokele waiwai ikaika loa ma mua, a e hana hou mākou ia. Me ka hui pū, e 
hoʻihoʻi mākou i ka ikaika a me ka waiwai o ʻAmelika.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TRUMP, Donald J.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Donald John Trump 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Pelekikena
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō14Kenekoa ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa 
 E hoʻopau pū kākou i ke kālepa kanaka a me ka lawe ʻana i ka lāʻau lapaʻau! “ʻAʻole 
hiki iā ʻoe ke hoʻoholo i kahi pilikia me ka noʻonoʻo like i kumu ai.” -Albert Einstein No laila, He 
maʻalahi ka hopena: Pono mākou e hoʻololi i nā mea a “E lilo i hoʻololi a mākou e makemake 
ai e ʻike i ka honua” - Mahatma Gandhi E lilo i Hero no kou ola ponoʻī a hoʻoulu i kā mākou 
mau hanauna e hiki mai ana e hana i ka honua i wahi maikaʻi. Manaʻoʻiʻo ʻo Pikachu iā Self 
Sufficiency! E aʻo pehea e kūkulu ai i kou Hale ponoʻī (hale), E aʻo pehea e ola ai i waho o ka Grid, 
E aʻo pehea e hoʻopukapuka kālā a kūʻai aku me ka crypto, a e lilo i ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi ma mua o 
kou i nehinei. FYI, ua hānai ʻia ʻo Master Shelby Billionaire mai Waiʻanae mai kahi hale ʻo Quonset 
a ua ulu ʻo ia e nānā iā Voltron, Ninja Turtles, Care Bears, Thundercats, & Captain Planet. Nou ka 
Mana! Inā makemake ʻoe iā Super Heroes Vote 4 Pikachu! Cheeeehuuuuuu Facebook @Shelby 
Keiki’okalani IG @Legendarybillionaire Youtube @SuperShelbyBillionaire Mahalo Nui Loa!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
BILLIONAIRE, Shelby Pikachu
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Shelby  Billionaire 
ʻO Kākou Nā Makaʻāinana
Kenekoa U.S.
hawaiiankingdom.org
presidentbillionaire@gmail.com
(808) 747-7336
 ʻOiai ʻo kou Kenekoa ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa, ke hakakā nei au ma kou ʻaoʻao i kēlā me 
kēia lā e hoʻohaʻahaʻa i nā kumukūʻai a hoʻomaikaʻi i ke ola no nā kānaka a me nā ʻohana ma 
Hawaiʻi. Inā e hana ana e hoʻonui i nā manawa hoʻonaʻauao no kā mākou keiki, e hoʻoikaika i 
nā papahana koʻikoʻi e like me Social Security a me Medicare no ko mākou mau kūpuna, a i ʻole 
e hōʻoia i nā luna kānāwai kūpono a paʻa, paʻa wau i ka hōʻoia ʻana e loaʻa i ko mākou kaiāulu 
ke kākoʻo e pono ai lākou. I koʻu noho ʻana i ka Senate, ua hoʻolilo mākou i mau piliona no ka 
hoʻololi ʻana i nā ʻōnaehana o ko mākou lāhui, hoʻohaʻahaʻa i nā kumukūʻai mālama ola no ko 
mākou mau kūpuna, a hana i nā hana mōʻaukala e kūʻē i ka hoʻololi ʻana i ke aniau. Ke holo nei 
au no ke koho hou ʻana e kūkulu ma luna o ka holomua a mākou i hana ai a pale i kā mākou 
demokala. ʻO koʻu hanohano ke koho ʻana iā ʻoe i ka ʻAha kenekoa, a ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i kāu 
koho pāloka i kēia koho pāloka.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HIRONO, Mazie K.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Mazie K. Hirono 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa U.S.
mazieforhawaii.com
info@mazieforhawaii.com
(808) 453-0555
 E lanakila, e holo ana i ke Akua i nā paipai kālaiʻāina, e alakaʻi ana iaʻu iho i ka 
hoʻokeonimana ʻana i ka ʻoiaʻiʻo ma Kristo me ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ka pono i loko o kā mākou 
kamaʻilio lehulehu, Hoʻopau i nā kaua pau ʻole, pale i nā kuleana makua a me nā haumāna mai ka 
hoʻpāʻēʻē ʻana e pili ana i ke keka mai, a me ka hoʻoponopono ʻana i kā mākou moku kālā e hana 
ai loaʻa i nā ʻohana ka manawa e ulu ai a holomua. Makua kāne no 8, kupuna kāne no 13, koa 
kahiko USMC a me Desert Storm, 16 makahiki o ka Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi Lunamakaʻāinana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MCDERMOTT, Bob
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Robert C. McDermott 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa U.S.
www.votemcdermott.com
Representativemcdermott@gmail.com
(808) 371-4605
 ʻO Emma Jane Avila Pohlman koʻu inoa. Hoʻomaʻamaʻa au i ke kānāwai honua a 
hoʻoponopono i nā hoʻopaʻapaʻa. Ua loaʻa iaʻu kaʻu Kauka Juris mai Loyola Law School ma hope 
o ke aʻo ʻana i ka ʻepekema a me ka ʻepekema politika ma ke Kulanui o Southern Kaleponi (USC). 
Kākoʻo au i nā kumu a me ka hoʻomalu pono. ʻO ka wai koʻu manaʻo nui. Pono kēlā me kēia 
kanaka Hawaiʻi i ka wai maʻemaʻe. ʻO kēia ka hana nui o ko kākou aupuni.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
POHLMAN, Emma Jane Avila
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Emma Jane Avila Pohlman 
ʻAoʻao ʻŌmaʻomaʻo
Kenekoa U.S.
emmajanehawaii@icloud.com
(808) 960-76802024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō15Lunamakaʻāinana ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa I
 Aloha. Ua nui nō nā pilikia o kēia wā, no laila, ʻaʻole pono ka mokuāhana a me ka 
noho moloā. Pono nō nā alakaʻi ikaika na lākou ʻimi i ka hana e malu ai nā pilikia. Ua hānau a 
hānai ʻia wau i Hilo, aia ma laila koʻu ēwe ʻohana. Ua paʻa wau i ka ʻoihana kānāwai a me ka 
ʻona hui hana, ʻewalu oʻu makahiki i hana ai ma loko o ka ʻAhaʻōlelo Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi me 
ka lōkahi nō. He ʻumi nō oʻu makahiki ma ka noho kūlana oʻo ma ka ʻAhaʻōlelo i kēia manawa. 
Ua koʻikoʻi nō hoʻi koʻu mau kuleana ma ka ʻAhaʻōlelo, ʻo ke Kōmike Māhelehele Kālā nō kekahi, 
nāna hoʻolako i ke kālā i ke aupuni pekelala. Ua paio nō au no nā papa hana holomua loa no ko 
kākou aupuni e hoʻomalu ai i nā pōpilikia, ʻo ke COVID nō, ka hihia o Pūkākī, a me Maui nō kekahi. 
ʻO koʻu manaʻoʻiʻo, he pono nō kākou e ʻimi i ka mea e pono ai ma ka huliāmahi ʻana. Aʻole ʻuā a 
walaʻau ʻAlo i nā pilikia me ka ʻoiaʻiʻo, hoʻoikaika nō i ka hana ā pau pono. Pēlā nō ka hana. Pēlā 
nō kaʻu hana. ʻO ia koʻu manaʻo. Ke nonoi aku nei au i ko ʻoukou kākoʻo mai. Mahalo nui nō.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
CASE, Ed
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Edward E. Case 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana U.S., Moku I
www.edcase.com
edcase@edcase.com
(808) 546-9509
 Aloha! ʻO wau ʻo Patrick Largey, a ke hoʻopaʻapaʻa nei au no ka hale luna kānāwai 
ma ka Apana Kānāwai mua o Hawaiʻi. ua hānau ʻia au a hānai ʻia ma Hudson, Massachusetts, 
a ua lilo ʻo Hawaiʻi i koʻu home mai koʻu kūlana ʻana ma ʻaneʻi me ka US Air Force i ka 
makahiki 1985. Mālama wau i ka na kānaka, ka ʻāina, a me nā kūlana. Kākoʻo au a pale wau i ke 
Kumukānāwai o ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa. Kāko ʻO wau I ke ola, ke kākoʻo nei i ka 2nd Amendment, a 
kākoʻo i ka pūʻali koa a me nā Luna Mākaʻi o ʻAmelika. Ua lawelawe au i 23 mau makahiki me 
ka pūʻali koa a me nā Luna Mākaʻi. Ua lilo ka lawelawe ʻana i nā kānaka i koʻu makemake nui, a 
ʻo ia ke kumu e holo ai au no ka oihana. Aloha au i ko mākou ʻāina, akā ʻaʻole wau makemake i 
nā papahana a me nā kulekele hoʻoʻino o ka pelekikena i kēia manawa. ʻAʻole e Pono nā kānaka 
o Hawaiʻi i ka mea ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi. Pono mākou e hoʻonohonoho i kā mākou mau kumukūʻai 
kālā, a e hoʻōki i ka hoʻolilo ʻana i nā kālā i nā ʻāina ʻaʻole makemake nui iā mākou.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
LARGEY, Patrick C.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Patrick C. Largey 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana U.S., Moku I
freedom4hawaii.com
patricklargey4congress@gmail.com
(808) 304-4006
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō16Lunamakaʻāinana ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa II
 Hanau ma Honolulu, noho ma Maui. Loaʻa iaʻu ke kumu e nānā a loiloi i nā kūlana 
kālā e kū nei mākou a pau i ka mahalo i koʻu kēkelē ma Economics. Ke emi nei ka mana kūʻai. 
ʻO ka manaʻolana kekahi hopena o ka poʻe e hoʻāʻo nei e hoʻolako i ko lākou ʻohana. E pale aku 
au i ka pono o na kamaaina o ko kakou kaona nei no ka mea, ua hooikaika au i ke ahonui, ka 
pono, a me ka Uhane Aloha. ʻElua mau ʻaoʻao kālaiʻāina nui, a pono e hōʻike ʻia ʻo Hawaiʻi ma 
Wakinekona e nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua i mea e loaʻa ai kahi kūpono ma ka papaʻaina. ʻO wau kēlā kanaka. 
Pono nā mea manawaleʻa no kaʻu hoʻolaha. Nīnau ʻia nā mea hāʻawi kālā. E koho iaʻu e hōʻike i 
kou mau makemake!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
BOND, Steve
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Steven R. Bond 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana U.S., Moku II
votestevebond.com
votestevebond@gmail.com
(808) 756-3638
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MEYER, Randall Kelly
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Randall Kelly Meyer 
Kūlike ʻole
Lunamakaʻāinana U.S., Moku II
randallmeyer2000@yahoo.com
(541) 521-4639
 Mai Pāpaʻaloa ma ka mokupuni ʻo Hawaiʻi, a hiki i Puʻunēnē i Maui, a i Puhi i Kauaʻi, a 
i koʻu ʻāina hānau ʻo Kāneʻohe–ua kapa ʻia ko mākou ʻohana i home no nā hanauna ʻelima. Noʻu, 
he pilikino ka lawelawe ʻana ma ka ʻAhaʻōlelo a pili i ka hōʻoia ʻana e ʻike ka hanauna e hiki mai 
ana i ka wā e hiki mai ana no lākou iho ma kēia wahi a mākou e aloha ai. E pili ana i ka hōʻoia 
ʻana e kūkulu mākou i nā hale kūpono. Ke hana nei e hoʻomaikaʻi i ke komo ʻana i nā lawelawe 
mālama olakino a me nā lawelawe olakino noʻonoʻo. Hāʻawi i nā manawa hoʻonaʻauao a me nā 
hana maikaʻi. ʻO ka hoʻemi ʻana i ke kumukūʻai o ke ola no nā mea āpau mai ka meaʻai a me 
nā pono hana i ka ʻaila a me nā lāʻau lapaʻau. Ma ke ʻano he makuahine, lawe wau i ka manaʻo 
wikiwiki i ka ʻAhaʻōlelo e hoʻokō i nā mea a mālama i ko mākou poʻe koho a me nā kaiāulu me he 
ʻohana lākou. Ua hana pū mākou i nā mea he nui, akā nui nā mea i koe e hana ai. Ke noi haahaa 
aku nei au i kou noonoo a me kou koho balota.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TOKUDA, Jill N.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jill N. Tokuda 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana U.S., Moku II
tokudaforhawaii.com
jill@tokudaforhawaii.com
 Ua hānai ʻia ʻo Aaron Toman ma Oahu a ua noho ʻo ia i ka hapa nui o kona ola makua 
ma ka ʻaoʻao Hilo o Big Island. Ua ʻike ʻo ʻAʻarona ʻaʻohe mea e hele mai ana e hoʻoponopono i 
ko mākou ʻāina politika, inā makemake ʻo ia e ʻike i ka loli, pono ʻo ia ka loli! Wehe ʻia ka paepae 
helu 11 a Aarona i ʻekolu ʻāpana: Fix Congress, Fix the Lation, Fix Hawaii: ʻO nā pilikia koʻikoʻi loa, 
ʻo ia ka Congressional Term Limits, US Territories’ Voting Rights, Hawaii-specific Amendments 
to the Jones Act, a me ka Wehe ʻia ʻana o ke Kuleana mai ka Pūnaehana Kānāwai. Manaʻo ʻia 
ʻoe e nānā i ke kahua holoʻokoʻa o Aaron ma LimitThePower.com. E hōʻole hope nā ʻAmelika i 
ka ʻōnaehana ʻelua ʻaoʻao ma 2024! E hana i ka moʻolelo ma ke koho ʻana i ka Luna Ahaolelo 
Libertarian mua mai Hawaiʻi a me ke alakaʻi liʻiliʻi hale mua mai kahi ʻaoʻao ʻekolu o ka ʻāina! ʻO 
Aaron Toman ke koho 3 a me ka koho mua o Hawaiʻi!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TOMAN, Aaron
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Aaron M. Toman 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Lunamakaʻāinana U.S., Moku II
www.limitthepower.com
limitthepowerhi@gmail.com
(808) 756-0790
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō17Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 3
 Mahalo nui wau i ka pono e lawelawe ma ke ʻano he Senatoa no ka Moku 3 mai ka 
makahiki 2018, kahi manawa i hoʻonoho kūʻokoʻa iaʻu e kōkua i nā pono o ko mākou kaiāulu, 
kahi i loaʻa iaʻu nā aʻa hohonu. Mai ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i ka loaʻa ʻana o nā hale kūʻai kūpono, 
ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i ka ʻōnaehana hoʻonaʻauao o ka Mokuʻāina, a me ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i ka 
hoʻokele waiwai, a hiki i ke kākoʻo ʻana i nā ʻōhua o ka ʻāina, ʻo koʻu manaʻo nui ke hoʻomau nei 
i ka hoʻonui ʻana i nā leo o Kona, Kaʻū, a me ka lua pele ma ke Kapitola. Ma ke ʻano he alakaʻi nui 
o ka Senate, ua hoʻohana maikaʻi au i koʻu kuleana alakaʻi e hōʻoia i ke kaulike no ka mokupuni 
ʻo Hawaiʻi. Me kou kākoʻo, ke kakali nei au i ka hoʻomau ʻana i ka hakakā no nā kulekele e hāpai 
ana i nā kamaʻāina āpau a mālama i ke ʻano kūʻokoʻa o ko mākou Mokuʻāina. Ke kūpaʻa nei au 
e hoʻomau i ka lawelawe ʻana i ka ʻApana Senate 3, e hāʻawi ana i nā hopena e pōmaikaʻi ai ko 
mākou Mokuʻāina no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. Mahalo ma mua no kou hilinaʻi a hoʻomau i ka 
pilina.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KANUHA, Dru Mamo
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Dru Mamo Kanuha 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 3
drukanuha.com
info@drukanuha.com
(808) 329-4067
 E apo ana i ke au hou o ka kalaiaina ma Hawaii me ka manao ma’amau! E 
ho‘omākaukau kākou no ka loli maikaʻi, ka mālamalama, a me ka holomua. Pū me ka ‘oukou, hiki 
iā kākou ke ho‘ololi i ka wā e hiki mai ana no ko kākou mokupuni aloha.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SULLIVAN, Kurt (Sulli)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kurt E. Sullivan 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 3
kurt.sullivan@sulburk.com
(808) 300-9809
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō18Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 6
 Aloha! ʻO wau ʻo Angus McKelvey a mahalo wau iā ʻoe a me kou ʻohana no ka pono 
o ka lawelawe ʻana ma ke ʻano he Kenekoa Mokuʻāina. Hānau ʻia a hānai ʻia ma ʻaneʻi, ʻo koʻu 
kāhea ʻana e pale iā Hawaiʻi a me kāna kumu waiwai nui - ko kākou poʻe. Ua paʻa wau i nā hale 
kūʻai kūpono; hoʻokuʻu ʻauhau waena; a me nā hana hoʻomau e mālama i ko kākou kaiapuni a 
kōkua i nā ʻohana e ulu aʻe. Ua kūʻē au i nā hoʻoholo o nā mana mamao a ke hoʻomau nei au i ke 
koi ʻana i ka ʻike a me ke komo ʻana mai ko mākou aupuni. Kū wau me ko Maui poʻe kamaʻāina 
ʻoiai ke hoʻomau nei ko mākou mokupuni i nā hakakā e pili ana i ke ahi o Lahaina. Me kāu koho, e 
hoʻomau wau i ka hana e hoʻonohonoho a hoʻoholo i nā hana aupuni a me nā ʻoihana e pili ana 
iā mākou; a hoʻopaʻa i nā kālā e pono ai no ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana o Maui. Ke kūpaʻa nei au i ko mākou 
ola, ho’ōla, a me ke kūpaʻa. E ala aʻe kākou mai ka lehu mai a e hōʻoia i ko kākou poʻe i ka wā e 
hiki mai ana ka mālamalama, palekana, a paʻa.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MCKELVEY, Angus L.K.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Angus L.K. McKelvey 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 6
mac4senate6@gmail.com
(808) 870-8644
 Makemake ʻoe e ʻike iā Maui e hoʻomau i kona nani ALOHA maoli a me ka 
moʻomeheu Hawaiʻi waiwai? Makemake ʻoe e loaʻa i nā hale kūpono, nā lako a me nā hana uku 
maikaʻi? ʻAʻole pono mākou e koho; hiki iā māua ʻelua! E koho mai iaʻu a naʻu e pale aku i ko 
kākou mokupuni maikaʻi mai nā ʻoihana a i ʻole nā mea hoʻopukapuka haole e mahalo ʻole i ka 
ʻāina a me kona poʻe. ʻAʻohe o mākou manawa e hoʻomāʻewaʻewa; Makemake au e lohe ʻia 
kou mau leo; ka manawa i kēia manawa! Ke hoʻohiki nei au e launa pū me ke kaiāulu ma ke ʻano 
pinepine, e aloha i kou mau manaʻo, a e hoʻohana i ka COMMON SENSE e ʻimi i nā hoʻonā ma ka 
ʻahaʻōlelo. E hana maikaʻi kākou loaʻa iaʻu ka ikaika, ka hoihoi, a me ka kūpaʻa e mālama iā Maui 
nō ka ʻoi. Koho no Sheila Walker. Pono ke Kaiāulu o Maui e hele mua!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
WALKER, Sheila
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Sheila A. Walker 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 6
votesheilawalker.com
votesheilawalker@gmail.com
(808) 344-8644
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō19Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 7
 Aloha, ʻO Lynn Pualani DeCoite koʻu inoa, a ke noi aku nei au i kou kōkua e hoʻomau 
ma koʻu kūlana i loko o kou kauā a puni kā mākou Aupuni i ke kūlana o ke Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, 
Moku 7 . I ka hānau ʻia ma Honolulu a ka hoʻoponopono ʻia ma Molokaʻi, ua hoʻomaʻamaʻa ʻia au 
ma ka mahina ʻai ʻohana i ka hana no ka lōkahi ma ka mahiʻai a me ka mālama i ke kaipuni. Me 
ka hoʻomaopopo i ka maopopo, ka hoʻokolokolo, a me ke kūkulu kūʻokoʻa, ua hoʻonohonoho ʻia 
au e alakaʻi i nā leo ʻehā a me nā pono ʻehā o ko kākou kaiāulu. Ua hoʻokō ʻia koʻu hoʻokō ʻana 
i ka hoʻonui ʻana i nā ola o nā mea lawe manaʻo a pau. Ma koʻu kūlana he Kiaʻāina Pāʻoihana 
Kūikawā a me ka Luna Hoʻomahala Ikehu a Waiwai, a ma koʻu kūlana he Puʻukū o ke Kōmike, 
e mālama mau ana au i ka hoʻonui ʻana i ka hoʻoulu ʻai, ka kākoʻo i nā hale noho kūpono i ke 
kanaka, a me ka mālama ʻāina. Ma kēia mau manawa hoʻokolohua, ʻo ka hoʻoikaika i ka leo o kā 
kākou kaiāulu kēia koʻu kuleana. Makemake nō ko ʻoukou leo, a ua hiki mai au e hāʻawi i ka ʻike 
ʻia. Ke noi aku nei au i kou kōkua e hōʻike mai i ka hoʻomau ʻana i koʻu lawelawe iā ʻoe ma ke 
kauā ʻanno ke kūlana o ke Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 7 .
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DECOITE, Lynn Pualani
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Lynn P. DeCoite 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 7
lynndecoite.org
friendsoflynndecoite@gmail.com
 Ua hānau ʻia ma ka Mokupuni Pākīpika ʻo Guam, ua aʻo au i ka waiwai o ka hana 
ikaika i koʻu wā kamaliʻi ma ke kōkua ʻana i ka hoʻokele ʻana i ka hale kūʻai liʻiliʻi a me ka 
mahiʻai a ko mākou ʻohana. Ma ka makahiki 16, aia wau i loko o ka limahana, e hoʻonui ana i 
nā loina hana maikaʻi e hoʻokumu i ka waiwai i ka poʻe aʻu e hoʻopuni nei. I ka makahiki 19, ua 
mālama au i ʻehā mau hale kūʻai e hāʻawi mai iaʻu i ka ʻike i ke alakaʻi. I ka makahiki 2005, ua 
komo au i ka USCG, e lawelawe ana i na makahiki eono ma Oahu. I ka makahiki 2013, ua komo au 
i ka limahana o Maui a me kaʻu huakaʻi ʻoihana mua i Maui, ua hoʻokumu i ka pilina hohonu i 
kona nani i mālama ʻia, e hoʻomanaʻo ana iā Guam. Mai ia manawa, he Luna Palekana au, Luna 
Hoomalu, Luna Hoomalu, a i keia manawa ka Luna Hooponopono no ke Kalana ‘o Maui. ʻO Maui 
koʻu home, e apo ana i kāna moʻomeheu a kūpaʻa i ka mālama ʻana. ʻO ka pale ʻana i nā ʻāina a 
me ke kaiāulu, hoʻomaikaʻi wau i kēlā me kēia manawa i kēia paradaiso.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MACARAEG, Gabby
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Gabby Junior C. Macaraeg 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 7
gabbymacaraeg.maui@gmail.com
(808) 657-3175
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō20Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 12
 Aloha, ʻo Shotaro Dabbs koʻu inoa. Hānau ʻia a hānai ʻia ma Waikiki, ua like au me 
nā poʻe ʻē aʻe he nui nā hakakā i koʻu wā kamaliʻi, me ka hoʻopaʻa ʻia ʻana o koʻu makuakāne a 
me ka home ʻole. Ua hānai ʻia au e kekahi makuahine hoʻokahi paʻakikī i hana i nā hola lōʻihi no 
ka loaʻa ʻana o ka pono. Ua hoʻonui kēia mau ʻike i koʻu kūpaʻa i ko mākou kaiāulu. Ke holo nei 
au e pani iā ʻoe i ka Senate Mokuʻāina no ka Moku 12. ʻO kaʻu mau mea nui ka hoʻemi i ka home 
ʻole, hoʻonui i ka palekana lehulehu, a hoʻonui i ka hoʻonaʻauao. Hiki iā mākou ke kūkulu i ka wā 
e hiki mai ana no Hawaii ma o ka hoʻonui ʻana i nā lawelawe olakino noʻonoʻo, hoʻonui i nā hana 
palekana o ka lehulehu, a me ka hāʻawi ʻana i nā kumu kūʻokoʻa e hoʻoikaika i ke aʻo ʻana o 
kēlā me kēia kanaka. Manaʻo wau ʻo ka hu pū ʻanā a me ke komo ʻana mai o ke kaiāulu e kōkua 
maikaʻi iā mākou hoʻoponopono pono i kā mākou mau pilikia. Mahalo no kou kākoʻo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DABBS, Shotaro
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Shotaro L. Dabbs 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 12
shotarodabbs.com
shotarodabbs2024@gmail.com
(808) 548-1362
 Ma ke ano he Senate Kemokalaka, ua hanohano au e lawelawe ia oe ma Kakaako, 
Ala Moana, Moiliili, McCully, a me Waikiki. Ua hana au ma ka ʻAha Kuhina o Kāpena Waihee ma ke 
ʻano he hope o ka ʻoihana limahana a me ka luna hoʻomalu limahana; ma ka ‘Aha Ho’okolokolo 
ma ke ‘ano he Luna hoʻokolokolo; a ma UH ma ke ano he hope pelekikena kokua. ʻO ka home 
ʻole, ka hana ʻino a me ka walaʻau, ka piʻi ʻana o ka ʻilikai, ka nele o nā wahi ʻōmaʻomaʻo, a 
me nā kūpuna a me nā keiki hemahema kekahi o nā pilikia nui o ko mākou kaiāulu nani. I kēia 
manawa, ua kamaʻilio mākou i ka walaʻau, ua hoʻoneʻe i ka poʻe ʻole, ua hoʻokō i ka hoʻomalu 
hewa “Palekana” , a mālama i ke kahakai ʻo Kakaako i nā wahi kiʻekiʻe. Pono mākou i nā hāʻina 
piha e hoʻopau ai i ka home ʻole ma o ke keʻena home ʻole a puni ka mokuʻāina, hana i nā hale 
kūʻai kūpono, hoʻokō i nā kānāwai e kūʻē i ka poʻe lawehala hoʻomau, hoʻemi i ka walaʻau 
nui, hoʻolako kālā mālama home no nā kūpuna a me nā ala ʻoihana no nā keiki, a hoʻokō i ka 
hoʻomākaukau piʻi ʻana o ke kai. Aia wau e lawelawe iā ʻoe. Hiki iā mākou ke hana i kahi kaiāulu 
maikaʻi a me ka mokuʻāina. E ʻoluʻolu e “Koho Sharon.”
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MORIWAKI, Sharon Y.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Sharon Y. Moriwaki 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 12
sharonmoriwaki.com
sharonymoriwaki@gmail.com
(808) 428-1348
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō21Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 16
 Pono ʻo Hawaiʻi e ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi ma mua o ka mea i loaʻa iā ia. Hānau ʻia a hānai 
ʻia ma Hawaiʻi, ʻo ia koʻu home a me koʻu ʻohana nui. Ua ʻike au i nā loli nui i koʻu ola ʻana—he 
nui nā mea kupanaha a, ʻaʻole naʻe, nui nā mea i ʻoi aku ka ʻino. I koʻu noho ʻana ma ke ʻano he 
kanaka makua ma ka ʻāina nui no 30 mau makahiki, Iapana no 13, a me Kanada no 1, maopopo 
iaʻu nā manaʻo o nā wahi ʻē aʻe a me nā poʻe ʻē aʻe. Ua hoʻolauna mai koʻu makuakāne i ke 
Kumukānāwai o ʻAmelika iaʻu i koʻu wā kamaliʻi loa a ua hauʻoli wau i kēlā makahiki i kona pale 
ʻana i nā pono o ka poʻe liʻiliʻi. ʻO koʻu manaʻo ua maikaʻi ke kani. Aia kēia mau kuleana ma lalo 
o ka hoʻoweliweli ma mua o ka wā ma mua (CBDC, nā koi hou o ka lāʻau lapaʻau, nā koi mask, a 
pēlā aku). ʻOiai ʻo wau wale nō ka lālā o ka ʻahaʻōlelo e hakakā no ke kūʻokoʻa o ka lehulehu ma 
kekahi hihia, e hana nō wau. No ka ʻike hou aku, e ʻike i kaʻu pūnaewele e hiki mai ana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
BEEKMAN, Pat
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Patricia Y. Beekman 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 16
kaaina@mac.com
(808) 221-9695
 Aloha! ʻO wau ʻo Brandon Elefante, he lālā o ka Senate Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi i kēia 
manawa, Moku 16 (‘Aiea, Pearl City, a me Hālawa). He hanohano nui ko’u ola i ka lawelawe ana 
ma ka oihana aupuni no na makahiki he 10 i hala. Ua hana ikaika au me koʻu mau hoa ahaolelo 
moku’āina i kēia makahiki i hala aku nei e hoʻoponopono i nā pilikia koʻikoʻi, e like me ka hoʻolaha 
ʻana i kahi kaiapuni maʻemaʻe, ke kākoʻo ʻana i nā papahana ʻoihana koʻikoʻi, a me ka hoʻonui 
ʻana i ke komo ʻana i nā hale kūpono. ʻOiai ua holomua nui mākou, ʻoi aku ka nui o nā mea e 
pono e hana ʻia. I loko o koʻu mau makahiki i loko o ka lawelawe aupuni, ua maopopo iaʻu ka 
waiwai o ka lohe ʻana i kou mau manaʻo, ka hui pū ʻana me ka poʻe o nā manaʻo politika āpau, a 
me ka hoʻoikaika mau ʻana e ʻike i nā pane kūpono i nā pilikia koʻikoʻi e kū nei i ko kākou lāhui. 
ʻO koʻu ʻike, koʻu kūpaʻa, a me koʻu aloha i ko mākou kaiāulu, i koʻu manaʻo, e hoʻolilo iaʻu i 
moho kūpono loa e hoʻomau i ka lawelawe ʻana ma ke ʻano he lunamakaʻāinana senatorial 
mokuʻāina. Mahalo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ELEFANTE, Brandon
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Brandon J.C. Elefante 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 16
www.brandonelefante.com
info@brandonelefante.com
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō22Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 18
 Aloha ʻoe, ʻo wau ʻo Senatoa Michelle Kidani a e holo hou ana no ke koho balota ʻana 
i ka Senate o ka Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi. Mahalo nui no ka ʻae ʻana iaʻu e lawelawe ma ke ʻano he 
Senatoa mai ka makahiki 2009. Ke noho nei au ma ke ‘ano he Hope Peresidena o ka Senate o ka 
Moku’āina o Hawai’i a me ka noho luna o ke Komite Ho’ona’auao. Inā ʻoe e ʻae mai iaʻu, makemake 
wau e lawelawe i ko mākou apana no kekahi kau hou e hoʻomau i ke kākoʻo ʻana i kā mākou 
Luna Nui a me ka Dept. of Education e hōʻoiaʻiʻo i kā mākou mau keiki i ka hoʻonaʻauao maikaʻi 
loa e hiki ai i ko mākou Hawaiʻi ke hāʻawi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KIDANI, Michelle N.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Michelle N. Kidani 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 18
mnkidani.com
mnkidani@gmail.com
(808) 754-4442
 36 makahiki aku nei ua pakele au mai ka ʻāina me ka poʻe hilinaʻi na ke aupuni nā 
kuleana apau (Communist) mai me kaʻu wahine. Ua hoʻonaʻauao maikaʻi ʻia (Laeoʻo, MA i ke 
kūlaikūlohea nukelea a me wilikī), ʻaʻole mākou i hele mai i ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa no ka hāʻawi ʻana 
aku, akā ua hana ʻoʻoleʻa mākou e loaʻa i ke ola ulu pono no ko mākou ʻohana, a me nā keiki a 
nā keiki e hiki mai ana. I kēia lā ʻike mākou hiki. Eia naʻe, ʻo ke ala hele i hoʻomalu ʻia e ka poʻe o 
kā mākou aupuni i kēia manawa ke luku nei i nā ola. Ke hele nei kēlā me kēia keiki i ke ola pōkole 
ma mua o ko lākou mau mākua. Pono mākou i ka neʻe ʻana o ka poʻe hana e hoʻohuli i kēia 
mea kū i ke au. Aia nā hoʻonā maoli (ʻaʻole ka wahaheʻe “Green Deal”) no ka hoʻokō pono ʻana 
i ka hana ʻai, ka ikehu, nā hale noho kūpono e hike ke loaʻa ʻia. ʻAʻohe ʻohana hana e hakakā i 
ke kālā a i ʻole e koi ʻia e haʻalele aku i kēia mokuʻāina nani. E hōʻike hou ʻia lākou. Ma ke ʻano 
he kanaka ʻepekema e kūkākūkā ana me nā poʻe akamai a me ko ʻoukou kākoʻo i hui pū ʻia, e 
hoʻopau mākou i kēia mau ʻoihana kūʻokoʻa, kūʻokoʻa e hoʻopōʻino i kā mākou poʻe kālai’āina, nā 
ʻōnaehana koho, a me ka hoʻopau ʻana i nā Hawaiʻi. E hoʻihoʻi au i ka noʻonoʻo pono, ka pono, a 
me ke aloha i ka papa ʻaina kūkākūkā. Mahalo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SVRCINA, Emil
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Emil  Svrcina 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 18
EmilClearChoice.com
emilsvrcina@gmail.com
(808) 256-6473
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō23Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 22
 Aloha, ʻo Samantha DeCorte koʻu inoa. He Hawaiʻi ʻōiwi wau me ka manaʻoʻiʻo 
ikaika a me ka ʻike kuʻuna. Ua hoʻolauleʻa wau a me kaʻu kāne i kā mākou makahiki 27 o ka male 
ʻana, a ua hānai mākou i nā keiki 3 ʻekolu maikaʻi. I ka makahiki 2022, holo wau no ka Senate 
Mokuʻāina o Hawaiʻi ma ka Apana 22 a ua emi wale nō 40 mau balota i ka lanakila. ʻO ia ka 
hāpai palota ʻoi loa i ka hāpai palota o 2022. Mai ia manawa mai, ua hana wau ma nā lālā ʻelua 
o ka Hale Lāhui o Hawaiʻi, me ka Hale o nā Lunamakaʻāinana a, i kēia wā, me ka Senate, kahi i 
loaʻa ai iaʻu ka ʻike kulekele koʻikoʻi a me ka hoʻomohala ʻana i nā pilina koʻikoʻi. No laila, ua 
mākaukau loa wau e lawe i nā kuleana o ka hana i ka lā mua. Ua hui wau i ka papa kaiāulu o ko 
mākou apana a ua koho ʻia wau i Luna Nui e koʻu mau hoa papa. No ka ʻike hou aku, e kipa i kaʻu 
pūnaewele ma www.SamanthaDeCorte.com. Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i kāu koho.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DECORTE, Samantha
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Samantha M. DeCorte 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 22
www.SamanthaDecorte.com
samantha@samanthadecorte.com
(808) 306-9604
 Aloha! ʻO Cedric Asuega Gates koʻu inoa, a he kamaʻāina au o ke kaiāulu 96792. 
He kula haʻaheo au no Kamaile Elementary, Waiʻanae Intermediate, Waiʻanae High School, 
YouthBuild Honolulu, a me Leeward Community College-Waiʻanae Moku. Ke lawelawe nei au 
ma ke ʻano he Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina o ka Moku 45, ʻo ia hoʻi ʻo Mākua, Mākaha, a me 
Waiʻanae. Ua lawelawe au ma mua i ko mākou kaiāulu ma ke ʻano he luna hoʻomalu o ka Papa 
Kūkākūkā o Waiʻanae Coast Neighborhood Board a he lālā au o ka Papa Hoʻokele no ka Waiʻanae 
Coast Comprehensive Health Center. Mai koʻu koho ʻia ʻana i ke keʻena, ua loaʻa iaʻu he $250 
miliona ma ke kālā no ko mākou mau alanui, nā kula, nā ʻoihana, nā paka mokuʻāina, ka pale 
ahi, ka mālama ola kino, home a me nā mea hou aku. I kēlā me kēia makahiki ma ke ʻano he kau 
kānāwai, ua hiki iaʻu ke hoʻoholo i nā bila e hoʻomaikaʻi ai i ko mākou ʻano o ke ola ma 96792, a 
ke manaʻo nei au e hoʻomau i ka hana like me kāu Senatoa e hiki mai ana. Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au 
iā ʻoe a me kou Ohana koho.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
GATES, Cedric Asuega
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Cedric S. Gates 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 22
CEDRICFORHAWAII.COM
CEDRIC4HAWAII@GMAIL.COM
(808) 457-6385
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō24Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 23
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
AWA, Brenton
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Brenton P. Awa 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 23
friendsofbrentonawa@gmail.com
(808) 454-3017
 ʻO Ben Shafer kahi hanauna ʻehā o ke awāwa ʻo Kahana. He loio kaiaulu lōʻihi, ʻo ia 
kekahi o nā alakaʻi i ka hakakā ʻana me ka hoʻonui ʻana o Turtle Bay Resort. Hana ʻo Ben no ka 
International Alliance Theatrical and Stage Employees and Film IATSE Local 665, a ke lawelawe 
nei ʻo ia ma ka ʻaha hoʻolewa o ka mokupuni ʻo Oʻahu. Manaʻo ʻo Ben he mea nui ka kūpaʻa a ʻo 
ka lokahi ke ala i ka holomua. ʻO ke aloha a me ka mahalo o Ben i nā poʻe ʻē aʻe e alakaʻi i kāna 
hana. Pono ko mākou moku nui a ʻokoʻa i kahi alakaʻi ikaika e hiki ke hōʻike pono i ko mākou mau 
kaiāulu āpau. E lilo ʻo Ben i Senatoa pono i ko mākou moku e pono ai a pono. ʻO ke kumu kūʻai 
kiʻekiʻe o ke ola e paʻakikī loa ka loaʻa ʻana. Pono ke aupuni i ke kuleana a me ka emi ʻana o ka 
ʻōpala. Pono kākou e mālama i ka maikaʻi o ke ola, e pale i ka hoʻomohala nui ʻana, e pale i ko 
kākou ʻāina mahiʻai, e hoʻonui i ka meaʻai kūloko, e mālama i ko kākou mau alanui, e mālama i nā 
kūpuna a me nā keiki. Aloha, Lōkahi, Pono.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SHAFER, Ben
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Benjamin D. Shafer 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Kenekoa Mokuʻāina, Moku 23
bdshafer@gmail.com
(808) 388-5777
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō25Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 3
 “E hana maikaʻi kāua!” Hoʻopau i ke kānāwai Jones. Disinfect ka Hale. ʻO ka pōmaikaʻi 
mau ma o ke kūʻokoʻa. Ke ʻōlelo nei au no ka hui ʻo Big Island o nā homesteaders organik. Hele 
au i nā alanui like me ʻoe, a ke ʻike nei au i nā lua. Manaʻo wau ua ʻike ʻoe iaʻu e kōkua ana i 
ka poʻe ʻilihune, e hoʻolohe ana i nā poʻe mai nā ʻano like ʻole o ke ola, a me ka hoʻokani mele 
ma nā alanui. Ke kaʻana like nei mākou, i koʻu manaʻo, i nā pahuhopu like: nā kaiāulu waiwai, 
palekana, a hoʻokuʻu ʻia kahi i pale ʻole ʻia ai ko mākou kuleana e ka mokuʻāina. A hui pū mākou, 
e hāʻawi mākou i ka ʻōnaehana ʻelua ʻaoʻao e hāʻule nei i kahi memo maopopo loa: “E hana 
maikaʻi.” E hana ikaika au nou ke koho oe ia’u i ka Hale o na Lunamakaainana. E nānā pono wau i 
kēlā me kēia bila. Ke hoʻohiki nei au ʻaʻole e haʻalele iā ʻoe; ʻO koʻu kūlana i ka loiloi kānāwai, ke 
kaʻina hana pāremata, a me ke kumumanaʻo kānāwai e hiki ai iaʻu ke hoʻohana pono i ka pou ma 
mua o nā mea noi ʻē aʻe. E Hana Kakou.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MARTIN, Austin D. (Shiloh)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Austin D. Martin 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 3
libertarianhawaii.com
rapidreason@gmail.com
(940) 368-0364
 Aloha Hawai’i Hikina! ʻO ka hoʻonui ʻana i ka hiki o ka poʻe kamaʻāina ke loaʻa nā 
mea e pono ai kaʻu mea nui. Ua holomua mākou i kēia mau lā, a e hana wau i nā mea a pau i koʻu 
mana e hoʻomau i ka manaʻo no ka ʻoihana ʻauhau kaulike a me nā manaʻo nui no nā kūpuna 
a me nā ʻohana ʻōpio. Ma waho aʻe o ka hoʻoikaika ʻana e hoʻemi i ke kumukūʻai o ke ola a 
hoʻokumu i nā kūlana waiwai ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi, e hoʻomau wau i kā mākou hoʻoikaika ʻana e 
hoʻololi i ka mālama olakino ma Hawaii Hikina ma o ka ulu hou ʻana o Hilo Medical Center a me ke 
kūkulu ʻana i nā hale hou no Puna. Mahalo no kou koho a no kou noonoo!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TODD, Christopher L.T.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Christopher L.T. Todd 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 3
www.christoshirotodd.org
christmastodd@gmail.com
(808) 825-8636
 Aloha mai, ma ke ano he Repubalika, e hooikaika ana o Kanoa Hauoli Wilson e koho i 
ka Apana 3 i lunamakaainana. Kanoa Wilson kanoaw@gmail.com (808)-365-3033 Ma koʻu kūlana 
ma ke ʻano he lunamakaʻāinana ʻāpana 3, makemake wau e hoʻohuli i ka manaʻo mai nā mea 
lapuwale e like me ka hoʻolaha ʻana i ka Shaka ʻo ia ke ʻano kūhelu o Hawaiʻi a i ʻole nā     mea 
ʻē aʻe o ia ʻano a me nā pilikia koʻikoʻi. hele pinepine i waena o nā āpau. He kanaka kalepa au 
ma mua o koʻu neʻe ʻana i ke Kalana ʻo Hawaii, akā ʻo ka ʻeha i loaʻa iaʻu ma laila ua pau kaʻu 
ʻoihana. Mai ia manawa, ua hoʻokumu au i kahi ʻoihana liʻiliʻi e kōkua ana i ka poʻe nele a ua 
hoʻāʻo wau e hāʻawi i nā hana kaiāulu manuahi no ka poʻe ʻilihune. Mahalo no ka noonoo ana
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
WILSON, Kanoa
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kanoa Hauoli Wilson 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 3
kanoaw@gmail.com
(808) 365-3033
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō26Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 4
 ʻOiai he makuahine o 3 i hānau ʻia a hānai ʻia ma Hawaiʻi, loaʻa iaʻu ke aloha a me 
ke aloha. Hoʻopili wau i ka hoʻoponopono pilikia me ka noʻonoʻo a me ka noʻonoʻo. Ua hana au 
me nā hui ʻoihana ʻole he nui a ua hoʻonohonoho i nā hanana lehulehu i alakaʻi ʻia mai koʻu 
wā kamaliʻi i ka hoʻāʻo ʻana e hāʻawi i ko mākou poʻe i nā hoʻonā a me ka manaʻo maikaʻi. Ma 
ke ʻano he kamaʻāina o ka ʻāpana nani 4, manaʻo wau e hoʻomau i kēlā a e lilo i mea hoʻolohe 
maikaʻi e pono ai kēia kaiāulu ma waho o ka leo. Pono nā kānāwai e kākoʻo ana i ko kākou poʻe. 
mai kipaku ia lakou. ʻO ka poʻe loio e hoʻolohe pono iā mākou. ʻO ka mea pōʻino, ʻo kekahi o nā 
kānāwai i ʻāpono ʻia e ka ʻahaʻōlelo a ʻaʻole hoʻi e hāpai i ka pono o ko kākou poʻe kānaka, ua 
kākoʻo ʻia e nā poʻe kālaiʻāina a mākou i koho ai i ka oihana. Hiki iaʻu ke hilinaʻi i ke ola o ko 
mākou apana no ka mea he wahine wau o kaʻu ʻōlelo. ʻO wau ka manaʻolana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HO, Keikilani
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Keikilani G.P. Ho 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 4
keikilanikealoha@gmail.com
(808) 437-0670
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ILAGAN, Greggor
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Greggor Johanson P. Ilagan 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 4
voteilagan.com
greggorilagan@gmail.com
(808) 557-5819
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō27Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 5
 ʻO ka manawa kēia e kanu ai i nā ʻanoʻano o ka hoʻololi polikika koʻikoʻi. Pono kēia i 
ka noʻonoʻo ʻana ma waho o nā palena o ka ʻaoʻao polikika. ʻOiai ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi o koʻu mau 
manaʻo me ka poʻe Lipelakalia (ʻoi aku ke kūʻokoʻa, emi ke aupuni), kūʻokoʻa wau. ʻO ka pilikia, 
ʻaʻole ka ʻAoʻao, pono e hoʻoikaika i nā hana hoʻomaikaʻi. He hōʻuluʻulu pōkole loa kēia o kaʻu 
mau pahuhopu. (www.ffogel.net no nā mea hou aku.) Nā ʻauhau - hoʻololi i ka ʻauhau maluna o ka 
loaʻa mokuʻāina i nā pākēneka paʻa, hoʻopau i ka ʻauhau kumukūʻai ma ka meaʻai a me ka lāʻau 
lapaʻau. Kaiapuni - hoʻoikaika hou i ka pāpā ʻana a me ka hoʻopau ʻana i nā lāhulu hoʻouluhua, a 
hoʻolako i nā keʻena hoʻoheheʻe piha (hoʻohanini). ʻO nā koho pāloka - hoʻokō i ke koho pāloka 
ma ka pūnaewele. Kālai’āina – nā palena manawa no nā poʻe kālaiʻāina, a hoʻolōʻihi i ke kau 
ʻahaʻōlelo mai ʻelima mahina a hiki i ka ʻumi, me ka hoʻonui ʻole o ka uku o ka poʻe kālai’āina. 
ʻO ka hoʻonaʻauao - hoʻopau i ka papa kula mokuʻāina no nā papa mokupuni ʻokoʻa, ʻōnaehana 
palapala. ʻO nā hale paʻahao - e nānā i ka hoʻoponopono. ʻO ke aupuni - hoʻolei i ka mana i lalo i 
ka pae kalana. ʻO nā kānāwai - e ʻae nā kalana i ka piliwaiwai.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
FOGEL, Frederick F.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Frederick F. Fogel 
ʻAoʻao Lipelakalia
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 5
www.ffogel.net
fogelforfreedom@gmail.com
(808) 265-1659
 ʻOiai ʻo au ka lunamakaʻāinana o kēia manawa no ka ʻĀpana Hale 5, ua hoʻoikaika 
nō au no ka pono o ka poʻe pōpilikia loa o ke kūlana kālā a me nā ʻohana o ko kākou mokuʻāina 
a ua lanakila nui nō au. Ua hoʻohiki nō au e paio no nā loina koʻikoʻi loa, ʻo ka wā hoʻomaha 
ʻohana me ka uku, ka wā maʻi me ka uku, ke kaulike ma ka ʻauhau, a me ka ʻona hale ʻana i nā 
hale makepono ʻiʻo nō. Ua hoʻohiki nō hoʻi au e hoʻonui aku i nā hana ʻōmaʻomaʻo, ka hoʻomalu 
ʻana i ko kākou ʻāina e pale ai i ke kūkulu pākela ʻana me ka lima pākaha, ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i ka 
ʻoihana hoʻomākaukau no nā pōʻino, a me ka hoʻomāhuahua ʻana i ka ʻoihana pale i nā pōʻino o 
ko kākou ʻāina aloha. ʻO ka hope loa, ke hoʻohiki nei au e nokenoke i ka paio ʻana no nā kuleana o 
nā wāhine, nā polokalamu no nā Kānaka Maoli, ka loaʻa like o ka lawelawe olakino maikaʻi, a me 
nā kuleana kīwila no nā kamaʻāina LGBTQ+. ʻOia ua nui nō nā hoʻāʻo, ua maopopo nō iaʻu ua hiki 
nō iā kākou ke huliāmahi a hoʻomāhuahua i ko kākou noho ʻana no kēia mua iho ma ko kākou 
ʻāina aloha nei. Ua hoʻohiki nō au e alakaʻi me ke aloha ʻiʻo no ko ʻoukou mau ʻohana a me ka 
lehulehu nō a pau.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KAPELA, Jeanne
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jeanne M. Kapela 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 5
www.jeannekapela.com
jeanne@jeannekapela.com
(808) 854-1148
 Ua noho au ma ka Moku 5 mai koʻu wā e ʻehā makahiki aʻu, a ua pōmaikaʻi au i 
ka hoʻomākaukau i koʻu mau keiki ma ʻaneʻi. He mākua a me ka Makua Kumu o ka Makahiki 
2020 no Ke Kula o Hawaiʻi Komohana, ua ʻike au i ka pono o ke kūlana ma kekahi mau ʻano o 
ka mālamalama a me ka hoʻonaʻauao. E hana ana au no ka hoʻokolokolo, ka maopopo, a me ka 
pono no nā haumāna a me nā ʻohana a pau ma ka papa kula. Ke kū nei au no nā pono mākua a 
manaʻoʻiʻo au i ka pono o nā haumāna a me nā ʻohana e pono ai lākou e kūkā pū i nā kūkā ma 
ka mālama ʻana iā lākou. Ke ʻike nei au i nā kaiāulu kahi e hoʻomaikaʻi ʻia ai nā ʻohana a e kōkua 
ʻia ai i kā lākou mau koho ma nā mea o ka mālama ʻana i ka mālamalama, ka mālama ʻana i ka 
ʻai, a me ka mālama ʻana i ka ʻāina a me ka hoʻoponopono o ka ʻāina. ʻO ka mālama ʻana maikaʻi 
i nā alanui kūʻai a me nā mākau kūʻai kūpilikiʻi o ka poʻe a pau e hoʻokumu i ka mua. ʻO ka 
mālama ʻana i nā ʻohana e hoʻoulu ana e kūʻai iā Hawaiʻi i kā lākou wahi hoʻokipa, i ka hopena 
hoʻi. Ua pono e waiho i ka waiwai i loko o ko kākou poʻe I KĒIA MANAWA e hoʻomaopopo ai i ke 
kūlanakauhale e paipai ai.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
OYAMA, Ashley
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Ashley K.P. Oyama 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 5
www.ashleyoyama.com
ashley@ashleyoyama.com
(808) 437-0755
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō28Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 6
 Haʻahaʻa wau e lawelawe iā Kona i Lunamakaʻāinana no ʻoukou, mai Kailua a 
Hōnaunau. I koʻu kau mua, ua kau au i ke kānāwai no ka pale ʻana i ke kofe Kona a me ka mac 
nuts, ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i nā pale o Hawaiʻi e kūʻē i nā ʻano invasive, a me ka hoʻoulu ʻana i 
nā mea hou a me ka hoʻomohala waiwai. Ua loaʻa iaʻu ke kālā no ka mālama ʻana i nā kula 
kūloko a me ka Halemai Kaiāulu o Kona. Nui koʻu kūpaʻa i ka mokupuni ʻo Hawaiʻi a pau no ka 
mea, no Hilo, Keaukaha, ʻOpihikao, Kaʻū a me Waipiʻo koʻu ʻohana. Ma ke ʻano he ʻōiwi Hawaiʻi 
a makuahine hoʻi, ʻo kaʻu hana ma ka ʻahaʻōlelo he mea koʻikoʻi loa ia, ʻoiai ʻo Hawaiʻi koʻu 
home. Ua hōʻoia wau e hana wau i kēlā me kēia lā no ko mākou ʻohana a pau, no laila, loaʻa i nā 
hanauna hou kahi wahi ma Hawaiʻi nei e hoʻomau i ka noho ʻana a me ke kāhea ʻana i ka home. 
Mahalo i kou manaʻoʻiʻo i kaʻu hana e hoʻomau ai ma ka ʻAhaʻōlelo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KAHALOA, Kirstin
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kirstin A.K. Kahaloa 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 6
kahaloaforkona.com
vote@kahaloaforkona.com
(808) 430-5821
 Mai ka ʻulaʻula a i ka ʻulaʻula, a me nā mea a pau ma waena, ua hoʻohui ʻia mākou 
e nā pilikia like ʻole a mākou e alo nei ma ke ʻano he kamaʻaina. ʻOiai ʻo ko kākou ʻokoʻa, ʻo 
ia ka manawa e kau mua ai ka poʻe o Hawaiʻi. ʻO kaʻu pahuhopu i ka holo kālaiʻāina, ʻo ia ka 
hōʻike ʻana i ka leo o ka poʻe ma ke kapikala o ka lāhui. E pili ana i ka hale, ka home ʻole, ka 
hoʻonaʻauao, a me ka hoʻonui ʻana o ke aupuni a me ka loaʻa ʻana, pono mākou e hana koke.  
Pono mākou i nā kuleana hou aʻe ma ko mākou ʻāina a e hana i nā hana koʻikoʻi e kūʻē i nā 
lawehala. Ke manaʻoʻiʻo nei au i nā pono o kēlā me kēia kanaka, i ka mahiʻai, ka lawaiʻa, ka hahai 
holoholona,     a me ke kūʻokoʻa e pale aku i kou home, ʻohana, a me kou iho. He kanaka pāʻoihana 
liʻiliʻi au ma Hawaiʻi, he puka mai ke Kula Kaiapuni ʻo Kapiʻolani me ka Bachelor of Science i 
ka hoʻoponopono kalaima. Ua hana au no ka Hawaii Small Business Development Center a ua 
lawelawe au ma ka papa o ka Hawaii Big Game Fishing Club. 
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MADISON, Sylvie M.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Sylvie M. Madison 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 6
www.letsgobigisland.com
vote@letsgobigisland.com
(808) 430-5563
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō29Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 7
 Aloha! Ma ke ʻano he ʻoihana a me ka ʻoihana kaua o ka ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa i lawe 
mai i nā haneli o nā hana a me ke ola kūloko i kahi hale kūʻai ʻoihana ʻino o Kona, hoʻohiki wau e 
lawelawe i ka Apana 7 o Hawaii me ka hoʻoikaika. Ua hōʻike au i koʻu hoʻolaʻa ʻana i nā waiwai o 
ke kaiāulu a me ka ʻohana ma o koʻu kūlana alakaʻi manawaleʻa ma ke ʻano he diakono hale pule 
a me ka luna hoʻomalu o ka Apana Hoʻonui ʻoihana Village o Kailua. Ua hauʻoli wau i ka loaʻa 
ʻana o ka hapa nui o nā balota ma Big Island i ka US Senate Republican Primary 2022, e hōʻike 
ana i ke kākoʻo ikaika ʻana i koʻu kahua no ka hoʻonui ʻana i ka hoʻokele waiwai, hoʻemi ʻia nā 
lilo ola, a me nā hale e hiki ai ke hoʻokumu i ka wā e hiki mai ana no nā keiki o ka Mokupuni. Me 
kēia mau pahuhopu, makemake nō hoʻi au e hōʻoia i ka pono o ka hoʻolilo aupuni. Inā koho ʻia, 
hoʻohiki wau e hōʻoia i ka lohe ʻia ʻana o ka leo o kēlā me kēia kamaʻāina a hoʻokūpaʻa ʻia i loko 
o ka ʻAhaʻōlelo Mokuʻāina ma o ka mālama ʻana i nā laina ākea a me ka ʻoiaʻiʻo o ke kamaʻilio 
ʻana a me ke komo ʻana i nā leka uila maʻamau, kelepona, a me nā ʻaha kūkā lehulehu. Mahalo 
nui loa no kou koho balota!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DALHOUSE, Timothy A. (Tim)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Timothy Alan Dalhouse 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 7
timdalhouse.com
vote4tim@timdalhouse.com
(808) 772-3996
 He lunamakaʻāinana ʻo Nicole Lowen no Hawaiʻi Komohana ma ka Hale Mokuʻāina 
mai ka 2012 mai, a ua hoʻoikaika nō ʻo ia me ka hāʻawipio ʻole no kona ʻāpana. I ka hala ʻana o nā 
makahiki, na Nicole i hoʻopaʻa i nā puʻu kālā no ka hoʻoponopono ʻana i nā kula, nā haukapila, no 
ke kūkulu ʻana i ka Hale ʻAha Hoʻokolokolo o Kona, a me ka Pā Kula o ka HCC o Pālamanui, a he 
mau mea hou aku nō. Ma kona ʻaoʻao he kumu kula kahiko, ua nokenoke ʻo Nicole i māhuahua ka 
uku o nā kumu kula a i hoʻoponopono ʻia nā kula no nā keiki, ua hana ʻo ia i nui hou aʻe nā home 
makepono a i pale ʻia ai ka pipiʻi o nā lilo e noho ai i Hawaiʻi nei. Ua hoʻoikaika nō hoʻi ʻo Nicole 
i ke kākoʻo i nā ʻohana hana nui, nā mahi ʻai o ka ʻāina, a me nā hui hana, a ma kona ʻaoʻao ʻo 
ia ka Luna o ke Kōmike Kumu Uila me ka Hoʻomalu ʻĀina Ā Puni, ua lilo he mea nui iā Nicole ka 
hoʻomalu ʻana i nā kumu waiwai o ka ʻāina o Hawaiʻi, nā ʻano hou o ka hoʻolako uila ʻana, a me 
ka noiʻi ʻana i ka pōpilikia o ka ʻāina ā puni. Hoʻoikaika nō hoʻi ʻo Nicole e pane mau a kūkaʻi 
manaʻo mau me ka lehulehu o kona ʻāpana. Ke koho hou ʻia nō ʻo ia, e hoʻomau nō ʻo ia i ka 
lawelawe me ka ʻoiaʻiʻo nō, me ka mākaukau ma ka ʻoihana, a me ka hoʻoikaika maoli.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
LOWEN, Nicole
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Nicole E. Lowen 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 7
nicolelowen.com
nicole@nicolelowen.com
(808) 937-8196
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
30Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 8
 Aloha ʻoe, Monique Cobb-Adams Perreira koʻu inoa, a he kanaka Hawaiʻi haʻaheo 
au, ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa, a me ka mea nona ka ʻoihana liʻiliʻi. Laki nō wau i ka lilo ʻana i wahine, 
makuahine, kupuna wahine. ʻO ka ulu ʻana i Hawaiʻi i hoʻokomo i loko oʻu i ke aloha nui i kahi aʻu 
i kapa ai i kēia manawa he home. E kuʻu kumu maoli: e hoʻololi i ka pono o nā kānaka o Hawaiʻi, 
ʻaʻole wale nō e mālama, akā e hiki iā lākou ke hanohano no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. Ma koʻu 
moho, ke manaʻoʻiʻo nei au he pono mākou e kaohi i ka mana o ke aupuni ma ko mākou ola a me 
nā ʻoihana. E hoʻopau i ka uku pāʻani i ko mākou aupuni, e mālama i kā mākou mau luna i koho 
ʻia a i koho ʻia no kā lākou hana, a hoʻopau i ka palaho. Ke lawe nei au i ka noʻonoʻo maʻamau, ka 
ʻoiaʻiʻo a me ka manaʻo paʻa i ka ʻimi ʻana i nā hoʻonā maoli i nā kulekele hemahema o Hawaiʻi. 
E hana pū kākou e hoʻokumu i kawā e hiki mai ana no ko kākou ʻāina, keiki, a me Hawaiʻi nei.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
PERREIRA, Monique CobbAdams
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Monique C.A.K. Perreira 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 8
cobbadamsmo@gmail.com
(808) 938-3370
 Aloha. ʻO David Tarnas koʻu inoa a ke holo nei au no ke koho hou ʻana ma ke ʻano he 
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina no ka Hale Apana 8 - Kohala ʻĀkau a me Hema. Ua noho au ma ka 
apana ma kahi o 38 makahiki a ua hanai au me ka’u wahine i ka maua mau keiki elua ma Waimea. 
Ke noho nei au ma ke ano he noho o ke Komite o ka Hale no ka Aha Hookolokolo a me ka Hawaii a 
ua noho au ma ka oihana no na kau elima. Ua paʻa au i ka hoʻoponopono ʻana i nā pilikia koʻikoʻi 
o ko mākou apana e like me ka hale kūʻai, ka hoʻonaʻauao lehulehu, ka palekana o ka lehulehu, 
a me ka mālama ʻana i ke kaiapuni, a me ka hoʻopaʻa kālā ʻana no nā alanui aupuni, nā awa, nā 
kula, nā hale waihona puke, nā halemai, a me nā hale aupuni ʻē aʻe. E hooikaika mau ana au e 
kokua i ko kakou mau ohana, na keiki, na kupuna, a me na oihana e kokua ana i ko kakou waiwai 
e like me ka mahiai, ka makaikai, ka hoku, ke ola kino, a me na oihana pili ike. No ka ʻike hou aku e 
ʻoluʻolu e ʻike www.votetarnas.com. Mahalo!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TARNAS, David A.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
David A. Tarnas 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 8
www.votetarnas.com
votetarnas@gmail.com
(808) 987-5810
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō31Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 11
 ʻO koʻu hoʻolaʻa a me kaʻu hana e kōkua i ka manawa hoʻokele waiwai o Maui e like 
me kaʻu i hana ai i nā makahiki he 21 i hala, me ka hana ʻana i ka hoʻolako ʻana i ka HOPE no 
Maui ma hope o ke ahi o Lahaina. Ma ka hoʻomau ʻana i ka ʻeleu ma ko mākou mau pilikia hale, 
a me ka hoʻoponopono ʻana i ka uila, ke ala no nā ʻōnaehana pilikia ma Maui Hema me ke kōkua 
ʻana i ka hoʻokumu ʻana i nā hana uku kiʻekiʻe ma ka ʻoihana noʻeau a me ka ʻenehana i ka 
ʻoihana kiʻiʻoniʻoni e like me kaʻu i hana ai. E hana pū ana e kūkulu hou i ka wā e hiki mai ana no 
ko kākou kaiāulu. Ke kōkua nei e hoʻomau i ka hui ʻana i loko o ko mākou kaiāulu, ʻoiai e kālele 
ana i nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, a me ka mālama ʻana i kā mākou moʻomeheu, a ʻoi aku ka nui o nā mea a 
pau, ka pale ʻana i kā mākou mau keiki mai ka moekolohe kanaka trafficking, a me ka pale ʻana i 
ka poʻe ʻelemakule mai nā scam cyber a me nā mea ʻaihue. Manaʻo wau e lawelawe iā Maui Nui 
a me ka Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi. hoʻokaʻaʻike: aileenlilyacain@gmail.com www.voteaileenlilyacain.
com
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ACAIN, Aileen R. (Lily)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Aileen R. Acain 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 11
www.votelilyacain.com
aileenlilyacain@gmail.com
(808) 264-0622
 Aloha e nā hoalauna, hana wau iā ʻoukou! ʻO koʻu kuleana a me koʻu hanohano ke 
pani ʻana iā ʻoe. Pono ʻoe i ʻelele ʻo #WorkingForThePeople, ʻaʻole nā hui a i ʻole nā lobbyists! 
Hōʻole wau i kā lākou hāʻawi. ʻO wau ʻo #NotForSale. Maikaʻi ke kamaʻilio. ʻO kaʻu hopena: 
$53Million no nā hale Kihei kūpono, nā kula, ka hoʻēmi ʻana i ke ahi, 200 mau limahana Kihei 
hou, nā kula mua a me ke kumu #AffordableHousing units, a me 800 mau keʻena hou aku no ka 
poʻe home ʻole a me ke ahi, ʻoiai e mālama ana i nā pono kaiapuni.. Ua kākoʻo au i nā kūpuna,nā 
uniona a me nā limahana hoʻokipa, nā kahu hānai, nā piʻi uku kumu, #SafetySchool, #GayRights, 
#LivingWage, #LocalFarmers, hōʻemi ʻaiʻē haumāna, hoʻonui i ka mālama ola kino, nā ʻauhau 
haʻahaʻa, a me ka hoʻonaʻauao CNA/nurse. #ProChoice: Aia ka Demokalaka, ke kūʻokoʻa a me 
#ReproductiveRights ma ka balota: Ma ke ʻano he mea hoʻolauna mua o Act2: ʻAʻole wau e kū i 
ka wā e hoʻouka ʻia ai ʻo Democracy, a hoʻopaʻi hewa ʻia nā kauka a me nā hoʻomake ʻana e (R)
adical hoa paio. #LegalizeIt. ʻO ka pale ʻana i nā kūpuna, nā keiki, nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, nā poʻe kīnā, 
ko kākou kaiapuni a me #HumanRights kaʻu hana. E kū wau no ʻoukou! Mahalo iā ʻoe no ke koho 
ʻana iā #TAmato
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
AMATO, Terez (T.Amato)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Terez M.A. Lindsey 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 11
www.TAmato.org
Admin@TerezAmato.org
(808) 268-2622
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
32Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 12
 Ke komo nei au i ke koho balota no ka’u aloha nui iā Maui a me nā mea a pau e 
kū’oko’a ai kēia mokupuni, ʻokoʻa nō me ke koena o Hawaiʻi. He kāne au, a he makua o nā keiki 
ʻelua liʻiliʻi, hānau ʻia a hānai ʻia ma Maui, a he ʻehā hanauna koʻu ʻohana ma ʻaneʻi. Ma hope o 
ka puka ʻana me ka pākaukau kālā mai ke Kulanui o Hawaiʻi ma Mānoa, ua kūkulu au i ka ʻoihana 
holomua ma ke alakaʻi papahana i loko o ka makahiki he ʻumi i hala. Mai kuʻu ʻike aku, ua ʻike 
au i nā kumu kūikawā nui o ko mākou mau wahi ola waiwai kiʻekiʻe o ke aupuni. Ua kaumaha 
iʻaʻu ke ʻike ʻana i nā ʻohana kaiāulu i kāpae ʻia e hiki ke noho ma ʻaneʻi a e hoʻokō ma hope. ʻO 
koʻu manao, e hoʻokumu ʻia ka hoʻolōʻihi ʻana o ka waiwai ola ma o nā hoʻoponopono hoʻokahi 
aʻe ma nā kānāwai ʻo ke aupuni, e hoʻoholo i ke koʻikoʻi o ka noho ma mua o ke kānāwai, a 
me ka hoʻokiʻekiʻe ʻana i ko mākou kaiāulu. Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i kāu koho balota e lilo i 
lunamakaʻāinana no ʻoe.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
JOHNSON, Dan
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Daniel B. Johnson 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 12
Danjohnson4hawaii@gmail.com
(808) 250-0020
 Ke hele nei ko mākou ola i nā loli wikiwiki a hiki ʻole ke hoʻi i hope. E hoʻomau ka piʻi 
ʻana o ka hoʻololi ʻana o ke aniau i ka piʻi ʻana o ka ʻilikai, hoʻopau i nā ʻāʻu, a hoʻokuʻu i nā ʻino. 
E hāʻawi ʻo AI i nā manawa a me nā mea hoʻoweliweli i ke ola kanaka. Ke makemake nui nei ʻo 
Upcountry Maui i alakaʻi ma ka Hale Mokuʻāina me ka ʻike i ka naʻauao hana, ka hoʻoponopono 
pilikanaka no nā mea āpau, a me ka hoʻololi ʻana i ke aniau. I mea e lanakila ai i kēia mau pilikia, 
pono mākou e hoʻomohala i ke kūpaʻa, a koi mākou i kahi alakaʻi e ʻike i ke kiʻi nui a hāʻawi iā 
mākou i nā mea hana e pono ai. Ua lilo ʻo Rita Ryan i mea manawaleʻa ikaika ma Maui, e lawelawe 
ana ma ke Kōmike Kūkākūkā o ke Kalana ʻo Maui, ka Hawaiian Islands Land Trust Maui Council, 
ma ke ʻano he coordinator o 350Hawaii.org Maui, a ma ke ʻano he alakaʻi mua o The Climate 
Reality Project, Hawaii Chapter. Ua alakaʻi maikaʻi ʻo ia i ka paipai ʻana iā Maui e hoʻolaha i kahi 
pilikia Climate, kahi i hui pū ai nā mokupuni kokoke a me ka mokuʻāina. E koho iā Rita Ryan!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
RYAN, Rita M.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Rita M. Ryan 
ʻAoʻao ʻŌmaʻomaʻo
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 12
ritaryan@buzbuz.biz
(808) 250-5030
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
YAMASHITA, Kyle T.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kyle T. Yamashita 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 12
kyle.yamashita@gmail.com
(808) 870-5874
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō33Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 13
 Ma ke ʻano he moho kūpaʻa a noʻonoʻo e holo ana i Lunamakaʻāinana o ka Hale 
Apana 13, makemake wau e ʻike i ka holomua ʻana o Hawaiʻi. ʻO kā mākou pahuhopu nui ke kōkua 
ʻana i nā kānāwai e pōmaikaʻi nui ai ka lehulehu. I kēia mau lā, pono nā mea nui i ka hoʻonui 
ʻana i ka hoʻokele waiwai, ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou ʻohana-me nā kuleana o nā mākua e 
hānai i kā lākou mau keiki-ka mālama ʻana i ke kūʻokoʻa olakino, a me ka pale ʻana i ko mākou 
mau kūʻokoʻa kumu-me ka hoʻololi mua a me ka lua-ma ke ʻano he kamaʻāina o ko mākou 
mokuʻāina maikaʻi loa. repubalika kumukānāwai. Ke holo nei mākou i ka pilikia o ka lilo ʻana o 
kā mākou mau ʻokoʻa i hāʻawi ʻia e ke Akua a e ʻae i nā ʻano aupuni ʻē aʻe e kū i ko lākou wahi 
inā ʻaʻole mālama ʻia i kā mākou mau hana aupuni. Ua hoʻokumu ʻia kā mākou ʻōnaehana ma ke 
kumu o Kākou ka Lāhui ʻo ia ke ʻano hoʻomalu, ka mana i loko o ko mākou kaiāulu. ʻOiai ua lilo 
nā mea i waho o ka lima i kēia mau lā, hiki iaʻu ke kōkua i ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ko mākou repubalika 
kumukānāwai ma ke kākoʻo ʻana a me ke koho ʻana i nā kānāwai e hoʻihoʻi i ka mana i ka poʻe.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ADAM, Scott
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Scott L. Adam 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 13
ScottAdam@icloud.com
(802) 558-3192
 Aloha! ʻO Mahina Poepoe koʻu inoa, ke holo moho hou aku nei au no ka Hale 
Lunamakaʻāinana o ka Mokuʻāina. He pōmaikaʻi a he kuleana noʻu ka lawelawe ʻana ma ke ʻano 
ʻo au ko ʻoukou lunamakaʻāinana i kēia mau makahiki ʻelua i hala hope nei, a he mea nui nō ia 
iaʻu. Ua nokenoke nō au no ka hoʻokō aku i nā hoʻohiki aʻu i hoʻohiki ai ma ka holo moho ʻana, 
a ua kū koʻu moʻolelo o kaʻu mau hana i koʻu manaʻo nokenoke no ka lehulehu a me ka ʻāina. 
Ua nui koʻu waiho ʻana i nā pila he ʻeono haneli a ʻoi, ʻo nā pila nō hoʻi no ka hoʻomalu ʻana i 
nā kumu waiwai e pono ai ko kākou nohona kanaka a me ka ʻāina, no ke kākoʻo ʻana i nā hui 
liʻiliʻi a me nā pōʻai hoʻoulu mea ʻai kūloko, ka hoʻopāhola ʻana i ka ʻoihana lawelawe olakino, ka 
hoʻolako ʻana i ka mea ʻai manuahi ma nā kula aupuni, a me ka hoʻoponopono ʻana i ka ʻoihana 
hoʻonaʻauao no ka lehulehu, ka hoʻomākaukau ʻana no nā pōʻino, a no ka mōakāka loa o ka 
hana a ke aupuni me ka hoʻokō kuleana ʻiʻo nō. Ua oia mau nō koʻu nānā nui i ka piʻi o ke kūlana 
pono o ke ola o ka poʻe kamaʻāina a me ke kūlana maʻemaʻe o ka ʻāina, a i lilo ia mau manaʻo i 
mea nui loa e hoʻoholo ai ka manaʻo. Ke noi haʻahaʻa aku nei au e koho pāloka mai ʻoukou iaʻu a 
i hoʻomau mai ʻoukou i ke kākoʻo mai iaʻu ma kēia hoʻokūkū holo moho aʻe. Ola i ka wai, Mahina
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
POEPOE, Mahina
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Mahinamalamalama M. Poepoe 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 13
Votemahina.com
mahinapoepoe13@gmail.com
(808) 658-6010
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
34Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 14
 Pono ke kanaka e ʻōlelo a e pani i ka “poʻe” ma ka mokuʻāina o Hawaiʻi, ʻoi aku ma 
ka ʻaoʻao komohana o Maui. Ua lōʻihi loa ka noho ʻana o ka poʻe o Maui me ka lohe ʻole ʻia o 
ko lākou leo. Aia ke ki’eki’e o ka palaho o Hawaii. ʻAʻole i nui ka poʻe home ʻole. Aia ka hoʻohana 
ʻana i ka lāʻau i kahi pae kiʻekiʻe. ʻO nā lilo ola ke kiʻekiʻe loa. ʻAʻole i emi iki ka hoʻonaʻauao. 
Hoʻokomo nā mea pāʻani transgender kāne i nā haʻuki kula kiʻekiʻe wahine wale nō. No nā 
makahiki he 60 a ʻoi aku ka noho aliʻi ʻana o ka ʻAoʻao Kemokalaka i ka mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi 
e hoʻokomo iā ia i loko o kahi ʻauʻau lepo. Ua kapa ʻia ʻo Hawaiʻi ʻo ka mokuʻāina ʻo “Least 
Affordable” ma ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa e ke kaiāulu aupuni. E ʻae mai iaʻu e lilo i leo nou i ka hana 
ʻana i ka utopia e pono ai ko mākou mokuʻāina. E kū wau no ʻoe.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ARMSTRONG, Kelly J.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kelly J. Armstrong 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 14
armstrongcorporation@gmail.com
(760) 333-2332
 ʻO ka poʻe koho pāloka mai Aloha i ka Hale Apana 14 ʻO ka lawelawe ʻana ma ke 
ʻano he lunamakaʻāinana o ka Hale Mokuʻāina no nā makahiki ʻelua i hala aku nei he hanohano 
a he kuleana. Mai ka lalo o koʻu puʻuwai, mahalo wau i kāu kōkua i hala a ke kali nui nei au i 
kāu kōkua hou aku. Ua aʻo nui au i koʻu mau makahiki ʻelua ma ke ʻano he ʻelele mokuʻāina, a 
ʻo ia ʻike, me kaʻu mau makahiki ʻewalu o koʻu ʻike mua ʻana ma ka ʻaha kūkā kalana, e hiki ai 
iaʻu ke lawelawe pono i nā pono o ko mākou kaiāulu! ʻOiai ua hoʻohana au i koʻu ola a pau ma 
Lahaina, ua ʻeha koʻu puʻuwai a me koʻu ʻuhane i ka nalowale nui loa i hiki i kekahi o mākou ke 
hoʻomaopopo. KE kūkulu hou nei mākou, ʻae, pono mākou a pau e hoʻokō i kēia. E ʻike e mālama 
ʻia ka ʻĀPANA Hale 14 mai ka ʻaoʻao a i hope. E hilinaʻi e wehe ʻia koʻu keʻena e like me nā 
manawa a pau, pane a maopopo!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
COCHRAN, Elle
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Eleanora K. Cochran 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 14
voteellecochran.com
cochranelle00@gmail.com
(808) 281-7709
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō35Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 15
 ʻO David Moranz ʻO ka hana ʻana me nā ʻohana a me kā lākou ʻoihana kaʻu kuleana 
i kēia manawa. ʻO kaʻu pahuhopu nui ka ʻimi ʻana i nā ala e kākoʻo ai iā Hawaiʻi ma ke ʻano 
he mokuʻāina a me ke kaiāulu. Loaʻa: Loaʻa iaʻu ka loea i ka hoʻoponopono pilikia a me ka 
hoʻoponopono ʻana i nā mea hana, ka hana ʻana i nā mea kaumaha, nā mea kanu, nā moku, nā 
mea ahi, a me nā pae pahi kaua pacific.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MORANZ, David A.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
David Anthony Moranz 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 15
kilakahi@gmail.com
(808) 651-8882
 He hanohano koʻu e lawelawe ma ka hana he Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 15. 
Ka hoʻonui ʻana o kaʻu hoi i ka lawelawe aupuni aʻu i hoʻopuka mua ai no ka ʻAha Kūkā o Kaua’i 
he 14 makahiki aku nei. Koʻu kumu i laila, ʻo ia ka hana no “ka hana i ka nānā ʻoi aku no Kauaʻi” . 
I lawelawe au i ka maikaʻi o ka poʻe no nā makahiki ʻekolu ma ka ʻAha Kūkā, ʻekolu makahiki 
ma ke Kuhina Nui ma ka Hale Mokuʻāina. No nā makahiki ʻelua i hala, ua lawe au i ka hana o ka 
Luna Nui. Ma ke kūkulu ʻana i nā hale noho ʻoi loa ka uku, ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou ʻāina a 
me nā wai, ka hoʻohana ʻana i ka ʻōlelo mua ma ka mua o ke kula haʻawina, ka hoʻomaka hou i 
ko mākou ʻoihana, a me ke kōkua ʻana i nā ʻohana i ka manaʻo ʻoi aku, loa a loa pū mākou e ulu 
a e hoʻonui i ko mākou maikaʻi o ke ola. Me ka haʻahaʻa nui, ke noi aku nei au i kō kākou koho 
hoʻokahi, i ʻike auaneʻi au i ka hana nui e kū nei ma mua o kākou: ka hoʻokūkū hou ʻana i nā 
hale aupuni ma Kapaʻa, ka hoʻoholo i ka Papahana Kunihaku Mahelona no nā hale aupuni ʻoi loa 
a me nā lawelawe kūʻai, ka hoʻopau ʻana i ke kaumaha o nā malihini ma ka hoʻohana ʻana i nā 
papahana hemo, a me ke kōkua ʻana i ka ʻai mai ka ʻāina kūloko mai.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
NAKAMURA, Nadine K.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Nadine K. Nakamura 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 15
NadineNakamura.com
nknplan@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-1507
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
36Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 16
 Ua noho au ma Kauaʻi holoʻokoʻa, a ua loaʻa iaʻu ka hanohano o ka lawelawe ʻana 
ma ka ʻAha Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi no ʻehā makahiki a ma ka Hale o nā Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina 
ʻo Hawaiʻi no nā makahiki ʻelua i hala. He mea maʻalahi kaʻu ala nuʻukia: e hoʻolilo i ka hale 
noho kūpono e hiki ke loaʻa ʻia kūʻai aku a hoʻomaikaʻi i ko kākou ola.    Pono mākou i nā hale no 
nā ʻohana kūloko, ʻaʻole wale i nā hoʻomohala waiwai. Ma ka hoʻomaʻamaʻa ʻana i nā lula, ka 
hoʻoikaika ʻana i ka hoʻomohala ʻana i nā hale noho i loko a, a puni ko mākou mau kūlanakauhale 
e kū nei, hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i nā ʻōnaehana hele wāwae, a me ke kākoʻo ʻana i nā ʻohana o 
kekahi mau hanauna, hiki iā mākou ke kūkulu i nā kaiāulu ikaika a hoʻomau. ʻO kēia ka mea e 
hoʻohaʻahaʻa i nā kumukūʻai hale, e hoʻopaʻa i nā ʻohana, e hoʻemi i ka hoʻokuʻu kalapona, a e 
hoʻemi i ka mea hoʻokaumaha moku. He mea ia e hoomalu ai i ko kākou mau ʻāina mahi ʻai a e 
hooluolu i ke kaa.   Hiki iā mākou ke hōʻoia e hiki i nā hanauna e hiki mai ana ke noho ma ʻaneʻi, 
mālama ʻia ko kākou kaiapuni, a ola ko kākou kaiāulu. Ua paʻa wau i ka hoʻokō ʻana i kēia ʻike a 
mahalo wau i ke kākoʻo ʻana mai.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
EVSLIN, Luke A.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Luke A. Evslin 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 16
www.lukeevslin.com
luke@lukeevslin.com
(808) 635-6623
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
YODER, Steve
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Steven Jay Yoder 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 16
Kauaipatriot@gmail.com
(808) 855-5503
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō37Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 17
 ʻAʻohe ʻŌlelo i Hāʻawi ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
JAUCH, Michael H.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Michael  Jauch 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 17
Michael@michaeljauch.com
(808) 346-6002
 Ua lawelawe au ma ke ʻano he Lunamakaʻāinana no 14 mau makahiki. Ma mua o koʻu 
holo ʻana i ke keʻena, ua hana au ma ke aupuni o ke kalana no 36 mau makahiki. Ua hoʻolaʻa ʻia 
koʻu ola makua holoʻokoʻa i ka lawelawe aupuni. Ua hele au i kēlā me kēia lā o ke kau ʻahaʻōlelo 
no nā makahiki he 14. Ma ke ʻano he lālā kiʻekiʻe, ke hoʻomau nei au i ka hāpai ʻana i nā kānāwai 
maikaʻi a me ka hana ʻana i kaʻu mea maikaʻi loa e hoʻoponopono ai i nā pono a me nā pilikia o 
ko mākou moku. ʻO ka lilo ʻana ʻo ka Luna Nui o ka Papa Hale i hōʻike i ka hilinaʻi a me ka hilinaʻi 
o nā hoa hana i koʻu hiki ke hoʻokō i nā kuleana o ia kūlana, a ʻo ia ʻike a me ke kūlana kiʻekiʻe e 
hiki ai iaʻu ke lawelawe i ka lehulehu. ʻO ka nānā ʻana i hope i kā mākou hana a me ka nānā ʻana 
i nā mea e hiki mai ana, hāʻawi iaʻu i ka puʻuwai piha i ka ʻoluʻolu a me ka manaʻo o ka holomua. 
Hoʻomaikaʻi wau i ka hilinaʻi o nā mea koho i kaʻu lawelawe, a makemake wau e hoʻomau i ko 
ʻoukou Lunamakaʻāinana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MORIKAWA, Daynette (Dee)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Daynette S.P. Morikawa 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 17
daynette.morikawa@gmail.com
(808) 651-8855
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
38Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 20
 Ua hānai ʻia ʻo Tina Nakada Grandinetti, PhD, ma Oahu a ke holo nei ʻo ia e kākoʻo i 
ka hoʻomohala ʻana i ka wā e hiki mai ana e hiki ai i nā ʻohana kūloko ke noho i Hawaiʻi a hānai i 
kā mākou keiki no ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou mau ʻāina a me nā moana waiwai ʻole. Ma ke ʻano 
he loea postdoctoral ma kahi ʻoihana kulekele aupuni, loaʻa iā ia kahi ʻike kūʻokoʻa e kākoʻo ana 
i nā kulekele hale kaulike e kūpono i nā pono o nā ʻohana hana. Ua hoʻokō ʻo ia i kāna ʻoihana e 
hoʻomaopopo i ka pilikia o ka hale a me ka home ʻole o Hawaiʻi. Ua mālama ʻo ia i ke keʻena o ka 
Lunamakaʻāinana Perruso i ka wā ma mua, e hana pū ana me nā mea kākoʻo e hana a paipai i nā 
kānāwai e pili ana i ke kaulike ʻauhau, nā hale, nā ʻōnaehana meaʻai, a me ka hoʻonaʻauao. Eia 
hou, aia ʻo Tina i ka moʻolelo o ka hana pū ʻana me ke kaiāulu e hoʻonohonoho i mea e mālama ai 
i ka ʻāina no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana, e pale i ka uhuki ʻana o nā ʻohana kūloko, e hoʻonaʻauao 
i nā ʻōpio, a e pani iā     Red Hill. He manaʻoʻiʻo paʻa ʻo ia i ka hui ʻana o ke aupuni maikaʻi iā mākou 
a pau e ʻimi i ka pono nui.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
NAKADA GRANDINETTI, Tina
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Tina  Grandinetti 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 20
www.tinaforhawaii.com
friendsoftinagrandinetti@gmail.com
(808) 376-5200
 Aloha, ʻo Corinne Solomon ʻo ko’u inoa. He makuahine wau, a me he wahine male, a 
he hoalauna; ʻaʻole he kanaka kālai’āina. Ma ke ʻano he hanauna mua ʻAmelika i hānai ʻia ma ka 
hale ʻaina o koʻu ʻohana, ua aʻo mua wau i kahi ʻano hana ikaika. Me ke kēkelē Kauka Lapaʻau 
mai ke Kulanui o ka Pākīpika, ua hana au ma nā hale maʻi o Oʻahu ma mua o koʻu hoʻomaha ʻana 
e nānā i koʻu ʻohana. Inā koho ʻia, e nānā au i kēia mau mea: ke kumu kūʻai o ke ola, ke kaiāulu, 
a me ka maopopo o ke kānāwai. ʻAʻole wau e koho i nā kānāwai e hoʻonui ai i nā kumukūʻai ola 
a e kākoʻo ana i ka hoʻoponopono aupuni e hoʻemi i nā lilo. E hoʻolohe wau i kou mau pono a lilo 
wau i leo no ko mākou kaiāulu. Hoʻohiki wau e hāʻawi i 20% o kaʻu uku i ka moku 20—e aʻo hou e 
pili ana i kaʻu hoʻohiki “20 no 20” ma kaʻu kaha pūnaewele. Me kāu koho pāloka, hiki iā mākou ke 
hoʻolilo kūpono hou iā Hawaiʻi. He mea hanohano ke kūmakaʻāina ia ʻoukou. Mahalo!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SOLOMON, Corinne S.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Corinne S. Solomon 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 20
SolomonforHawaii.com
SolomonforHawaii@gmail.com
(808) 650-3245
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō39Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 21
 Ua hauʻoli wau i ka hā o ka hanauna ʻAmelika i hānau ʻia a hānai ʻia ma ka ʻāpana 
21, a hauʻoli wau i koʻu lilo ʻana i panihakahaka no ʻehā makahiki. Ma muli o ka pahuhopu o ka 
hoʻokumu ʻana i Hawaiʻi kahi e pōmaikaʻi ai nā ʻohana kūloko, ua koi au i nā kānāwai e hoʻonui ai 
i ka loaʻa ʻana o nā hale kūpono no nā kamaʻāina, e hoʻonui i ke kālā no nā ʻoihana hoʻonaʻauao 
aupuni, a me ka hoʻopau ʻana i nā ʻoihana ʻona. Inā koho hou au, manaʻo wau e kālele i kēia 
mau manaʻo ma waho aʻe o nā mea ʻē aʻe, e like me ka hoʻomohala ʻana i ka limahana mālama 
olakino, ka mālama ʻana i nā condominiums, a me ka hoʻololi ʻana i ka ʻāina mokuʻāina hakahaka 
i hale kūʻai.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SAYAMA, Jackson D.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jackson D. Sayama 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 21
www.jacksonsayama.com
jackson@jacksonsayama.com
(808) 772-6145
 Aloha! ʻO ka hiki ke ʻimi i kāu koho balota i mea e pani ai iā ʻoe i ka Hale o nā 
Lunamaka’āinana Moku’āina he hanohano. ʻO ka manawa kēia e hoʻoponopono ai i nā kumu o 
kā mākou pilikia koʻikoʻi i mea e hoʻomaikaʻi ai i ko mākou kaiāulu. I ka makahiki i hala iho nei, 
ua haʻalele ka nui o nā ʻohana kūloko i nā mokupuni, me ka haʻi ʻana i ke kumu nui o ka noho 
ʻana. Pono mākou e hoʻoponopono hou a hoʻemi i kā mākou ʻauhau i mea e hāʻawi ai i ke kōkua 
waiwai. Eia kekahi, pono mākou e hoʻopau i nā lula a me nā lula paʻakikī. Pono e paʻa nā kānāwai 
i ka hakakā ʻana i ka hewa a me ka mālama ʻana i nā ʻohana, ʻo ia ka pōhaku kihi o nā kaiāulu 
ikaika. I ka ʻimi ʻana i ka pono o ko lākou poʻe kamaʻāina, ʻaʻohe kuleana o kā mākou poʻe 
kālai’āina i kā lākou hoʻohana ʻana i nā kālā aupuni a me kā lākou lawelawe ʻana i nā kulekele. ʻO 
ka manawa kēia e hoʻololi iā Hawaiʻi i wahi e pakele ai kā mākou mau keiki.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SEASHELL, Joelle
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Joelle M. Seashell 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 21
Houserepd21@gmail.com
(808) 799-0253
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
40Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 22
 ʻO ka lawelawe ʻana ma ke ʻano he mākaʻikaʻi mokuʻāina no ka Apana 22 he 
hanohano o ke ola a pau, a ke mahalo nui nei au i kou hilinaʻi ʻana iaʻu. I koʻu kau ʻōlelo mua, 
ua hana nui mākou i ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i kā mākou ʻōnaehana mālama ola, hoʻomau i nā 
hoʻopukapuka i makemake nui ʻia i ka hoʻonaʻauao aupuni, a me ka hoʻokuʻu ʻana i nā ʻauhau 
no ke kōkua ʻana i nā ʻohana hana. Eia naʻe, mamao loa kā mākou hana. Ua hoʻolilo au i kaʻu 
ʻoihana holoʻokoʻa i ka lawelawe ʻana i ka lehulehu, a i mea e hoʻomau ai i ka manawa a mākou i 
hana ai i ka hoʻoponopono ʻana i kekahi o nā pilikia paʻakikī o Hawaiʻi, ke holo nei au no ke koho 
hou ʻana. Ma koʻu makua kāne o nā kaikamāhine maikaʻi ʻelua, he manaʻo koʻikoʻi koʻu e hōʻoia 
i hiki iā Hawaiʻi ke kākoʻo i kā lākou hanauna a ʻaʻole koi ʻia lākou e haʻalele i nā mokupuni no ka 
ʻimi ʻana i nā manawa kūpono ma waho. E hoʻomau kākou i ka hana pū ʻana e hana i kahi wā e 
hiki mai ana no kēlā me kēia. Mahalo no kou kākoʻo!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
GARRETT, Andrew Takuya
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Andrew Takuya Garrett 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 22
www.andrewtakuyagarrett.com
andrewtakuyagarrett@gmail.com
(808) 354-1108
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
IMAMURA, Jeffrey H.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jeffrey H. Imamura 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 22
jeffimamuraforhawaii@gmail.com
(808) 927-0660
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō41Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 24
 ʻO Jillian Anderson - ke koho “e hana maoli kāua” . I ka ʻekolu o koʻu mau makahiki, 
ua neʻe au i Waikiki, hele i ka Sacred Hearts Academy mai K-12, a ua puka au i ka summa cum 
laude mai UH Manoa ma ke aʻo ʻana i ʻekolu mau ʻoihana (kālā, kūʻai, a me ka ʻoihana) a me 
ka mōʻaukala. I loko o nā makahiki pōkole wale nō, ua ʻike ʻole ʻia nā ʻano he nui o ko mākou 
mokuʻāina. ʻAʻole hiki ke hoʻopaʻa ʻia ke kumukūʻai, nui ka home ʻole, he mea maʻamau ka hewa, 
ke hāʻule nei kā mākou ʻoihana, a ke emi nei ka maikaʻi o ke ola. No ʻekolu kau kānāwai, ua noho 
au i loko o nā ʻauwaha e hana ana no ko mākou Hale Mokuʻāina (ma mua ma ke ʻano he Kānāwai 
a i kēia manawa ʻo ke poʻo nui o nā limahana no ke alakaʻi kulekele ʻoi aku ka liʻiliʻi o ka hale) a 
ke komo nei au me ko mākou kaiāulu ma ke ʻano he lālā o ko mākou Kaiāulu Waikiki. Papa. ʻAʻole 
hiki iā mākou ke nānā wale aku i ka piʻi ʻana o nā pilikia he nui - pono mākou e hana. E aʻo hou e 
pili ana i kaʻu mea e hana ai ma: www.jillianforhawaii.com a i ʻole @jillianforhawaii (Instagram).
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ANDERSON, Jillian T.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jillian T. Anderson 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 24
www.jillianforhawaii.com
jillianforhawaii@gmail.com
 ʻO koʻu inoa ʻo Adrian Tam. Ua hānau a hānai ʻia mai nei ma Honolulu, he haʻa haʻa 
koʻu e lawelawe ai, ua puka au i ke Kula Kiʻe Kiʻe Kalani me ka hanohano. Ma hope o koʻu puka 
ʻana mai i ke Kulanui Penn State, ua hoʻi au i ka hale e hana ai no ka ʻoihana ʻohana oʻu. Ma ka 
hauʻoli e hoʻomaikaʻi ai i koʻu ʻohana a me koʻu ʻano e makemake ai e ʻike i nā lawelawe maikaʻi 
loa, loaʻa iaʻu ka loaʻa ʻana i ka lawelawe no ka poʻe ma ka ʻAhaʻōlelo o ka Mokuʻāina Hawaiʻi. 
Ma hope o kekahi mau makahiki ma ka ʻoihana he limahana, ua hanohano ʻia au i ka wae ʻia i 
kāu Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina ma ka makahiki 2020 i ke kūlanakauhale loa o ke ahulau ʻo 
COVID-19. ʻO kaʻu kūleʻa, he mea maikaʻi no koʻu mau hoa. ʻO ka manaʻo e kōkua i ka lōkahi 
kūʻokoʻa, ka pololei ʻana, ka uku noho, a me ka hoʻolako i nā kālā nui no nā hana nui no ko mākou 
ahupuaʻa. He mau mea nui hoʻi ia oʻu i pono, e pili ana i nā pilikia nui o ka mokuʻāina, e like me 
ka poʻe home ʻole, ka hoʻolako ʻoihana, nā hale noho pono, a me ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou 
kaiapuni. He hanohano nui koʻu e lawe hou aku ai iā ʻoukou, a ke noi aku nei me ke haʻahaʻa i 
kou kōkua.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TAM, Adrian
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Adrian K. Tam 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 24
adrianforhawaii.com
info@adrianforhawaii.com
(808) 388-8281
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
42Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 27
 Ua male au no 31 makahiki, he ʻekolu mau keiki 3, a he ʻoihana waiwai nui. He mea 
hale au, nona ka ʻoihana, a me ka mea hoʻopukapuka. Ua hānau ʻia au a hānai ʻia ma Philippines. 
He poʻe malihini Kina koʻu mau mākua. He puka au no ke Kulanui o Hawaii, Manoa. Ua komo loa 
au i loko o ko mākou mau ʻekalesia kūloko a he lālā o ka Papa Hoʻokele waiwai o Honolulu. ʻO 
kaʻu kūlana hana, kūpaʻa, hoʻoikaika ikaika, makemake, a me kaʻu ʻike nui i nā hana ʻoihana 
e lilo i mea hoʻohui waiwai a kōkua i ko mākou mokuʻāina. ʻO kaʻu mau mea nui e pili ana i ka 
pale ʻana a me ka hāpai ʻana i ka pono o kā mākou mau keiki; ka hoʻopau ʻana i ka hewa, ka 
hoʻohana ʻana i ka lāʻau lapaʻau i ke kānāwai, ka ʻoihana ʻulaʻula, a me ka hoʻolilo ʻana i nā kālā 
ʻauhau; a me ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou home ʻole. ʻO kaʻu mau loina e pili ana i ka ʻoiaʻiʻo, ke 
kuleana, a me ke kuleana. Ke holo nei au i ka oihana e haawi hou a e hoonui i ke ola o na kanaka o 
Hawaii. Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i kāu kākoʻo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
LIM, Margaret U.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Margaret U. Lim 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 27
www.lim4hawaii.com
margaret@lim4hawaii.com
(808) 551-4532
 I mea e hōʻike pono ai i kou mau makemake i ka ʻAhaʻōlelo a kōkua i nā pono o ke 
kaiāulu, ua hoʻoikaika au i ka hoʻokumu ʻana i ke kamaʻilio ākea a pane aku me nā hoalauna. I 
mea e hāʻawi ai i ka leo i kāu mau mea nui, paʻa wau e mālama mau i ka leka uila, leka uila, a me 
nā leka kelepona ma waho o nā hālāwai kaiāulu a me ke kākoʻo ʻana i nā bila me nā kamaʻāina. 
Ma ke ʻano he Hope Poʻo o ke Kōmike Ola & Homelessness, ʻo kaʻu wahi i nānā ʻia he hemahema 
i ka limahana lapaʻau, ka hoʻonui ʻana i nā papahana no ke olakino noʻonoʻo a me ka hoʻohana 
hewa ʻana i ka lāʻau lapaʻau, nā lawelawe no ka poʻe home ʻole i kūkulu ʻia ma nā hoʻomau 
mālama lōʻihi, a me ka wā lōʻihi. nā mea mālama e kākoʻo i nā kūpuna i ka wā ʻelemakule. Nui 
aʻe nā hana e hana ʻia ma kēia mau pilikia a me nā hopohopo kaiāulu e pili ana i ka hewa, ke 
kumukūʻai o ke ola, ka hale, a me ka mālama ʻana i ke ʻano a me ka maikaʻi o ko mākou mau 
kaiāulu aʻu e hoʻomau ai e kamaʻilio inā koho hou ʻia. He mea pono ke koho i keia moku a ke noi 
haahaa aku nei au i ko oukou kokua. Mahalo no kou noonoo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TAKENOUCHI, Jenna
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jenna W.Y.C. Takenouchi 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 27
jennatakenouchi.com
jenna.takenouchi@gmail.com
(808) 368-7311
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō43Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 29
 PUMUHAU: No ka hoʻopaʻa ʻana i ka wā e hiki mai ana no ko kākou kaiāulu a me 
ko Hawaiʻi a pau ma o ke alakaʻi kumu. OHANA: - ʻOhana Lardizabal (ʻaoʻao makuahine) mai 
Tagudin, Ilocos Sur - ʻOhana Hussey (ʻaoʻao makua kāne) mai Kohala, Hawaiʻi Mokupuni - Wahine 
a me ʻekolu keiki HANA: - Mea hoʻomohala i nā papahana lā a ke kaiāulu a me ka ʻenehana 
hoʻololi i ke aniau - Ma mua: Ahaolelo Mokuaina o Hawaii; E HUI IA NEI 5 PAPA KUAI OLE: - Hale 
Hana Ho’opa’i Kuleana (Puuku) - Kula Hanahau’oli - Hawaii Housing Development Corporation - 
HAPA - Kalihi Valley Neighborhood Board - Aina Aloha Economic Futures (Puuku) Hoʻonaʻauao: 
- MA, Political Science (UH Manoa) - BA, Peace & Futures Studies (UH Manoa) HOBBIES: - Mea 
hoʻokani pila - Ke aʻo ʻana i nā mea hou (ka ʻepekema ʻē aʻe) NUI KĀWAI: - Hoʻopau i ka palaho 
- Hoʻoponopono i nā kumu o ka home ʻole a me ka maluhia ʻole o ka hale - Ka hoʻokele kaʻa, 
nā alanui, ka palekana o ka poʻe hele wāwae - Ke hewa a me ka palekana - ʻO ka hoʻokaʻawale 
kūpono ʻana o ka waihona kālā mokuʻāina.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HUSSEY, Ikaika Lardizabal
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Ikaika M.L. Hussey 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 29
ikaika.house
ikaikahussey@gmail.com
(808) 221-2843
 Ke holo nei au no ka oihana no ka mea: Hana wau no ke aupuni, a ua hāʻawi mai 
ka Haku iaʻu i ke kuleana o ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou kūlanakauhale. ʻAʻole hōʻike hou ko 
mākou lāhui a me ko mākou alakaʻi i nā loina akua. Nalo nā kumu, e like me ka wahaheʻe ʻole, 
ka hoʻopunipuni, ka ʻaihue, a me ka pepehi kanaka. Ua lawelawe au i ko kakou kaiaulu a me ka 
Mokuaina no na makahiki he umi i hala iho nei ma ke ano he limahana o ka Ahaolelo, a aole au 
i ike i ka holomua. Ke pilikia nei ko mākou kaiāulu ma muli o ka haʻalele ʻana o ka poʻe, ka pani 
ʻana o nā hui, ka hewa i waho o ka mana, a me nā poʻe noho pilikia. Ua hele au i ke kula kiʻekiʻe o 
Kamehameha, Kamehameha High, a me Maʻemaʻe Elementary e ulu ana ma kēia kaiāulu. Ua hana 
ʻo ia ma Kalihi Union Church, Kamehameha Schools Preschools, the State Capitol, and New Hope. 
Ua lawelawe ʻo ia no nā makahiki ʻoi aku ma mua o ʻumi ma luna o nā papa o ka Lanakila Multi-
Purpose Senior Center a me ka Neighborhood Board. Aloha au i koʻu kaiaulu, a he hoʻhanohano 
ke koho ʻana iā ʻoe, e ʻoluʻolu e koho iā Kaapu, ʻo Carole Kauhiwai.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KAAPU, Carole Kauhiwai
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Carole Kauhiwai Kaapu 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 29
CaroleKaapu.org
Carole.Kaapu@gmail.com
(805) 628-2822
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
44Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 30
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
AZINGA, P. M.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
P. M. Azinga 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 30
azinga-district30.godaddysites.com
nzhinza@gmail.com
(808) 202-1341
 He kanaka lawelawe aupuni ʻo Shirley me ʻumi makahiki o kāna ʻoihana. Ua lawelawe 
ʻo ia i ʻehiku mau makahiki me ke kūlanakauhale a me ke Kalana o Honolulu, ka ʻAhaʻōlelo ʻAha 
o ke kūlanakauhale e hoʻoholo ana i nā manaʻo o ka lehulehu, ke poʻo i nā papahana kaiāulu, a 
me ka nānā ʻana i nā kānāwai o ke kūlanakauhale. Ua hoʻomaka ʻo Shirley i ka ʻoihana e kōkua 
i nā ʻoihana kūloko i ka wā maʻi COVID-19. Me kāna hoa pāʻoihana, ua hoʻokumu lākou i ka ‘Ilima 
Marketing, kahi hui kūʻai kikohoʻe e kōkua kūikawā i nā hale kūʻai makuahine a me pop. Ua 
holomuaʻo Shirley i kāna ʻoihana kālaiʻāina ma ke komo ʻana i ʻelua kau ʻelua o ka ʻAhaʻōlelo o 
ka Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi, kahi āna i kālailai, hoʻoponopono, a haku i nā kānāwai a me nā ʻōlelo 
hoʻoholo. He kauā aupuni kūpaʻa ʻo Shirley e hāʻawi manawaleʻa ana e hāpai i nā kaiāulu like 
ʻole. Aia ʻo ia ma ka Papa Kaiāulu ʻo Kalihi-Palama, Farrington High School Community Council, a 
ʻo ia ka Luna Hoʻomalu me ka ʻAha Kūkākūkā 30 o ka Hale ʻAoʻao Kemokalaka. ʻO ia nō ka mea 
nāna i hoʻokumu iā Keeping Up With Kalihi, he hui pūnaewele i hoʻolaʻa ʻia no ka hoʻoikaika ʻana 
iā Kalihi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TEMPLO, Shirley Ann Labadan
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Shirley Ann Labadan Templo 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 30
shirleytemplo.com
shirley@shirleytemplo.com
(808) 748-9990
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō45Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 31
 Aloha! ʻO Linda Ichiyama koʻu inoa a he hanohano ka lawelawe ʻana ma ke ʻano he 
Lunamakaʻāinana mai 2010. Ua hānau ʻia au a hānai ʻia ma Salt Lake a haʻaheo wau e kāhea 
aku i ka home. Ua puka au mai ke kula haʻahaʻa o Salt Lake, ke kula kiʻekiʻe o Moanalua, a me ke 
kula kiʻekiʻe o Moanalua, ma mua o koʻu hele ʻana i ke kulanui o Georgetown a me ke kulanui o 
Hawaiʻi ma Manoa William S. Richardson School of Law. Ke hana like nei au me ko mākou poʻe 
kālai’āina no ka hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i kā mākou mau kula, e like me ka MoHS Performing Arts Center 
hou a me ke kahua kinipōpō pōhili. Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i kāu kākoʻo i kēia koho balota 2024. E 
ʻoluʻolu e leka uila iaʻu ma repichiyama@gmail.com me kekahi nīnau a hopohopo paha.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ICHIYAMA, Linda
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Linda E.I. Chong 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 31
www.lindaichiyama.com
Lindaichiyama@gmail.com
(808) 392-4547
 Aloha, ʻo wau ʻo Nancy Valdez. He 55 makahiki au a noho au ma Moanalua/Salt Lake, 
Moku 31. Ma ke ʻano he moho no ka noho Lunamakaʻāinana o ka Hale o Hawaiʻi ma ka Moku 31, 
ke hoʻohiki nei au e lilo au i ʻōlelo aʻoaʻo hilinaʻi a hilinaʻi no ko mākou kaiāulu. ʻO kaʻu ʻoihana 
e hoʻolohe a hoʻoponopono i nā hopohopo o nā lālā o ke kaiāulu me ka ʻike a me ke kuleana. 
Pono ko mākou kaiāulu i alakaʻi e hana koke i nā pilikia, pane i nā hoʻopiʻi, hoʻolaha i ka palekana, 
hoʻokipa i nā manaʻo hou a me nā ala e hoʻomaikaʻi ai i ka maikaʻi o ko mākou kaiāulu a me ka 
maikaʻi o ke ola. Mahalo, Nancy Valdez
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
VALDEZ, Nancy A.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Nancy A. Valdez 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 31
nancyavaldez@yahoo.com
(808) 489-3128
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
46Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 32
 Aloha. Ke kū nei au no ka hōʻea hou i ka ʻaha ʻōlelo mokuʻāina i ke kūlana o ka 
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina e lawelawe ai i nā kānaka o ka Moku 32. No ka pau aʻu o kaʻu ola, 
he 35 makahiki, ua ʻike au i koʻu makuahine, ke Kenekoa Donna Mercado Kim, e hoʻomākaukau 
i ka pono, e hoʻonui i ka maikaʻi o Hawaiʻi, he wahi maikaʻi ma mua oʻu e noho ai. ʻĒ, ua maikaʻi 
nō kekahi o kou hana e koho ʻia ai. Ua noho au i Moanalua no koʻu mau makahiki a pau. Pono 
nā luna ma mua o kā kākou kaiāulu e lilo i luna hoʻokahi e hāʻawi i ka pono, ka maopopo, a me 
ka hoʻokolokolo. E hana mau ʻia ana e hana hāʻawi i ka manaʻo maikaʻi me ka poʻe e lawe ana i 
ka pono a e hoʻolohe i ko lākou leo ma nā koho a pau āu e hana ai. Eia au e lilo nei i leo maikaʻi, 
leo pono i ka hōʻike manaʻo, e kākoʻo ana i nā kānāwai e pono ai, a e hoʻokō ana i ka pono o 
ko kākou aupuni, ma ka hoʻonohonoho ʻana o koʻu ʻike ʻana he 8 makahiki ma ke kānāwai. Ua 
hoʻomaikaʻi ʻia au e lawelawe, a mahalo au iā ʻoe no kou noʻonoʻo a me kou koho.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
AIU, Micah Pookela Kim
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Micah Pookela Kim Aiu 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 32
micahaiu.com
vote@micahaiu.com
(808) 429-9335
 Aloha E nā hoa, I hoʻoulu ʻia e ka leo hohonu e lawelawe i ko kākou kaiāulu, hauʻoli 
wau e hoʻolaha i koʻu moho no ke koho balota 2024. ʻOiai ka hoʻomaka ʻana o ka hoʻomaka ʻana, 
he 246 wale nō kā mākou koho mai kahi hoʻololi nui i 2022. Hōʻike kēia i ka mana nui i loʻa iā 
mākou ma ke ʻano he hui. Pono mākou i ka ʻoiaʻiʻo a me ka ʻike i ko mākou aupuni i kēia manawa 
ma mua o ka wā. Hoʻolaʻa wau i ka waiho ʻana i kahi hoʻoilina maikaʻi no nā hanauna e hiki mai 
ana a no kēia lā. He 30+ ka makahiki hou au ma ka ʻoihana, ke kaiāulu, a me ka hoʻomana. Ua 
loaʻa iaʻu nā mana koʻikoʻi e pono ai e lawelawe a hoʻoholo i ka pōmaikaʻi o nā poʻe ʻē aʻe ma 
o ka hoʻokele ʻana i kahi ʻoihana ʻohana a me ka lawelawe ʻana ma nā kūlana i koho ʻia ma ke 
ʻano he Pelekikena o ka Sheet Metal Contractors Association a me ka Hui Kaiāulu o Moanalua 
Valley. Ke noi aku nei au me ka mahalo i kāu mau pule, kākoʻo, a me ka manaʻoʻiʻo. Hiki iā mākou 
ke hoʻololi i ke ala o ko mākou hopena, akā ʻaʻole hiki iaʻu ke hana me ka ʻole o kāu koho. Mahalo, 
Garner Shimizu
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SHIMIZU, Garner Musashi
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Garner M. Shimizu 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 32
voteshimizu.com
voteshimizu@gmail.com
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō47Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 34
 Aloha ʻoe ʻo Gaius koʻu inoa, hiki iā ʻoe ke kapa iaʻu Kipi. Noho au ma ke 
kūlanakauhale momi, nā pali pacific. E like paha me kāu e nīnau nei, no ke aha e koho ai ʻoe no 
kekahi e like me aʻu? He aha kaʻu e hiki ke lawe mai ai? He aha nā loli hiki iaʻu ke hana? He aha 
kaʻu e ʻike ai? He mau nīnau maikaʻi kēia a pau, akā ʻaʻole hiki iaʻu ke pane aku i loko o ka 150 
mau huaʻōlelo hiki iaʻu ke hoʻokomo i kēia pahu. ʻO ka mea hiki iaʻu ke haʻi aku, ʻaʻole au hauʻoli 
i ka hana a kā mākou mau poʻe politika, kā mākou mau luna aupuni, a me nā poʻe i kuleana ma 
luna o ko mākou home, ko mākou mau kaiāulu. ʻO ʻoe e koho mai iaʻu ke hoʻoholo ʻoe e hoʻohāna 
i au e hana no ʻoe. Aia au i kēia kaiāulu, e ʻike ʻoe iaʻu e hele wāwae ana, e ʻike hoʻi ʻoe iaʻu e 
kalaiwa ana i ke kaʻa ʻōhua, ʻo ia hoʻi hiki iā ʻoe ke wehewehe kūikawā i kāu mau pono a me nā 
makemake iaʻu. He leo maoli o ka poʻe. Mahalo
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DUPIO, Gaius, II
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Gaius K. Dupio II
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 34
gpearlcity@gmail.com
(808) 343-7314
 Ua lawelawe ʻo Gregg Takayama ma ka Hale o ka Mokuʻāina he 12 mau makahiki, ma 
hope o kona komo ʻana i ka ʻoihana kūkala nū hou me ka lanakila loa, a he luna hoʻokala manaʻo 
ʻo ia no ke Kenekoa ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa kahiko, ʻo Dan Inouye, a laila, no ke Kulanui o Hawaiʻi. 
ʻO kekahi o kāna mau hana holomua loa, ʻo ka ʻāpono ʻana aku i nā kānāwai no ke kōkua ʻana o 
ka Mokuʻāina i ka poʻe lawelawe olakino no nā ʻohana (ʻo ia ka mua loa ma ʻAmelika), ke kūkulu 
ʻana i ke komikina hoʻomalu hoʻoponopono i ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi o nā hale paʻahao, a me ke kāohi 
ʻana i nā ahikao lele haki kānāwai ma lalo o kekahi kōmike Mokuʻāina. Na Gregg i hoʻopaʻa he 
$60 miliona a ʻoi no ka hoʻoponopono ʻana i nā kula o Pearl City no nā lumi papa hou, nā mīkini 
hoʻonaʻauao hou, a me nā mīkini hōʻoluʻolu ea. Ua kākoʻo ʻia kona holo moho hou ʻana e ka 
ʻuniona, ʻo ka Hawaiʻi State Teachers Association. Ua kōkua ʻo ia i ka hoʻomāhuahua ʻana i ka 
puʻu kālā no nā polokalamu no nā kūpuna e hiki ai i ka poʻe kino nāwaliwali a me nā kūpuna ke 
noho me ka palekana ma ka home, me nā mea ʻai halihali ʻia aku iā lākou, nā lawelawe ʻana e 
pono ai ma ka home, a me ka halihali ʻana ma ke kaʻa. Ua hoʻomaikaʻi ʻia ʻo Gregg ma lalo o ka 
AARP me ka hāʻawi aku iā ia ʻo ka Makana Hāʻawi Kālā Manawaleʻa, a pēia nō hoʻi ma lalo o ka 
Alzheimer’s Association no ke kōkua ʻana i ka poʻe maʻi i ka maʻi poina.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
TAKAYAMA, Gregg
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Gregg  Takayama 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 34
greggtakayama.com
greggtakayama@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 382-3212
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
48Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 37
 He aha kāu ʻike? He aha kāu mau manaʻolana a me nā moemoeā no Hawaiʻi? He 
aha nā hiʻohiʻona o kā mākou mau keiki? He aha nā manaʻolana a me nā manaʻo no ke Keiki o 
Hawaiʻi? He mana ka hoʻonaʻauao, a ʻo ka ʻike hana e wehe i nā puka o nā koho pono ma Aloha 
Hawaii.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KAAUMOANA, Taylor
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Taylor K. Kaaumoana 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 37
votetaylork.com
votetaylork@gmail.com
(808) 342-9160
 Aloha, Ma ke ‘ano he Lunamaka’āinana no ka Moku 37 , ua hana nui au e ho’omaopopo 
i ka lohe ‘ia, ka waiwai, a me ke kāko’o ‘ia o ka po’e kama’āina o ko mākou kaiāulu. I nā makahiki 
ʻelua i hala iho nei, ua hoʻomaikaʻi mākou i ka palekana o ke kaiāulu, hoʻihoʻi hou i nā lawelawe 
kaʻa kula, wehe hou i ke kahua hockey Mililani, hoʻomaʻemaʻe i ke kahua hoʻomoana home ʻole 
o Kipapa, a pale i kā mākou keiki mai nā pōʻino o ka e-cigarette. Akā nui hou ka hana e hana. Ke 
holo nei au no ka kau ʻelua ma 2024 e hoʻomau i ka hakakā no nā kumuhana nui loa. E hoʻomau 
wau e kākoʻo i nā kulekele e pili ana i ka palekana lehulehu, ka ho‘ēmi i ke kumukūʻai o nā hale 
a me ke kumukūʻai ola, ka hoʻopukapuka ʻana i kā mākou kula, ke kākoʻo i nā ʻoihana kūloko, a 
me ka hāʻawi ʻana i ka hoʻomaikaʻi i ke olakino a me ka hele ʻana no kā mākou kaiāulu. Ma koʻu 
makuahine e hānai ana i kaʻu mau keiki ma ko mākou moku, ua kūpaʻa wau i ka mālama ʻana i 
ko mākou kaiāulu i wahi maikaʻi loa e noho ai a hānai i ko mākou ʻohana. Hiki iā mākou ke hana i 
kahi ʻokoʻa maoli. Ma ka lawelawe, Trish
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
LA CHICA, Trish
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Mae Patricia Q. La Chica 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 37
www.trishlachica.com
hello@trishlachica.com
(808) 799-4620
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō49Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 38
 He hanohano ka lilo ʻana i luna o Mililani no 12 makahiki ma ka lālani. Ua pili kēia 
kaiāulu i koʻu puʻuwai no ka mea ua hānau ʻia a hānai au ma ʻaneʻi a ke hānai nei au i koʻu 
ʻohana ponoʻī. Ua hele haʻaheo au i nā kula o Mililani a ua loaʻa iaʻu kaʻu mau laepua mai ke 
Kulanui o Hawaiʻi, Masters mai ke Kulanui o Hawaiʻi Pākīpika a me ka Doctorate mai ke Kulanui ʻo 
Argosy. ʻO kaʻu hoʻonaʻauao, hui pū ʻia me koʻu ʻike kau kānāwai, ua kūpono iaʻu e kū i ko mākou 
ʻāpana me ka holomua. Mai koʻu koho ʻia ʻana i ka makahiki 2012, ua hoʻoikaika au e loaʻa ka 
ʻike e pono ai e lawelawe iā ʻoe a lilo i loio kūpono. ʻO ka wehe ʻana me ʻoe kaʻu pahuhopu nui, e 
hōʻoia i ana e pili ana kāu mau hiʻohiʻona i nā kulekele i nā pilikia koʻikoʻi e like me ke kumukūʻai 
ola kiʻekiʻe, ka hale, ka home ʻole, ka hewa, ka hewa a me ka ʻike aupuni. Eia naʻe, ʻo koʻu ʻiʻini 
paʻa ʻole a me koʻu pili ʻana iā Mililani ua kūpono loa iaʻu, a he mea hanohano ke hoʻomau i ka 
lawelawe ʻana iā ʻoe.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
CHEAPE MATSUMOTO, Lauren
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Lauren K. Matsumoto 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 38
laurenforhawaii.com
lauren@laurenforhawaii.com
(808) 358-7816
 ʻO Mililani ke kūlanakauhale maikaʻi loa ma Hawaiʻi. Ua loaʻa koʻu ʻohana i ka 
puʻuhonua ma laila no ʻekolu hanauna, a ua paʻa wau e hoʻomau i ka hoʻoulu ʻana a me ka 
hānai ʻana i nā mea hou aku. Ma ka hoʻolako ʻana i nā kumuwaiwai no ka hale, ka meaʻai a me ka 
mahiʻai, ka hoʻonaʻauao, a me ka halihali, hiki iā mākou ke hoʻoponopono i ka pilikia i hoʻokumu 
ʻia e ka piʻi ʻana o nā lilo ola. Pono ka lunamaka’āinana ma Mililani e hoʻokumu i ka hoʻokomo, ka 
kaulike, a me ka ʻokoʻa no ko mākou poʻe kamaʻāina. Pono ke aupuni demokala ikaika a holomua 
i ka hana i hoʻonohonoho ʻia, ka uku ola, ka mālama ola kino āpau, nā kuleana wahine, a me ka 
hoʻolako ʻana i kahi wahi palekana a hoʻokipa no nā kānaka o nā lāhui a me nā manaʻoʻiʻo. Me 
kou kākoʻo, e pani au iā ʻoe ma ka Hale Kapito o ka Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi ma ke ʻano he loio hui, 
hiki ke hoʻokokoke, wehe, a kūleʻa
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
OZAWA, Alexander Kekuanao’a
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Alexander Mori Kekuanaoa Ozawa 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 38
alexozawa.com
alexozawa@gmail.com
(808) 554-1772
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
50Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 39
 Aloha hoalauna! ʻO ʻoe ka mea nui. ʻO ka lawelawe ʻana iā ʻoe ka mea e pili ana. ʻO 
kaʻu mau pahuhopu no ko mākou kaiāulu e loaʻa: Hoʻemi ʻia ka hewa, hoʻemi ʻia nā lilo ola, a 
me nā hale kūʻai ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi - emi ʻole ka hoʻonaʻauao maikaʻi ʻia - ʻO ka hoʻemi ʻana i 
ka hele ʻana ʻo ia kaʻu mau mea nui inā hāʻawi ʻia iaʻu i ʻelua makahiki o ka lawelawe ʻana iā 
ʻoe. E ʻoluʻolu e launa pū me aʻu ma ke kelepona ʻana a i ʻole ke kelepona ʻana i kaʻu kelepona 
paʻalima: (808)-258-3235. Makemake au e lohe mai iā ʻoe.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
PIERICK, Elijah
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Elijah I. Pierick 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 39
elijahpierick.com
elijah.pierick.publicservant@gmail.com
(808) 258-3235
 Ua kūpaʻa ʻo Corey Rosenlee i ka hakakā ʻana no nā ʻohana hana a me ka hāʻawi 
ʻana i ka wā e hiki mai ana no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. He kumu aʻo pilikanaka ʻo ia ma ke 
Kula Kiʻekiʻe ʻo Campbell no kahi kokoke i iwakālua makahiki. Ma lalo o kāna alakaʻi ʻana, ua 
aʻo ʻia nā kaukani o nā keiki o Oʻahu Komohana i ke koʻikoʻi o ka pilikanaka, ka hoʻoponopono 
pilikia kaiāulu, a me ke kuleana pilikanaka. Mai ka makahiki 2015-2021 mai, ua lawelawe ʻo Corey 
ma ke ʻano he Pelekikena o ka ʻAhahui Kumu o ka Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi, kahi āna i hana ai no ka 
hoʻonui ʻana i ke kālā kula, hoʻonui i ka uku kumu, a hoʻolako i ka ea e hoʻomaʻalili i nā lumi papa 
o kā mākou ʻōnaehana hoʻonaʻauao aupuni. He lālā ʻo ia no ka Papa ʻEwa Neighborhood Board 
i kēia manawa. Mai nā hale kūʻai aku a hiki i ka hoʻēmi ʻana i ke kaʻa a hiki i ka hoʻomākaukau 
ʻana i ka pōulia, maopopo ʻo Corey i nā pilikia koʻikoʻi e pili ana i ko mākou mokuʻāina. He 
poʻokela no ke ola o ka poʻe nāwaliwali loa o Hawaiʻi, ua mākaukau ʻo ia e hoʻihoʻi i ka kūpaʻa i 
ke aupuni kūloko a hāʻawi i nā hoʻonā maoli i nā pilikia e kū nei nā kamaʻāina o ko mākou home 
mokupuni.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ROSENLEE, Corey
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Corey A. Rosenlee 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 39
www.coreyrosenlee.com
coreyrosenlee@gmail.com
(808) 677-3537
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
51Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 40
 Ma kēia manawa, ʻo wau ka Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 40 i ka Hale 
Mokuʻāina. Ke ʻimi nei au i ka hoʻomau ʻana i ka hoʻoholo i nā hana i hoʻomaka ʻia e au ma koʻu 
moku. E mālama ʻia ana a hoʻomau ʻia nā hana kūpono aʻe i mea e lilo ai i muaʻāina no nā kahua 
kūloko ma koʻu moku ma o nā hana hoʻomohala waiwai i loaʻa ai no nā kula ma koʻu moku a pau. 
ʻOiai hoʻopaʻa a hoʻopaʻa pū nō hoʻi au i kekahi mau pila a me kekahi mau hopena i hoʻopuka ʻia 
a kū i mua, a e hāʻawi ʻia ana ma ka hakuloli ʻana a lilo i kānāwai e hoʻonui ana i ka pono ma ka 
kaiāulu. Ma waho aʻe o ke kālā ʻana i nā papahana kula, hiki nō iaʻu ke loaʻa ke kālā mai ke Kōkua 
Kālā no ka papahana Weed and Seed, Hawaiʻi Humane Society a me Kuleana Coral Restoration. 
Aia nō hoʻi nā hana i hana ʻia e like me ka hoʻokumu ʻana i kahi hō‘ewe i kekahi o nā kū‘ono ka‘a 
ʻōhua ma ke Alanui Hanakahi a me ka hāʻawi ʻana i nā pāna‘i i nā hoʻopiʻi a nā kama‘āina. E 
hoʻoikaika mau ana au no ko‘u moku koho.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MARTINEZ, Rose
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Rosebella Locquiao Ellazar-Martinez 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 40
rosebella.martinez@icloud.com
(808) 224-1261
 ʻO Julie Reyes Oda koʻu inoa a ke holo nei au i ka ʻoihana no ka mea ke manaʻoʻiʻo 
nei au e hiki iā mākou ke hana maikaʻi aʻe e hoʻopaʻa i ko mākou wā e hiki mai ana ma Hawaiʻi. 
ʻO ko mākou kaiaulu ka mua. Ma ke ʻano he ʻelele mokuʻāina ʻē aʻe au, ua kūpaʻa wau e lilo i 
leo nou ma ka Hale Mokuʻāina. Inā koho ʻia, e hakakā au no nā kula maikaʻi, nā hana maikaʻi, 
nā kaiāulu palekana, ka hoʻokele waiwai ikaika, ka ʻoki ʻana i nā ʻōpala aupuni, a me ka ʻike o 
ke aupuni. E lilo wau i leo kūʻokoʻa no ko mākou kaiāulu a ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i kāu kākoʻo. E 
ʻoluʻolu e kipa iā JulieReyesOda.com e aʻo hou e pili ana iaʻu.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
REYES ODA, Julie
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Julie K. Reyes Oda 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 40
juliereyesoda.com
juliereyesoda@gmail.com
(808) 953-2054
 Ma koʻu moho kūʻokoʻa no ka Hale Mokuʻāina o ka mokuʻāina ʻo 40 o Hawaiʻi, ua 
kūpaʻa wau i ka mālama ʻana i nā kūlana kuleana a me ka lawelawe ʻana i nā pono o ko mākou 
kaiāulu. Pono mākou i ke alakaʻi e kū nei i ka pono a me ka hoʻoholo pono. Ua paʻa koʻu manaʻo 
e hana i nā pilikia koʻikoʻi e loaʻa nei i ko mākou moku. E hoʻoikaika pau ʻole wau e ʻimi i nā pane 
e kōkua iā mākou a pau, mai ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou kaiapuni a me ka hoʻolako ʻana i ka 
wai maʻemaʻe a me ka hoʻomaʻemaʻe ʻana a hiki i ka hōʻoia ʻana i nā kumukūʻai pono a me ka 
maopopo. ʻOi aku ka noʻonoʻo a me ka mahalo i ko mākou kaiāulu. Pono mākou e hoʻomohala i 
ke kahakai ʻo Ewa i kikowaena holomua me nā hui kaiaulu hou aku a me ke aupuni kūloko ʻoi aku 
ka mākaukau. ʻO ka manawa kēia no Westlock, Iroquois Point, Ewa Beach, a me Ewa e loaʻa ai ke 
kākoʻo a me ka nānā pono ʻana iā lākou. E hoʻokō kākou. PS Me ka hoʻohana ʻana i nā hōʻailona 
moʻomeheu like ʻole, nā hae, a me nā pua ma hope oʻu e like me ke kāmele hahai holoholona,   
wehewehe wau i kēia hiʻohiʻona no nā poʻe ʻike maka. ALOHA
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ULUFANUA, Christian P.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Christian P. Ulufanua 
ʻO Kākou Nā Makaʻāinana
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 40
ulufanua4ewa.com
ulufanua.christian@gmail.com
(915) 808-6800
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
52Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 41
 Aloha nō, ʻo au ʻo David Alcos, i ʻEwa Beach koʻu hoʻokumu ʻohana ʻana he ʻelima 
hanauna aku nei. Ua paʻa wau i ka ʻoihana kamanā a me ke kaʻi kime pāʻani, a he 20 oʻu 
makahiki ma ka lawelawe ʻana i koʻu ʻāpana. Ua hoʻohiki au i ka hana ʻana ā ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi 
o ko kākou noho ʻana ma kēia mokuʻāina nei, ka nānā nui i ka hoʻonaʻauao ʻana, ka palekana, ka 
lako like, ke kōkua i ka poʻe ʻaeʻa, a me ka mea e hauʻoli ai ka lehulehu. Ua piʻi koʻu ohohia i ka 
paipai ʻana i nā pōmaikaʻi o kēia mua iho. Mahalo no ke kākoʻo ʻana mai iaʻu, iaʻu nō e hoʻomau 
nei i ke kūkulu i nā loli e pono ai ko kākou mau kaona a no nā hanauna no kēia mua aku.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ALCOS, David A., III
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
David A. Alcos III
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 41
RepAlcos.com
teamalcos41@gmail.com
(808) 864-6928
 E lawelawe ana i ka ʻāina, ke kaiāulu, a me ʻoe… Ma hope o koʻu lawelawe ʻana i ka 
Navy o ko kākou lāhui no 30 mau makahiki a i kēia manawa ke komo nei i koʻu makahiki he 10 ma 
ka ‘Ewa Neighborhood Board, e ulu mau ana koʻu kūpaʻa i ke kaiāulu a me ke aloha i ka lawelawe. 
ʻO ka Apana 41 (‘Ewa Beach, ‘Ewa Gentry, Ocean Pointe, Kalaʻeloa, hapa o Ko Olina) kekahi o nā 
ʻāpana like ʻole a paʻa loa i ka poʻe ma Oʻahu. Makemake au e hōʻoia i ka hoʻomākaukau ʻana o 
kā mākou kaiāulu ulu no ka holomua lōʻihi. ʻO ia ke ʻano o ka hana pū ʻana me nā luna kānāwai 
ʻē aʻe a me ka nānā ʻana i ka hoʻonui ʻana i ka nui o nā hana ma kā mākou Community; e ʻimi 
ana i nā haʻina no nā kaiāulu palekana; kākoʻo i nā papahana no nā hale kūpono; a me ka hōʻoia 
ʻana i kahi hoʻonaʻauao maikaʻi no kā mākou ʻōpio. Loaʻa iaʻu kahi kēkelē laepua ma ka hoʻokele 
ʻana i nā ʻoihana, ke kēkelē laepua ma ka hoʻokele ʻana i ka ʻaelike, a he mea kūʻai aku au a he 
mea hoʻokumu i kahi hui waiwai ʻole kūloko. ʻO kaʻu pahuhopu: hoʻomau i ka lawelawe ʻana i ka 
ʻāina, ke kaiāulu, a me ʻoe!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
CLARK, John H., III
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
John H. Clark III
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 41
friendsofjohnclark.com
info@friendsofjohnclark.com
(808) 428-1564
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō53Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 42
 Aloha Kākou, Mahalo no ka lawe ʻana i ka manawa e heluhelu ai i ke alakaʻi 
koho balota hou o Hawaiʻi. ʻO Diamond Garcia koʻu inoa, a ke mahalo nui nei au i ka manawa 
i loaʻa iaʻu i nā makahiki ʻelua i hala aku nei e pani no ʻoe a me kou ‘Ohana i ka Hale o nā 
Lunamaka’āinana. Hauʻoli wau i ka ʻōlelo ʻana, ʻoiai ua koho ʻia mākou e ka poʻe o ko mākou 
kaiāulu i ka makahiki 2022, ua hoʻomaka maikaʻi mākou, e kū ana i nā kumu koʻikoʻi i nā ʻohana 
ma West Oʻahu. Ke noi ʻiʻo nei au i kāu kōkua a koho balota i koʻu koho hou ʻana i ka Hale o ka 
Lunamakaʻāinana i hiki ai iā mākou ke hele i ke kaua kūʻē i ka hoʻokumu kālaiʻāina o Hawaiʻi a 
hoʻokō i nā mea hou aku no ko mākou kaiāulu. ʻAʻole hiki iā mākou ke nānā hou aku i ka hū ʻana 
a me ka neʻe ʻana o nā ʻohana kūloko i ka ʻāina nui o ʻAmelika a ke hoʻomau nei mākou i ke koho 
ʻana i nā alakaʻi nāna e hoʻokiʻekiʻe i ko mākou kumukūʻai o ke ola. Mahalo no kou noonoo! Ke 
Akua Pū (GodBlessYou)
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
GARCIA, Diamond
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Diamond D. Garcia 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 42
DiamondGarcia.com
RepresentativeGarcia@gmail.com
(808) 953-0483
 Aloha: ʻO wau ʻo Anthony Makana Paris. Ua hānai ʻia au a hānai ʻia ma Nānākuli a 
loaʻa iaʻu kahi home ma Kapolei i kēia manawa. Aia koʻu ʻohana i ka poʻe hana, a ua hoʻohana au 
i nā makahiki he 13 i hala e hana pū me ka poʻe hana hao. Loaʻa iaʻu nā kekelē ma ka ʻenekinia, 
theology, a me ke kānāwai mai MIT, Santa Clara, a me Richardson School of Law o UH. Ke lawelawe 
nei au i ko makou kaiaulu ma ke ano he Lunahoomalu o ka Papa Kaiapuni o Makakilo/Kapolei/
Honokai Hale, Hope Peresidena mua o ka Ahahui o na Kalapu Civic Hawaii, a me ka Luna o ka 
Papa no ka Hale Ola Nui o Wai’anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. Paʻakikī ko mākou mau 
kaiaulu me nā kaʻa paʻakikī, nā hale kūʻai ʻole, ka hewa, nā hana nalo, ka ʻelemakule a me nā 
ʻōnaehana pilikia i ke aniau, a me ka hoʻonaʻauao ʻole. Na ka hoʻoponopono ʻana iā lākou,pono, 
mākou e hoʻokumu i wahi no nā ʻohana kūloko ma o ka hoʻopuka ʻana i ka palekana meaʻai, 
ka mālama ʻana a me ka hoʻoulu ʻana i nā paka kahakai, hoʻihoʻi i nā ʻōnaehana, hoʻopau i ke 
Alanui Honolulu, a me ka hāʻawi ʻana i kālā no OHA a me DHHL ma ke ʻano o ka hoʻonā hale kūʻai 
holoʻokoʻa. Hiki iā kākou ke haʻalele iā Hawaiʻi no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. Mahalo!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
PARIS, Anthony Makana
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Anthony Makana Paris 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 42
www.votemakana.com
makana4house@gmail.com
(808) 398-2468
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
54Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 45
 Aloha, ʻo Desiré De Soto koʻu inoa. He kamaʻāina haʻaheo au no Mākaha a he 
huahana o nā kula aupuni o Hawaiʻi. Ua hele au i ke kula kiʻekiʻe o Mākaha Elementary, Waiʻanae 
Intermediate, a me Pearl City High School (‘91), kahi aʻu i ʻoi aku ai ma ka ʻauʻau ʻana ma kahi 
ʻokoʻa. ʻO koʻu kūpaʻa ʻana i ko mākou kaiāulu ʻaʻole paʻakikī. Ma hope o koʻu loaʻa ʻana mai ke 
Kulanui ʻo Whitworth ka makahiki (‘96), ua hoʻi au i Waiʻanae ma mua o koʻu aʻo ʻana ma ke kula 
ʻo Chaminade University i ka makahiki (‘01). ʻO kaʻu pahuhopu ʻo ia ka hāʻawi ʻana i ke kākoʻo 
maikaʻi loa no nā keiki o ko kākou kaiāulu, he misionari i paʻa loa i nā aʻo a koʻu mau kūpuna. 
Ua loaʻa iaʻu kahi Ph.D. i loko o ka hoʻonaʻauao psychology a kōkua i ka hoʻokumu Waiʻanae 
iā Whitworth ʻAuwai a me Papahana ʻo Kaiona (ALP). Ma ke ʻano kumu aʻoaʻo kula hoʻolaʻa, e 
hoʻomau wau i ke kākoʻo no ka pono o ko mākou kamaʻāina, ka manaʻo, ke kino, ka noʻonoʻo, a 
me ke kālā. No ka ‘ike hou aku, e kipa www.desiredesoto.com.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DESOTO, Desire Auguste
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Desire A. DeSoto 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 45
desiredesoto.com
desiredesoto@gmail.com
(808) 561-1110
 Hiki iaʻu ke kōkua i ka hana ʻana i ka loli e pono ai mākou e hoʻihoʻi i ko mākou 
kaiāulu ALOHA. Makemake wau e lohe mai iā ʻoe a loaʻa kāu koho.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MURAOKA, Chris
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Christopher L. Muraoka 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 45
chris4waianae@gmail.com
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō55Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 46
 No ke kikowaena o Oʻahu koʻu makemake nui e pani i nā wahi i hānai ʻia ai au. Ma 
mua o koʻu puka ʻana mai ke Kulanui o Hawaiʻi – West Oʻahu me ke kēkelē laepua ma ka ʻoihana 
me ka manaʻo i ka helu, ua hele au i ke kula haʻahaʻa o Kanoelani a me Hanalani. I koʻu ulu ʻana, 
noho au ma Whitmore, Wahiawa, Mililani, a me Waipio ma waena o Oʻahu. Ke lawe mai nei au i 
kaʻu huakaʻi holoʻokoʻa, kaʻu wahine, ʻelua keiki kāne, a me aʻu i kūʻai aku ai i hale ʻano mahiko 
ʻo Wahiawa i ka makahiki 2021. Ma keʻano he makua o ka ʻohana ʻōpio a he lālā pili i ke kaiāulu 
ma Wahiawa, ua ʻike au i ko mākou poʻe makemake e ʻike i ko lākou lunamakaʻāinana ke nānā 
aku nei iā lākou a ke hoʻoikaika pū nei au e pale i ko lākou ʻano ola. He mea hanohano ia’u ke pale 
a malama i ko kakou apana no na hanauna keiki e hiki mai ana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
GABRIEL, Daniel Michael
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Daniel M. Gabriel 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 46
dannymgabe@gmail.com
(808) 219-7078
 E hoʻomau wau i ka hakakā no ke koho pāloka maʻemaʻe a me ke aupuni pono. He 
mea koʻikoʻi mākou e hoʻokumu i ke kahua paʻa o ke aupuni maikaʻi i hiki iā mākou ke hoʻēmi i 
nā hopena o ka pōʻino o ke aniau ma nā ala kūpono a kaulike, a hoʻokumu i ka pono o ke kaiāulu 
ma o ka hoʻokumu ʻana i ka mana ʻai a me ka ikehu, kākoʻo ʻoi aku ka ikaika no ka lehulehu. ka 
hoʻonaʻauao olakino a me ka lehulehu, ka hoʻomohala noʻonoʻo ʻana i nā hale noho kūpono e 
hiki ke loaʻa ʻia maoli a me ka mālama maikaʻi ʻana i kā mākou waiwai hilinaʻi lehulehu e like me 
ka wai a me ka ʻāina. E hoʻomau mau wau i ka poʻe i nāwaliwali loa, a e hoʻomau wau i ka hana e 
hoʻoikaika i ka hilinaʻi o ka lehulehu i ke aupuni ma o ka hana manaʻo e pili ana i ka haʻi ʻoiaʻiʻo 
a me ke kūkulu ʻana i ka pilina. Ua ʻike au ua makemake koʻu kaiāulu e komo i ka hana nui e pono 
ai e hoʻolilo i kēia aupuni i mea e hiki ai iā mākou ke haʻaheo a me ka palekana, a ua hauʻoli wau 
e hana i kēia hana me ʻoe.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
PERRUSO, Amy A.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Amy A. Perruso 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 46
voteamyperruso.com
amyperruso@gmail.com
(808) 351-0980
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
56Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 47
 ʻO ke “alakaʻi kauā” ka mea e hoʻolohe iā ʻoe a kākoʻo i kou palekana, a me kou 
makemake. He kauā aupuni au ma ke ʻano a he kanaka kinai ahi hoʻomaha. Ke kākoʻo nei au i 
ka pale ʻana i kā mākou mau manaʻo hoʻomana, nā keiki a me nā pono o ko mākou mau mākua. 
Makemake au i ka laʻa o nā haʻuki wahine, ko lākou kuleana i ka pilikino, ko mākou kuleana e pale 
aku iā ia iho, a me ke kānāwai e mālama ana i ko mākou mau hoalauna a me nā ʻohana. Ke kū’ē 
nei au i nā papahana hoʻopaʻa ʻana, nā kānāwai mask, a me nā laka. Pono e hoʻokō ʻia nā palena 
manawa, pono e hoʻopau ʻia nā lilo aupuni pono ʻole, a pono e hoʻonui i ka pono. ʻAʻole hiki ke 
ʻae ʻia ke kumukūʻai o ka hale, ka meaʻai, a me ka petrol. E like me ʻoe, maopopo iaʻu, makemake 
wale au i ka mea maikaʻi loa no koʻu ʻohana. Ua loaʻa iaʻu nā manaʻo weliweli i ka wā ma mua i 
koʻu wā e hakakā nei i ke kālā a hopohopo no ka wā e hiki mai ana. Makemake au e alakaʻi i ko 
mākou kaiāulu i kahi ola maikaʻi ma ke ʻano he kauā.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
AGUIRRE, John W. (Johnny)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
John W. Aguirre 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 47
johnnydist47.com
votejohnny47@gmail.com
(808) 754-2197
 ʻEwalu makahiki aku nei, ua koho ʻia au e pani no ka ʻĀkau a me Koʻolauloa me ʻelua 
mau pahuhopu paʻa loa – hoʻoponopono i ka ʻauwai ma Kahuku High, a loaʻa i ke ala kaʻawale 
ma Laniakea. Ua hoʻopau mākou i kā mākou papahana hoʻoheheʻe wai i ka makahiki 2020, a e 
hoʻomaka ke kūkulu ʻia ʻana o ke kaʻe o Laniakea i kēia kauwela. ʻAʻole hiki iaʻu ke hoʻomaikaʻi 
aku iā ʻoukou a pau no ko ʻoukou kākoʻo ʻana i nā makahiki, a e like me nā manawa a pau inā he 
pilikia kāu e ʻoluʻolu e kelepona mai iaʻu, e hoʻi koke wau iā ʻoe i ka wā hiki. Mahalo nui loa, Sean
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
QUINLAN, Sean
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Sean A. Quinlan 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 47
voteseanquinlan.com
seanquinlan82@gmail.com
(808) 388-2823
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō57Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 48
 Aloha koʻu inoa ʻo Asheemo Nefertiti Daily. He moho au he 21 makahiki no ka 
Lunamakaainana Apana 48. He lālā au o ka Pāʻina ʻAoʻao ʻŌmaʻomaʻo a puka i ke kula kiʻekiʻe ʻo 
Castle. Aloha au i nā manaʻo i loko o ko mākou kaiāulu, a ʻo kaʻu pahuhopu ka hoʻoikaika a hiki i 
ka poʻe ʻōpio ke hana i nā hana kūpono i ka ʻike ʻana i ka wā e hiki mai ana a mākou e ʻike nei no 
Hawaiʻi. Aloha ʻĀina—e hoʻihoʻi kākou i ka ʻāina.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DAILY, Asheemo N. (Koda)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Asheemo Nefertiti Daily 
ʻAoʻao ʻŌmaʻomaʻo
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 48
www.thedailybred.com
koda@wisdomcircles.com
(808) 349-9923
 Aloha! ʻO Lisa Kitagawa koʻu inoa a ua pomaikaʻi au i ka lawelawe ma ka hale 
ʻahaʻōlelo ma ke Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 48 mai ka makahiki 2018. Ua hānau ʻia a ua 
ulu ʻia nō au ma Kāneʻohe a ua hele i ke Kula Kumu Mua ʻo Ben Parker, ke Kula Mawaenas Aliʻi, a 
me ke Kula Kiʻekiʻe ʻo Castle. Ua hele au i ke Kulanui o Hawaiʻi ma Mānoa a loaʻa iaʻu ka Laepua, 
BA ma nā Kumuwaiwai ʻOhana a me Laeoʻo MA ma ka Mālama Hoʻonaʻauao Mānaleo Kiʻekiʻe. 
ʻO wau kēia i kūpono i ke kūlana o ka Hope Luna Hoʻomalu ma ke Kōmike Kuʻikahi o ka Waiwai. 
I ka 6 mau makahiki i hala, ua loaʻa iaʻu ke kōkua i ko mākou ʻāpana ma ka hoʻōla ʻana a me ka 
hoʻopau ʻana i nā kānāwai e kōkua ai i nā kula o ko mākou kaiāulu, e mālama ana i ko mākou mau 
kumu ola, e like me Kāneʻohe Bay a me ko mākou mau wai kūpilikiʻi ʻo Koʻolau, a me ka hoʻokō 
ʻana aku o ka uku $240 miliona ʻōmika a me ka uku hana hoʻolālā hoʻouka no koʻu mau kaiāulu. 
Ua nānā au hoʻi i nā pilikia o ka ʻāina, e like me ka hoʻonui ʻana o ka poʻe kūʻai ʻole, ka manaʻo 
no nā poepoe, a me ka loli nui o ka pilina pāpaʻi o ka ahi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KITAGAWA, Lisa C.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Lisa C. Kitagawa-Akagi 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 48
www.lisakitagawa.com
vote.kitagawa@gmail.com
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
58Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 49
 Ua lawelawe ka Lunamakaainana Scot Matayoshi i ka Apana 49 no eono makahiki. 
Aia ʻo ia ma ke Kahu Hānai o ka Pānela Hana a me Nā Hana Hoʻoponopono Aupuni, kahi e hana 
ai ʻo ia e hoʻokō i nā hana kūʻē hana o ke aupuni no ka hoʻoponopono ʻana i nā lawelawe aupuni 
i paʻa, e hoʻokumu i nā kānāwai hana no ka hoʻololi i ka pono o ka lehulehu a me ka hana me 
ka pono o ka lehulehu, a e hoʻonui i ka lako o ka aupuni. ʻO Rep. Mai ka hoʻomaka ʻana mai o 
kona kālā hana ma kēia oihana, ua hoʻokumu ʻia e Matayoshi i nā waihona pākēkē i luna o $125 
miliona no nā poʻe, ʻo ia hoʻi, e kōkua i nā kūlana ʻike ʻia o kākou. Ua hoʻonohonoho ʻo ia i nā 
keʻena keʻokeʻo ma waena o ka maʻi, nā hoʻihoʻi hoʻomanaʻo kaua, nā hana e-waste recycling, 
hoʻomaʻemaʻe kahawai, a me nā lako kula ma Castle Complex. I ka wā maʻi, ʻO Rep. Ua hoʻokumu 
ʻo Matayoshi i ka papahana Farm to Car ma Windward Mall, kahi e hiki ai i ka poʻe mahiʻai ke 
kūʻai pono aku i nā pahu meaʻai i nā kamaʻāina. Ua hāʻawi pū ʻo ia i ke kānāwai ʻo Farm to State, 
e koi ana i ka mokuʻāina e kūʻai i ka hapa nui o kāna huahana mai nā mea hoʻolako kūloko. Inā 
koho hou ʻia ʻO Rep. E hoʻomau ʻo Matayoshi i ke kākoʻo no ko mākou apana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
MATAYOSHI, Scot
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Scot P. Matayoshi 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 49
scot@scotmatayoshi.com
 Ma hope o koʻu ʻike maka ʻana i ke kau kānāwai, ua makemake au e lilo i kekahi o nā 
leo e kōkua i ke ʻano o ka Hawaiʻi o kēia wā a me ka wā e hiki mai ana a kākou e makemake ai e 
ʻike. ʻOiai ʻaʻohe oʻu ʻike politika ʻoiaʻiʻo, loaʻa iaʻu kahi mea aʻu i manaʻo ai he mea koʻikoʻi like 
ia: he aloha hohonu i ke kaiāulu a he makemake e hoʻoikaika i ka maikaʻi o ko mākou home a me 
ko mākou poʻe. Ma o kaʻu ʻike ma ka pāpaho, ua hiki iaʻu ke ʻakaʻaka i ka poʻe o Hawaiʻi. Ke noi 
nei au i kēia manawa e hāʻawi mai iaʻu i manawa e haʻaheo ai ka poʻe. Mahalo no kou koho! Iosia 
“BrahKruz” Ubando
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
UBANDO, Josiah (BrahKruz)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Josiah  Ubando 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 49
www.brahkruz.com
josiah.nku@gmail.com
(808) 277-4337
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō59Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 50
 ʻO wau ʻo Tim Connelly, he Pūkaua (Hoʻopau) a kekahi e holo nei au e kūkākūkā no ka 
hoʻoponopono i ka Moku 50 ma ka Hale o nā Lunamakaʻāinana o Hawaiʻi no ka mea, ke ʻike nei 
au ʻo Kailua a me Hawaiʻi e pono ai iā ia he alakaʻi e hoʻoulu a hoʻomakaʻu i nā hoʻoponopono 
nui ma Hawaiʻi. Ua alakaʻi au i nā koa ʻAmelika ma ke kaua ma ʻIlaka a me ʻApekanikana, a ua 
kālele ʻo au ma hope o ke ahulau honua. Ua hoʻokō wau i ka mālama ʻana i nā kānaka o kākou, 
ka hoʻopau i ka hewa a me ka nele kūlanakauhale, ka hoʻoulu ʻana i ko kākou pono, ka ao i kā 
kākou poʻe keiki, ka hoʻonui i ko kākou ʻāina kūʻokoʻa, a me ka hoʻoikaika hou i ko kākou hui 
kauā i kauwahi. He makua hānai haʻakei nō au o nā kaikamāhine ʻelua maikaʻi a ua hoʻokaʻa nei 
au i ka hana mālama keiki no nā makahiki ʻekolu. ʻO KA UKU O KA NOHO HE NUI MA HAWAIʻI! Ua 
pono ke hoʻēʻe ʻia no ka kōkua i ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou ʻohana a me ko mākou mau keiki i 
ka hoʻokele ʻana i loko. E kōkua mau aku au i nā mākaʻi, nā kānaka e kau i ka mua, a me ke Koa 
Kiaʻi Lāhui Hawaiʻi. ʻO wau ke alakaʻi kiaʻi kūikawā kā kākou e pono ai no ka Moku 50.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
CONNELLY, Timothy D.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Timothy D. Connelly 
ʻAoʻao Repubalika
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 50
tim@connellyforkailua.com
(407) 487-6177
 ʻO Mike Lee koʻu inoa a noho au ma Kālaheo Hillside me kaʻu kāne a me nā keiki 
2 ʻelua. Ua hānau ʻia koʻu ʻohana a hānai ʻia ma Kailua, kahi a mākou e noho nei. I mea e 
ola maikaʻi ai ka noho ʻana ma ka ʻaoʻao makani, ke holo nei au i ka ʻahaʻōlelo mokuʻāina e 
lawelawe iā ʻoe. E hana wau i kēia ma ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i kā mākou ʻōnaehana hoʻonaʻauao, 
hoʻoikaika i ka hewa, hōʻemi i nā ʻauhau kaumaha, a me ka mālama ʻana i kā mākou waiwai 
kūlohelohe. Hana wau i kahi ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, aʻo, a alakaʻi i ke kaiāulu. Nui koʻu akamai e hana pū 
me ke aupuni kūloko, nā kula, nā ʻoihana, a me nā waiwai ʻole e holomua i nā hana kaiāulu. Ua 
ʻike au i nā paio i kēlā me kēia lā a ko mākou kaiāulu e kū nei mai koʻu noho ʻana ma ʻaneʻi. ʻO 
kaʻu pahuhopu nui, ʻo ia ka mālama ʻana i nā pilikia a nā hoalauna e like me ʻoe ma Kailua a 
me Kāneʻohe e hopohopo nei. Ke noi aku nei au me ka mahalo i kou kokua ma keia koho balota. 
E hooikaika kakou e malama i ko kakou noho ana ma ka aoao makani no na hanauna e hiki mai 
ana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
LEE, Mike
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Michael G.K. Lee 
ʻAoʻao Demokalaka
Lunamakaʻāinana Mokuʻāina, Moku 50
mikeleeforhawaii.com
mikeleeforhawaii@gmail.com
(808) 388-6222
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
60Kahu Waiwai Mokupuni ʻo Molokaʻi o ke Keʻena Kuleana Hawaiʻi ʻŌiwi
 ʻO wau ʻo Luana Alapa e kūpaʻa nei i ka hoʻokoho hou ʻana i ka noho Kahu Waiwai 
Mokupuni ʻo Molokaʻi-Lānaʻi no ke Keʻena Kuleana Hawaiʻi ʻŌiwi. Ma ke kūpaʻa ʻana ma koʻu 
kūlana he wahine Hawaiʻi kupa o ka ʻāina, ua hoʻolako ʻia au i ka hana ma nā ʻaoʻao e hōʻoia aku 
ana i nā poʻe Hawaiʻi e hoʻoponopono ana i loko o nā ʻaoʻao ʻelua: Mai ka hoʻonaʻauao, noho 
hale, olakino pono, a me ka paipai o ka paʻa waiwai. Ua hoʻokō au i ka hoʻokō ʻana i kēia mau 
hoʻohui. ʻO kekahi o koʻu mau manawa ʻoihana ma ka hana ma kekahi mau hui Hawaiʻi e hana 
pū me nā hana hou e kōkua ana i nā ʻano hale noho o ka ʻoihana, ka hoʻomohala i ka lāhui ola 
ma nā wahi kūʻai hao, ka hāʻawi ʻana i nā lawelawe ola maʻi manaʻo, a me ka hoʻonui ʻana i nā 
pono no nā ʻāina Molokai kula, a me ka hoʻonui ʻana i nā pānaʻi hoʻonaʻauao no ka poʻe ʻoihana 
ma ka mākou lāhui. Ma ka hana i ka hale kulanui ma Hoʻolehua, ua ʻike au i kēia mau pilikia no ka 
mea, ke hoʻokumu nei au i ka hana iho nō. Me ko kākou kōkua, hiki ke hoʻomālamalama a hoʻoulu 
i ka lāhui maikaʻi no ka pono o kākou lāhui. I ka lōkahi o ka lāhui Hawaiʻi, nui ke aloha o Hawaiʻi a 
pau. ʻO ka lawelawe i nā mea ʻē aʻe, he uku nui loa kēia e hāʻawi aku ai.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ALAPA, Luana
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Sandra Luana Alapa 
Kahu Waiwai Mokupuni ʻo Molokaʻi
Alapa4oha.com
luanaalapa@gmail.com
(808) 782-1119
 ʻO Kunani Nihipali koʻu inoa, he mamo no Kalawao a he mea hoʻokahu ʻia no ka ʻĀina 
Hoʻokūʻonoʻono Hoʻolehua, Molokaʻi ʻo wau. I kēia manawa, ke noho nei kākou i loko o kekahi 
kaiāulu i hoʻokaʻawale nui ʻia. Hāʻawi ke Kānāwai Kala o ka makahiki 1993, he 31 makahiki i hala 
aku nei, iā mākou nā kānaka maoli i ke ala no ka ho‘oponopono, akā, no mākou ʻo nā kānaka maoli 
iho nei, ua ʻike mākou i ke kala ‘ole, i kau mai ka manaʻo o ka luna ʻāpono ʻia ma luna o mākou, 
me ka loaʻa ʻana o ka hoʻomalu ʻia, ka hoʻopaʻi ʻia, a me ka hoʻopio ʻia ma ke ʻano polikika, 
waiwai, pilikanaka, a me e pili ana i ka moʻomeheu Hawaiʻi. Ua ʻoi ma mua ke kala o ka ʻike ʻana 
o ka lāhui, a pono e hoʻihoʻi i ka pono iā nā kānaka maoli no ka mea ua hō‘ike ʻia he mea pōʻino 
loa kēia mau hoʻopi‘i mōʻaukala. Ua kaʻana like mākou me ka maluhia me ka poʻe o Hawaiʻi, a 
me ka honua holoʻokoʻa, mai ka wā i hehi mua ai nā haole ma kahakai mai o ko mākou lāhui. ʻO 
ka hoʻoponopono nō hoʻi, ʻaʻole ka ʻikepili ka hālāwai ʻana i nā mea kūʻē, ʻo ia ka ʻaoʻao e lawe 
pono ana i nā hōʻike kūlohelohe mai nā hana pono ʻole kahiko. He mea nui ka ʻike hoʻomaopopo 
ʻana e pili ana i ka moʻomeheu i ke kanaka, no ka mea, ʻaʻole e loaʻa ka ʻaoʻao hope o ka hōʻike i 
ka hoʻōla i ka manaʻo pono i loko o ka lokahi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
NIHIPALI, R. Kunani
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Ronald Kunani Nihipali Sr.
Kahu Waiwai Mokupuni ʻo Molokaʻi
huliau2014@gmail.com
(808) 349-6407
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō61Puuku Hawaiian Affairs Office, Kauai Resident
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
AHUNA, Dan
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Daniel C. Ahuna III
Kahu Waiwai Mokupuni ʻo Kauaʻi
ahunadan@gmail.com
(808) 631-1125
 I ka manawa hea e lilo ai ʻo Hawaiʻi i mea ʻē aʻe? oiai na Hawaii e kaawale ana? I kēia 
manawa, ʻoi aku ma mua o 65 pakeneka o ka poʻe Hawaiʻi e noho ana ma waho o Hawaiʻi. He 
kūlana weliweli. Ke pau nei ka manawa o ka mea maʻi. Pono mākou e hoʻopau i ke koko. I mea e 
hoʻohana ai i kā mākou mau kumuwaiwai e hoʻopiha i nā āpau a mālama i ko mākou mau ʻohana 
i paʻa a ma ka home, pono mākou e hoʻololi a hana wikiwiki a me ka noʻonoʻo. Ua noho au 
maanei, ma ko kakou Kauai maikai, e noho ana a e lawelawe ana no na makahiki he kanakolu. Ua 
hoʻoikaika nui au e kākoʻo i ko mākou ʻohana. ʻO ka mea e hoʻoikaika iaʻu ʻo koʻu makemake i nā 
keiki a me kā lākou ʻohana. Aia nō mākou i ka pōʻino o ka luku hoʻokele waiwai like i kūkākūkā ʻia 
i nā makahiki he nui aku nei. ʻO kaʻu pahuhopu ka hoʻolohe, hoʻoholo i kāu mau pono, ʻimi i nā 
kumuwaiwai, hana i kahi hoʻolālā, a laila hoʻokō. Inā koho ʻia, e ʻimi au i nā ʻeha o ka mea maʻi, 
e hoʻāʻo iā lākou, a e hoʻoikaika. Eia wau. E ʻae mai iaʻu e lilo i poʻokela a kākoʻo. koho balota 
lindsey4kauai Mahalo iā ʻoe.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
LINDSEY, Laura A.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Laura A. Lindsey 
Kahu Waiwai Mokupuni ʻo Kauaʻi
lauralindseykauai@gmail.com
(808) 639-3038
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
62Kahu Waiwai Nui o ke Keʻena Kuleana Hawaiʻi ʻŌiwi
 Ma muli oka hoʻomaopopo ʻana i ke kuleana pili i ka ʻaiʻē a kahi kahu, makemake 
wau e hāʻawi i nā pahuhopu a ke aupuni pekelala i hoʻonohonoho ai ma ka 1959 Pub. no keia 
hilinai lehulehu. L. Helu 8603, Sec. 5. Stat. 4,5(1959) o ka Congressional Record i hoʻokaʻawale i 
203,500 mau ʻeka i PONO i ka poʻe ʻōiwi, a ʻōlelo ʻia: “O kekahi o na kumu elima e hooko ia ai ka 
hilinai o ka lehulehu, oia no ka “POMAIKAI O KE KANAWAI O NA KANAKA HAWAII (NH).” Ua ʻike ka 
ʻaha Kumukānāwai o ka makahiki 1978 ʻaʻohe ʻāina hānau ʻē aʻe o NH, a no laila pono lākou i ka 
palekana no ko lākou ola ʻana (ʻōlelo, moʻomeheu, kuleana ʻākoakoa, etc.) Ua hoʻolimalima ka 
mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi i ka hapa nui o kēia mau ʻāina a ʻaʻole hāʻawi i ka 20% o kāna. Loaʻa ka 
loaʻa kālā no ka “OI KA POʻE O NA KANAWAI O HAWAII” . ʻŌlelo mai ka Civil Beat: “ʻO ka hapalua o 
ka poʻe home ʻole o Oahu i hōʻike iā lākou iho ʻo NH.” . ʻOi aku ma mua o 60% o NH i haʻalele i ko 
lākou ʻāina hānau:(
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
AHU ISA, Lei
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Leinaala S.P. Ahu Isa 
Kahu Waiwai Nui
lahuisa@gmail.com
(808) 383-5201
 Keli’i Akina, Ph.D. He Kahu Waiwai OHA i kēia manawa a he Pelekikena/CEO o ka 
Grassroot Institute.  Ma ke ʻano he ʻīlio kiaʻi a me ka hoʻoponopono, ua hoʻolaʻa ʻo ia iā ia iho i 
ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ka pono i loko o ka OHA a me ke kūʻē ʻana i ka hoʻopunipuni, ka ʻōpala a me 
ka hana ʻino. Ua kūleʻa ʻo Trustee Akina i ka loaʻa ʻana o kahi loiloi forensic kūʻokoʻa o OHA a no 
ka hoʻokō ʻana i nā hoʻoponopono koʻikoʻi. ʻO ka pahuhopu a Akina no ke kālā hoʻopaʻa a ka 
OHA, ʻo ia ke kiaʻi a hoʻonui i ke kālā hoʻopaʻa a hoʻohana iā ia no ka hoʻokō ʻana i nā pono o nā 
Hawaiʻi no ka hale, nā hana, ka hoʻonaʻauao, a me ka mālama ola.   He leo kūʻokoʻa ʻo Trustee 
Akina e ʻōlelo nei no ka poʻe pōmaikaʻi o OHA.  Hana pū ʻo ia me nā kahu mālama ʻē aʻe no ka 
hoʻokō ʻana i nā pono o ka poʻe Hawaiʻi a manaʻoʻiʻo hiki i ka OHA ke lilo i mea ikaika no ka poʻe 
a pau, ʻo ka poʻe Hawaiʻi a me ka poʻe ʻole. Ua lawelawe ʻo Trustee Akina ma nā papa a me nā 
hui he nui. He puka ʻo ia no nā Kula ʻo Kamehameha, Northwestern University a me ke Kulanui o 
Hawaiʻi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
AKINA, Keli’i
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
William Keli’i Akina 
Kahu Waiwai Nui
www.keliiakina.com
kelii@keliiakina.com
(808) 256-9792
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō63Meia o ke Kalena Hawaiʻi
 Aloha ʻĀina Hawaiʻi, Ma ka lā 1 o Iulai, 2023, ua haʻalele au i koʻu kūlana ma ke ʻano 
he Hope Peresidena o ka Hale Hōʻikeʻike Ola Kaiāulu o Hawaiʻi Mokupuni no ka holo ʻana i Meia 
no ke Kalana ʻo Hawaiʻi. Ua ho’ohui au me nā hoa no ka ‘imi ‘ana i nā lālani o ka ‘āina a me ke 
kāko’o ‘ana a puni ka mokupuni. ʻO kaʻu kahua LIVE, WORK, PLAY ʻekolu ʻāpana e kau ʻia ma luna 
o nā pono o ko mākou poʻe kamaʻāina. Ua lawelawe ‘ia au i nā kūpono nui, e like me ka ‘ike ‘ole 
o ka luna ho’okō, a me nā makahiki he 30 a ‘oi o ka lawelawe maika’i no ka Mokupuni o Hawai’i. 
-Ua hana ma 3 mau pae o ke Aupuni. (Kalana, Moku’āina, Federal) a me Kaiāulu. -Ka ʻike i ke ola 
kino, ke olakino noʻonoʻo, ka hoʻohui, ka makua, a me ka hoʻoponopono pilikia. E nānā i kaʻu 
mau mea nui ma kaʻu pūnaewele ma kimoformayor.com a me kaʻu moʻokāki Facebook/IG @
drkimoalameda. Pono mākou e hoʻololi a pono mākou e hoʻololi i kēia manawa! E mālama kākou 
iā Hawaiʻi a e mālama i ke aloha! Mahalo
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ALAMEDA, C. Kimo
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Christian Kimo Alameda 
Meia
kimoformayor.com
connect@kimoformayor.com
(808) 345-9280
 Ua hoʻomaikaʻi nui ʻia au i ka lawelawe ma koʻu ʻoihana kaukauwai he ko ʻoukou 
meia. Mai ka 2020 mai, ua hana mākou e hoʻoulu i ka pae ʻoihana no ka mokupuni Hawaiʻi kahi 
e ulu hou ai nā hanauna e hiki aku ai. Ma ka mua o ko mākou noho ʻana mua, ua hoʻomākaukau 
mākou i nā hale no nā ʻohana kamaʻāina, ua hoʻonui mākou i nā kūkulu hoʻoponopono kumu, a 
ua hoʻomaikaʻi mākou i nā ʻoihana mea kanu e hoʻoikaika ai i ka nohona maikaʻi no nā kānaka a 
pau. Ua hoʻololi loa ʻia ko mākou mau kūkulu hale hoʻolimalima i nā hale ʻoihana ma lalo o ka uila 
i 8,200 hale a ua hoʻoponopono ʻia mākou i ko mākou hana ʻana ma ka hoʻomaka kūkulu hoʻolilo 
ʻana mai ka ʻoihana hoʻouka papa o ka lāhui i ka ʻoi o ka mokuʻāina. I ka mahina ʻo Kekemapa, 
e hoʻūnukā ana mākou i nā alanui ma keʻena ʻāina ma ke kūlana he 100 mile a e hoʻomaka ana 
i ka hanana kūikawā nui loa ma ka moʻomeheu kūʻokoʻa o ka mokupuni ma ka hoʻololi ʻana i ka 
Haukūkū Wai Ola o Hilo. Ua hāpai eha manawa mākou i ke kālā hoʻomālama mālama māla ʻoi ma 
ke kālaimanaʻo e hoʻonui i ka komo ʻana i nā wahi maikaʻi a me ka maikaʻi no nā kānaka a pau. 
Me kō kākou kōkua, e hoʻomau ana mākou i ka hoʻolako ʻana i nā kānaka a me nā wahi e hōʻike 
ai i ka ʻoihana o ko mākou ʻāina home maoli. Mahalo iā ʻoukou no ko ʻoukou maliu ʻana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ROTH, Mitch
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Mitchell D. Roth 
Meia
mitchroth.org
mitchroth.chair@gmail.com
(808) 989-0385
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
64Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Hawaiʻi, Moku 5
 Noho ʻo Matt Kanealii-Kleinfelder ma Olaʻa a ʻo ia ka ʻaha kūkā no ka Moku 5 i kēia 
manawa. Ma waho aʻe o ka lilo ʻana i mea ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, he makua kāne ʻo ia o ʻekolu mau keiki 
a loaʻa iā ia ka ʻike ma ka lawelawe mea kūʻai aku a me nā kālepa. Kākoʻo mau ʻo ia i ka mahiʻai, 
ka hana noʻeau, a me ka hoʻonaʻauao. Ua hoʻihoʻi ʻo Matt i ke Alanui ʻo Stainback, hana i nā 
kānāwai e ʻae ana i ka mālama ʻana i nā alanui pilikino, hoʻonui i nā kūlana mākaʻi ma Puna ma 
ka pane ʻana i nā hoʻopiʻi kaiāulu, a hāʻawi i ka huki manuahi ʻana i nā kaʻa i haʻalele ʻia mai ka 
ʻāina pilikino. Ua ho’omaka ‘o ia i ka Papa Hoʻolālā Nui ʻo Shipman Park, ka New Keaʻau Police 
and Fire Station, New Keaʻau Community Center, a me New Kea’au Mass Transit Hub Ua ʻike ʻo ia i 
ke koʻikoʻi o ka hoʻonohonoho ʻana i nā hana hoʻoilina no kā mākou mau hanauna e hiki mai ana, 
ʻoi aku ka nui o ka ulu wikiwiki ʻana o ko mākou ʻāina. ʻO ka moho wale nō i hoʻokō pono i nā 
hana e hoʻomaikaʻi ai i ko mākou ola ʻana, ʻo Matt, he kanaka haʻahaʻa a pololei! Mahalo & VOTE 
MAT T!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KANEALI’I-KLEINFELDER, Matt
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Matthew A. Kanealii-Kleinfelder 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā, Moku 5
punamatters@gmail.com
(808) 756-3933
 Aloha! ʻO Ikaika Rodenhurst koʻu inoa a ke holo nei au i lālā o ka ʻaha kūkā Kalana ʻo 
Hawaiʻi no ka Apana 5, Puna Mauka. Eia wau e lawe mai i ka manaʻolana i Puna i ka manawa e 
pono ai ke alakaʻi e hōʻike a hakakā no Puna maikaʻi. He makua kāne au o ʻekolu, he kaʻi pōpeku, 
a he ʻenekinia kīwila laikini. ʻO kaʻu mau kumu waiwai he kūpaʻa, kūpaʻa, a me ke aloha. ʻO kaʻu 
pahuhopu nui, ʻo ia ka hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i nā ʻōnaehana, hoʻoikaika i ke kūpaʻa kaiāulu, a hoʻonui 
i ka palekana lehulehu. He mea pāʻani au i makemake a hiki ke hana pū me kekahi a me nā mea 
a pau e hoʻokō i nā koi o ko mākou kaiāulu. ʻO kēlā me kēia ʻaha kūkā, mayora, luna kānāwai, luna 
hoʻomalu, mea nona ka hui, a kamaʻāina paha. Aia mākou a pau i ka moku hoʻokahi a pono e 
hana like e hoʻoikaika i ko kākou mokupuni Hawaiʻi i mua, e hāʻawi ana i nā manawa a me ka wā 
e hiki mai ana no kā mākou mau keiki a me nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i 
kāu koho
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
RODENHURST, Ikaika
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Steven Ikaika Rodenhurst 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā, Moku 5
ikaikarodenhurst.com
ikaika.rodenhurst@gmail.com
(808) 203-7450
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō65Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Hawaiʻi, Moku 9
 ʻAʻole hiki iā mākou ke manaʻo e hāʻawi kālā ka hoʻokele waiwai i nā lawelawe 
aupuni a i ʻole e uku i ka poʻe e lawa ai ka pono. E kākoʻo au i nā papahana a me nā 
hoʻoponopono e kōkua i ka poʻe mahiʻai, nā kahu hānai, a me nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi e holomua. E 
hōʻole au i nā manaʻo e hoʻonui ai i ke kaumaha o kēia poʻe. He lālā ʻo Evans he 16 makahiki o 
ka Hale Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi, kahi i paʻa ai ʻo ia i nā kūlana luna kōmike a ʻo ia ke alakaʻi o ka 
papahele Nui. Lawe ʻo ia i ka ʻike hoʻolālā a me ka hoʻomohala kulekele e kōkua i ka hana ʻana 
i nā hopena kūpono a hoʻololi i nā mea nui e like me ka mea e pono ai. Ua loaʻa iā Evans kahi 
kēkelē laepua ma ka ʻoihana mai ke Kulanui ʻo Evergreen State. Ua noho ʻo Evans ma Kohala 
Hema no 26 makahiki. Hānau ʻia a hānai ʻia i kahi kaiāulu mahiʻai ma Illinois. He puka kula ʻo ia 
no ka hanauna mua. Mahalo no kou noonoo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
EVANS, Cindy
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Cynthia F.W. Evans 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā, Moku 9
cindyevanscountycouncil.com
cynthiaevans@aol.com
(808) 345-5810
 Aloha kākou! ʻO James Hustace koʻu inoa a ke ʻimi nei au i kou kākoʻo e kū i nā 
kaiāulu o Kohala ʻĀkau a me Kohala Hema. ʻO kaʻu pahuhopu, ʻo ia ka hana ʻana me nā hoa 
kaiāulu i ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i nā lawelawe Kalana, ke aʻo mai nā kūpuna mai, ka hoʻolohe ʻana 
i nā mea koho, a me ka hoʻomohala ʻana i nā pilina ikaika me nā hui kaiaulu. He aloha koʻu i ka 
Hawaiʻi. Ua ulu au ma Waimea a ua ʻimi au i nā ala e kōkua ai i koʻu kaiāulu ma o nā kuleana 
alakaʻi me ka Hui Kaiāulu o Waimea, Kōmike Palekana Kaʻa o Kohala Hema, Hui Ho’oponopono 
Wahi o ka Mokuouni, a me Waimea Trails & Greenways. Ke kū nei ko mākou kaiaulu i nā pilikia, a 
pono mākou e hana pū me ko mākou Kalana, Moku’āina, a me nā hoa Pekelala, e ʻimi ana i nā mea 
e pale ai i ko mākou poʻe kamaʻāina, e hoʻoikaika i kā mākou ʻoihana, a mālama i ka ʻāina. E hana 
pū kākou a hāʻawi iā Kohala ʻĀkau a me Hema me ka hōʻike ʻana i paʻa i ke kaiāulu. Mahalo no 
kou noonoo. E aʻo hou ma hustaceforcouncil.com. Imua!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HUSTACE, James E.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
James E. Hustace 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā, Moku 9
hustaceforcouncil.com
hustaceforcouncil@gmail.com
(808) 464-2570
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō66Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo East Maui
 I kaʻu mau kau mua ʻekolu ma ke keʻena, ua hoʻoikaika au e hoʻoikaika i ke Kalana 
ʻo Maui a ʻoi aku ka maikaʻi a e hoʻomāhua i ka mālama o ko mākou aupuni i ke kaiapuni a me 
ka hoʻokele waiwai. I ke koho pāloka 2020 a me 2022, ua hoʻokomo au i nā hoʻololi hoʻohui, i ʻae 
ʻia e ka poʻe koho pāloka, i hoʻokumu i ke Keʻena ʻOihana kalana mua a me ka hoʻokumu ʻana 
i ka Mana Wai o Maui Hikina e hāʻawi i ka wai hou no nā kamaʻāina a me nā mahiʻai a me ka 
hoʻokele maikaʻi ʻana i nā kumuwaiwai wai kūloko. Ua kākau au i ke kānāwai hoʻomalu kaiapuni 
ʻoi loa o ke kalana ma ka ʻāina e pāpā ana i ka hoʻohana ʻana i nā lāʻau make haipilikia a me nā 
mea hoʻomomona lepo ma nā ʻāina o ke kalana e pale ana i ke olakino o nā limahana kalana a 
me ko mākou kaiapuni ʻoiai e hoʻemi ana i ka ʻike ʻana o ke kalana i ka hoʻopiʻi kumukūʻai. Ma 
ka hana ʻana i ke kūlana archeologist kalana mua, ua pale au i nā kumuwaiwai moʻomeheu ʻoiai 
e hoʻopololei ana i nā papahana kalana ma o ka wikiwiki ʻana i ke kaʻina hana apono a me ka 
hoʻemi ʻana i nā lilo o ke kalana i nā mea kūkākūkā. E hoʻomau wau i ka hana e hoʻihoʻi mai i ka 
hoʻokele waiwai i ko mākou ola ʻana a hoʻōla.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SINENCI, Shane
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Shane Michael Sinenci 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Hikina Maui)
votesinenci.com
ssinenci@yahoo.com
(808) 264-8919
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō67
Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo West Maui
 ʻO ka manawa kēia e hōʻike ai i alakaʻi! He leo maoli wau no ka lehulehu no ka mea 
he makua wau a he mea nona ka hui. E hāʻawi wau i nā ʻike hou a me ka noʻonoʻo me ka hōʻike 
ʻana i ka ʻike kālā e hoʻokumu i ko mākou kaiāulu. ʻAʻohe oʻu kūpaʻa i kekahi kanaka a i ʻole hui. 
Ma mua o ka lilo ʻana i mea pale, makemake wau e lilo i alahaka no nā pane. E hoʻihoʻi mākou iā 
Maui i kahi mokuʻāina e noho hauʻoli ai ko mākou ʻohana. ʻO Maui e hiki ai i kā mākou keiki ke 
ʻelemakule. Ua lilo koʻu hale a me koʻu ʻoihana i ke ahi i ka lā 8 ʻAukake. Akā, ʻo ka palekana o 
koʻu ʻohana, ua laki au. Maopopo iaʻu ke ʻano o ka ʻike ʻana i ka manaʻolana ʻole a nalowale koke 
i nā mea a pau āu i hakakā nui ai. Ua hoʻomau au ma hope o ke ahi e kākoʻo i koʻu ʻohana a me 
koʻu koʻokoʻo. Me ka hoʻomanawanui like ʻana, makemake wau e hāʻawi i ka manaʻolana hou iā 
Lahaina a me ko ke Kalana ʻo Maui. VOTE LOLO
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
ACQUINTAS, Lorien (Lolo)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Lorien  Acquintas 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Komohana Maui)
loloacquintas.com
team@voteforlolo.com
(808) 446-0106
 Aloha mai, ʻo Tamara Paltin koʻu inoa, he wahine uʻi a me makuahine o nā keiki 
ʻelua, a ke hoʻokō nei au i ka hana e lawelawe ai iā ʻoukou ma ke kūlana Lālā ʻAha Kūkā, Maui 
Komohana. Ke lawe nei au i kaʻu noho ʻana ʻakolu o kūlana, a ua loaʻa iaʻu nā ʻike a me ka ʻike 
ma nā hanauna me nā manaʻo o ka lawelawe ʻana i kānāwai a me ka nānā i ka ʻoihana waihona 
o ke kalana. A i kēia manawa, ua alaka’i au i ka hoʻololi ʻana i ka hoʻokō o ka Papahana Kaiāulu 
no Maui Komohana i ka hoʻohana ʻia o ke kānāwai, ua lawelawe ʻia nā mālama hale i kekahi mau 
papahana e like me Waikapū Country Town a me Kilohana Makai, a ua kūkākūkā au i ko mākou 
ʻaha ma ka ʻAha Kūkā o ke ʻAha Hoʻokō no Hui ʻOihana o nā Kalana o Hawaiʻi ma ka Pānela 
Kālaiʻāina. ʻO koʻu māhuahua ʻana ma mua ma hope aku, ʻo ia ka kōkua ʻana i ke kalana, a ma ka 
mua, ka hoʻōla a me ka hoʻomākaukau ʻana o Lahaina. Mai ka lā mai i hala aku nei ma hope o nā 
ahi o ka lā 8 o ʻAukake, ua lawe au i ka hoʻokō i nā kānaka o ko mākou mau noho ʻana ma o ka 
kū ʻana o ka hui noho o Napili, ka hāʻawi ʻana aku i nā pāheona “Starlink,” ka hāʻawi ʻana aku i nā 
hōʻike kākau ʻia, a pēlā aku.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
PALTIN, Tamara Akiko Maile
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Tamara A.M. Paltin 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Komohana Maui)
TamaraPaltin.com
tampaltin@gmail.com
(808) 870-0052
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō68Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu
 ʻO ka manawa kēia no ke ALAKAI HOU. He 20 mau makahiki o koʻu ʻike ma ke ʻano he 
loio, me ka lawelawe ʻana ma ke ʻano he Loio Ahaolelo no ka ʻAha Kalana o Maui a me ka Hale o 
nā Lunamakaʻāinana o Hawaiʻi. Maopopo iaʻu i ke kānāwai a pehea e hoʻohana ai ia mea no ke 
kōkua ʻana i ka poʻe e hoʻōla mai i nā makahiki he ʻumi o ka pono ʻole a me nā kulekele hoʻokae 
i hoʻopilikia i nā kamaʻāina paʻakikī. ʻAʻohe poʻe kālaiʻāina CORRUPT. “Nuff Ua hala!” ʻAʻole hiki 
i ke Kalana ʻo Maui ke hoʻomalu i nā kānaka. ʻO ka manawa kēia e hoʻomaikaʻi aku ai i koʻu hoa 
paio no kāna lawelawe ʻana a neʻe aku i ke alakaʻi hou me nā manaʻo hou no ke kōkua ʻana i 
ka poʻe. Pono e hoʻohana ʻia kā mākou mau kumuwaiwai no ke kākoʻo ʻana i nā poʻe kūloko a 
me nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi kūloko, ʻaʻole nā hōkele a me nā mea hoʻomohala. Ke paio nei au no 25% 
Union raise, kūkulu hou i Lahaina no nā kama’āina, hale kūʻai kūpono no kēlā me kēia kanaka, emi 
ka hoʻoponopono ʻana no nā ʻoihana kūloko, mālama kaiapuni koʻikoʻi, pono wahine a me ka 
mālama ola kino, palekana kālā no nā ʻohana, a me ka pono no nā Hawaiʻi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
FORREST, James (Nahele)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
James  Forrest 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Wailuku-Waiheʻe-
Wāʻikāpu)
votenaheleforrest.com
naheleforrest@gmail.com
(808) 758-9096
 ʻO wau ʻo Alice Lee, e holo ana no ke koho hou ʻana i ka noho ʻana ma Wailuku-
Waihee-Waikapu o Maui County Council. Ua hānau ʻia a hānai ʻia au ma Maui, hele au i ke 
kula ʻo St. Anthony a loaʻa iaʻu ke kēkelē laepua ma ka ʻepekema Kalai’aina mai ke Kulanui ʻo 
Chaminade. Noho ka makuahine o koʻu makuakāne ʻo Minnie Gomez Lee ma ke alanui Wells a ʻo 
ka makuahine o koʻu makuahine ʻo Miriam Kanakamaikaʻi ma ke alanui Kahookele, ma Wailuku. 
Ua hana ʻelua koʻu mau mākua ʻo Angelo lāua ʻo Momi Lee ma ka Hui Kelepona Hawaiʻi ma 
Wailuku. Ua paʻa loa koʻu ola ma ʻaneʻi. Ke alo nei mākou i alo nā pilikia koʻikoʻi, e pilI ana i ka 
makemake wikiwiki no nā hale kūʻai, nā hana uku kiʻekiʻe, ka hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i ke olakino a me 
ka palekana, o ka lehulehu, mālama i kā mākou moʻomeheu a me ka nohona, hoʻololi i kā mākou 
hoʻokele waiwai, a me ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i nā ʻoihana a me nā kumuwaiwai e hoʻomākaukau 
maikaʻi ai no nā ahi e hiki mai ana. nā pōʻino. ʻOiai ka nui o nā pilikia i mua o kākou, e lanakila 
kākou a e puka ikaika pū mai ana. Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i kāu koho a kākoʻo. Mahalo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
LEE, Alice L.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Alice L. Lee 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Wailuku-Waiheʻe-
Wāʻikāpu)
aliceleehawaii@gmail.com
(808) 280-0035
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō69Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Kahului
 Natalie A Kama, kapa ʻia pū Tasha Kama, he Moho Kemokalaka no ka ʻAha Kūkū no ka 
Mokuʻāina o Maui, kahi no me kūlana o ka noho ʻana ma ka Moku Kahului me ka noho ʻana P.O. 
Box 2884 Wailuku, HI 96793. Aia ma kōna pūʻuluʻana a kākoʻo ʻāina ma ia kūʻokoʻaʻō ma o kōna 
wīkī: FriendsoftashaKama.org Leka iʻā: tasha@friendsoftashakama.com Kelepona: 808-385-3400 
i ke 20 o Mei, 2024, ua holo aku au i ka papa ma ka 2018 no ka pilikia o ka hale noho ma ko ʻāina 
o mākou. Laila, ua hōʻike ʻia ka Covid ma ka makahiki 2020, a ua hoʻokuʻu ʻia kākou mai ke ao 
a me kekahi i kekahi. Nā lapalapa ahi ma ka uka maoli a ma Maui Komohana maoli i ka wā ma 
hope o kēia maoli i pilikia ʻino a hoʻonui wale ai i ka pilikia o ka hale noho ma ko mākou ʻāina. ʻO 
ka hale noho kahi pilikia nui loa. E mālama mau ana au i ka hana, me ka ʻoluʻolu, e kūpono ana i 
Lahaina me ke kōkua ʻana mai o ka lehulehu. ʻO ko kākou kuleana, e lawe i ka manawa e hoʻōla 
iā kākou iho, e hoʻomaka pū a e ʻimi i nā kālā e pono ai no nā kānaka a pau o Lahaina e hoʻi hou i 
ko lākou mau hale. ʻO kēia kaʻu kuleana e hoʻonui aku i ko kākou waihona noho, e hoʻoikaika i nā 
pōʻaiapili hana a me nā pono ola no ko kākou poʻe, i mea e mālama mau ai i ka manaʻolana ʻana 
o Aloha i ke Kahi i ke Kahi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KAMA, Tasha
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Natalie A. Kama 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Kahului)
Friendsoftashakama.org
kahukama@gmail.com
(808) 463-2963
 Ko mākou leo, ko mākou home, ko mākou Maui. Ke holo nei au e hoʻohou iā Maui 
ma o ka hana hou, ka holomua, a me ka ikaika e hoʻoponopono i nā pilikia koʻikoʻi. He kanaka 
hoʻomaha au, he 22 makahiki Navy me nā waiwai alakaʻi ikaika: kuleana, kūpaʻa, a me ka hiki ke 
alakaʻi i nā pilikia. Mai kuhi hewa - ua pilikia ko Maui kūpaʻa. He kuleana kanaka ka hale, akā, ua 
lilo ka hale i mea kaumaha no ka hapalua o ko mākou mau ʻohana kūloko e hana ana i nā hana 
he nui no ka mālama ʻana i ka hale ma luna o ko lākou poʻo a me ka meaʻai ma ka papaʻaina. I 
kēia manawa, paʻa ka 1/4 o ko mākou mau home i ka poʻe noho ʻole, hilinaʻi ko mākou hoʻokele 
waiwai i ka mākaʻikaʻi, a hakakā nā mahiʻai ʻohana e hoʻokūkū kūʻē i ka meaʻai kūʻai mai. 
Hoʻolālā wau e hoʻoikaika i nā hale kūʻai kūpono, e hoʻoponopono i nā kumu waiwai e hāpai 
ana i ka noho ʻana o ka poʻe ʻole, a e hoʻololi i kā mākou hoʻokele waiwai ma ke kākoʻo ʻana 
i nā ʻoihana liʻiliʻi, mālama olakino a me nā ʻoihana kālepa, mahiʻai hoʻomau, a me ka ʻoihana 
kiʻiʻoniʻoni. E hana pū kākou i Maui kūpaʻa a pōmaikaʻi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KAMEKONA, Carol Lee
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Carol Lee  Kamekona 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Kahului)
carolleekamekona.com
carolleekamekona@outlook.com
(808) 264-9385
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō70Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Maui, Hema Maui
 Aloha. ʻO Tom Cook koʻu inoa, ʻo ia hoʻi ka Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o Maui, Maui Hema i kēia 
manawa, e noi aku nei i kou kōkua ma ke koho hope o kēia makahiki. Ke lawelawe nei wau me ka 
pono ma ka ʻAha Kūkā. Nā ʻike ʻoihana mai ka ʻike ʻāina ʻāina ma hope o nā makahiki 50 i koe 
ma ka noho hana maoli. Ke kākoʻo aku nei au i nā keiki 5 i hoʻoili maila i nā kula kaiāulu ma Maui 
a pau. Ua hoʻonui au i koʻu mau ʻike hana kūkulu a me ka hoʻoholo i nā pilikino ma ka hoa kālai 
kūʻai i hoʻomaka i ka 1989. Ka ʻike i hana maoli aʻu, he limahana a ma hope mai he ʻoihana i mea 
kahi iā ʻoi aku ka nui ma mua o nā limahana 40; ke noi a me ka manaʻo ʻana no ka mauʻa kāpae 
hale; ke uku no ka uku waiwai; ke uku no ka uku no ke kālā pūʻulu; ka hānai i nā keiki a me ka 
mālama i nā kūpuna, ua hāʻawi mai iaʻu i nā ʻike o ka ola e loaʻa ai ka lawelawe ʻana iā ʻoe ma 
ka ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalana. Ke lawelawe nei au me ka naʻauao a me ka ʻike pono ʻana i nā pono o 
nā kānaka i ka pono kūʻokoʻa o ko kākou aupuni kūloko. Ke noi aku nei au me ka haʻahaʻa i kou 
kōkua a me kou koho i ka lā 10 o ʻAukake a me ka lā 5 o Nowemapa. Mahalo. Koho no Tom Cook, 
ʻĀha Kūkā o Kalana Maui.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
COOK, Tom
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Thomas M. Cook 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Hema Maui)
friendsoftomcook.com
cooksynergy@gmail.com
(808) 870-2205
 He paio ʻo Kelly King no ka noho ʻana o ka Apana o Maui Hema ma ka ʻaha kūkā o 
ke Kalana ʻo Maui, kahi i alakaʻi ai ʻo ia i alakaʻi hoʻomau a kamaʻāina ikaika mai kona lilo ʻana 
i makuahine i ka makahiki 1985. Ua noho ʻo ia ma Maui no kahi kokoke i 40 makahiki a he ʻelua 
mau kaikamahine (nā puka lāua ʻelua mai ke kula kiʻekiʻe o Maui a me UH Mānoa), a me ʻelua 
moʻopuna. ʻO kāna ʻōlelo hoʻolaha lōʻihi no nā kaiāulu kūpaʻa a holomua e pili ana i ka hoʻokele 
waiwai pōʻai like ʻole, ka ikehu hou o ka wahi, ka mahiʻai regenerative, ka palekana meaʻai, ka 
hale kūʻai, ke kaulike pilikanaka, ka hoʻomākaukau ʻana i ka pilikia, ka mālama ʻana i ke kaiapuni, 
a me ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i kahakai. Ua noho ʻo King ma nā papa o kekahi mau hui waiwai ʻole ʻo 
ia hoʻi: • Hui Hoʻomalu Ikehu Hou o Hawaiʻi • Papa Hoʻokele o ka Hui Mahiʻai o Maui • Akakū: 
Hōkūleʻa o Maui Mānoanoa • Hui Mālama ʻIke o Maui • Kōmike Nā Kūʻai Kūlohelohe a UH Maui • 
Hui Lōkahi Kai ʻo Maui Nui
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KING, Kelly Takaya
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Kelly T. King 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Hema Maui)
www.kellykingformaui.com
ktkmaui@me.com
(808) 283-1954
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
71Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Makawao-Haiku-Paia
 ʻO ka hele ʻana i nā papa hoʻoholo me ke komo ʻana o ke kaiāulu ʻoi aku ka koʻikoʻi 
ma mua o ko mākou hoʻokele ʻana ma hope o ke ahi o ʻAukake 8. ʻAʻohe i manawa paʻakikī 
hou aʻe e loaʻa ai nā hale kūpono a PILI a puni ke kalana. Pono ko mākou poʻe i ke kōkua. Ma ke 
ʻano he kākoʻo/hoʻonaʻauao no nā pono o ka poʻe hoʻolimalima ma o Maui Housing Hui, ʻike 
wau he pono hou aku. Makemake mākou i nā luna i koho ʻia e ʻoi aku ka nui o ke olakino o ko 
KĀkou COMMUNITY ma mua o nā mea ʻē aʻe. Ke hoʻoholo ʻia nei nā koho e hoʻoneʻe i kā mākou 
hoʻokele waiwai mai ka mākaʻikaʻi, pono mākou e kūkulu i nā ala hou e ola ai no kēlā me kēia 
kanaka a me nā ʻohana. Pono mākou e kākoʻo i ka poʻe mahiʻai i mea e hoʻonui ai i kā nui o nā 
meaʻai a mākou e hana ʻai. Pono nā mea kākou hale kūʻai, nā kumu, nā limahana hōkele, a me 
nā limahana mālama ola i kahi e noho ai. Pono mākou e kūkulu hou ʻoiai e kau mua ana i nā leo 
COMMUNITY. E ʻoluʻolu e koho i nā noho ʻeiwa a pau, a ke hana ʻoe, e nānā i ka pahu BOONE. 
Mahalo!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
BOONE, Nara
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Nara  Boone 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Makawao-Haʻikū-Pāʻia)
votenaraboone.com
votenaraboone@gmail.com
(808) 283-3982
 Aloha, ʻo wau ʻo Nohe Uu-Hodgins. I kēia wā, ka Lālā ʻAha Kūkā no ka Moku ʻo 
Makawao-Haʻikū-Pāʻia. Ua hānau ʻia au a hānai ʻia ma Pāʻia a mai wā kahiko mai ma nēia mau 
wahi ma Maui i noho ai koʻu ʻohana. ʻO wau ka makuahine haʻaheo a ʻehā. Noho kaʻu kāne ʻo 
Koa a me kā mākou ʻohana iā Makawao. Eia hoʻi ʻo wau ko ʻoukou Lālā ʻAha Kūkā, ke manaʻoʻiʻo 
nei au aia ke kaulike ma waena o ka ʻulu akamai, mahalo i ke kaiapuni, a me ka mahalo i ko 
mākou moʻomeheu kūloko. I koʻu wā i kēia manawa, ua hakakā au no ka poʻe limahana a me 
nā hale noho kūpono e hiki ke loaʻa ʻia a kākoʻo no ke kūʻai ʻana i nā wahi ākea ma ka ʻāina o 
Pauwela. Ma hope o ke ahi ʻino o Maui, pono mākou i nā hale i kēia manawa ma mua o ka wā 
ma mua. Manaʻo wau e hoʻolako i kahi e hiki ai i kā mākou mau moʻopuna kuakahi ke hoʻomau 
i ka home. ʻO koʻu hanohano ke kū i koʻu moku a me koʻu home mokupuni, ke manaʻo nei au 
e hoʻomau i ka hana. No ka ‘ike hou aku a i ‘ole e kelepona mai ia’u e ‘olu’olu e kipa i ka’u kaha 
pūnaewele ma votenohe.com.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
UU-HODGINS, Nohe
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Nohelani M.T. Uu-Hodgins 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Makawao-Haʻikū-Pāʻia)
votenohe.com
votenohe@gmail.com
(808) 269-0691
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō72Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Maui, Kua ʻĀina
 Aloha Maui! I mea e hoʻomaikaʻi ai i ko mākou kaiāulu a hoʻokō i nā loli maikaʻi, ke 
holo nei au no ka noho Upcountry ma ka ʻaha Kalana. ʻO kaʻu wahi hoihoi, ʻo ia ke kuleana o ka 
mahiʻai hoʻōla hou i ka loaʻa ʻana o ka mana ʻai. ʻO ke kaiāulu, i koʻu manaʻo, ʻo ke ʻano kālā 
ikaika loa. Ma ka launa pū ʻana me Maui Pono Network, hoʻoponopono mākou i nā pilikia e pili 
ana i nā hale kūʻai kūpono, nā kuleana wai, ka lako nui o nā meaʻai maikaʻi, nā mākaʻikaʻi, a me 
ka hoʻihoʻi ʻana i ka ʻāina. Pono ke kūkulu hou ʻia ʻana o ke kaona ʻo Lahaina a me ka hoʻolako 
ʻana i ko kākou poʻe mahiʻai a me nā ʻohana o Upcountry no nā makahiki e hiki mai ana. Pono 
mākou e hoʻolohe a hana pū me nā mea a pau i hoʻopilikia ʻia e nā ahi ma ʻAukake 8th ma ke 
ʻano akaka a komo pū. ʻO kaʻu kūpaʻa ʻo ia ka hoʻokumu mua ʻana i ka palekana o ke kaiapuni 
ma o ka hoʻokō ʻana i nā hoʻonā kulekele hou. E hele mai i ke kūkulu ʻana i ka wā e hiki mai ana 
no Maui Nui. Mahalo!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
CRUZ, Jocelyn N.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jocelyn N. Cruz 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Kuaʻāina)
jocelyn@knowthyflow.com
(702) 419-0700
 ʻO Yuki Lei Sugimura, he kama’āina o ke Kula, he haumana mua o ke Kula Kiʻekiʻe ʻo 
Baldwin, ke lawelawe nei ʻo ia ma ke ʻano he Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalana ʻo Maui e pani ana i ka 
Upcountry Residency Area. Ke lawelawe nei ʻo Sugimura ma ka ʻaha kūkā mai ka makahiki 2017 , 
ʻo Sugimura ka Hope Luna Nui o ka ʻAha a me ka noho o ke Kōmike Hoʻolālā Waiwai, Waiwai a 
me ka Hoʻokele Waiwai. Ma mua o kona noho ʻana ma ka ʻaha kūkā, ua lawelawe ʻo Sugimura 
ma ke ʻano he Lunamakaʻāinana ʻAlea o Maui no ke Kenekoa ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa ʻo Hirono a me 
ke Kenekoa ʻAmelika Hui Pū ʻIa ʻo Akaka. Ua hoʻohuli aʻe no Yuki Lei i ke kūkulu kaiāulu ai. ʻO 
Sugimura ka mea hoʻoikaika ma hope o nā hanana kaiāulu, me ka Wailuku First Friday a me Maui 
Matsuri. Ke hoʻomau nei ʻo Sugimura i kāna hana kaiāulu ma o kāna kolekole mahina moʻolelo 
hoʻokaʻina Talk Story me Yuki Lei ma ka Upcountry Farmers Market. Me kona mau makahiki o ka 
ʻike, ua kūpaʻa ʻo Yuki Lei e hoʻomau i ka lawelawe ʻana ma nā moku pākahi o Kalana ʻo Maui.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
SUGIMURA, Yuki Lei Kashiwa
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Yuki Lei Kashiwa Sugimura 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Kuaʻāina)
www.yukileisugimura.com
yukilei.sugimura@gmail.com
(808) 870-8047
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō73Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalana ʻo Maui Luna Ahaolelo Lanai
 Aloha, ʻo wau ʻo Gabe Johnson, ʻo ka luna ʻaha kūkā o Maui no ka mokupuni o Lānaʻi. 
Ke noi aku nei au i kou mau kōkua iā mākou i kēia manawa ʻike ʻole ʻia. I loko o koʻu manawa ma 
kēia kūlana noho ʻana, ua kūkulu au i nā kānāwai e hāʻawi ana i ka manaʻo maikaʻi i nā kānaka 
no ka hoʻolako ʻana o nā home kūpono no ka poʻe kamaʻāina loa a e hoʻomākaukau ana i nā 
hale kūʻai kūpono maikaʻi loa. Ua ʻike au e piʻi ana ka uku o ka noho ma ko mākou mokuʻāina, a 
no laila, ua hana oʻoleʻa au i ka loaʻa manuahi i ka hele ʻana me nā kaʻa ʻōhua o ke kalana no ka 
poʻe loaʻa haʻahaʻa, a ua hana au i nā papa i ka hoʻohana ʻana PALS manuahi no ka poeʻ a pau 
i ka hoʻoilo a me kauwela. E mālama aku nei au i nā hui ʻoihana ʻole e kōkua ana i kākou poʻe pā 
wale loa, a ua hana au i nā kānāwai no ke kōkua ʻana i nā mahi ʻai, nā ʻoihana kālaiʻāina, a me ka 
poʻe i kūpono ʻia nā mea e pono ai ka pono. He mea nui maoli koʻu kākoʻo ʻana i ka mālama ʻana 
i ko kākou maiapuni a e hauʻoli ana au e hana mau no koʻu kaiāulu. E kipa iā www.gabe4council.
com no nā mea i kūpono ai. Mahalo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
JOHNSON, Gabe
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Gabriel L. Johnson 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Lānaʻi)
www.gabe4council.com
gabejohnsonwest111@gmail.com
(808) 559-0980
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
74Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalana ʻo Maui Luna Ahaolelo Molokai
 Aloha, Ua hoʻolaʻa au i koʻu kaiāulu ma o ka lawelawe ʻana a me ka hana kūkā, a ua 
kūpaʻa wau i ka hoʻohana ʻana i nā hopena pono e hōʻoia i ke kumukūʻai kūpono o nā hale no 
kā mākou mau kānaka noho. Ke noho nei maua me ka’u wahine o Nani ma ka aoao komohana o 
Molokai, kahi a maua i hanai ai i ka maua kaikamahine hookahi. E like me ka nui o ko mākou mau 
makahiki ʻōpio, ua haʻalele ʻo ia iā Hawaiʻi ma muli o ke kumu kūʻai kiʻekiʻe o ka noho ʻana a 
me nā manawa paʻa hale. ke, manaʻo nei mākou i ʻike i kā mākou moʻopuna e ulu aʻe ma ʻaneʻi 
i kekahi lā. he 18 makahiki oʻu ma ke ʻano he mea nona ʻoihana, a ke hana nei au ma ke ʻano he 
kālaimanaʻo e kālele ana i ka hale hoʻokele waiwai a me nā papahana kauhale. Ke hoʻomau nei 
au i ka aʻo ʻana e ʻike i nā ala hou a kūikawā e hui pū ai no ka maikaʻi a me ka loaʻa ʻana o ka 
hale no kā mākou mau ʻohana kūloko. Ke hoʻopaʻapaʻa nei au no ka noho Molokai ma ka ʻAha 
Kūkā o Maui a ke noi haʻahaʻa aku nei i kou kākoʻo a me kāu balota. Mahalo
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
PELE, John
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
John P. Tau Tau Pele 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Molokaʻi)
johnpele.com
aloha@johnpele.com
(808) 658-5114
 Aloha nui! ‘O wau ‘o Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, he kupa’āina no Moloka’i, a he 
makuahine hoʻokahi o nā keiki ʻelua, nā keiki āna e hoʻokūkū ana i koʻu manawa hoʻomaha no 
ka hoʻoikaika i ka nui o ka nohona ma ko mākou hale, e waiho pono iho nei no ko mākou mau 
hana ma mua o mākou no ka wā e hiki mai ana o ko mākou hana no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. 
He hanohano nō koʻu haʻawina ʻana ma ke Kula Kiʻekiʻe Moloka’i me ka ʻike ma ka ʻāina kānāwai 
a me nā palapala hoʻomaikaʻi ma ka ʻāina a me ka ʻāina Hawaiʻi, a me ke kēkelē laeoʻo ma ka 
hoʻoponopono ʻoihana. Ma hope o kēia ʻekolu noho ʻana ma ka ʻaha kūkā, he hanohano nui koʻu 
ke hana pū ʻana me ʻoukou ma ka hana, i mea e hoʻomau ai i ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i ko mākou ʻāina 
i ka wā e hoʻokūkū ai me ka hiki ke ulu hou aʻe i loko o ka hui ikaika loa. He hanohano nui koʻu ke 
hoʻomau ma ka lawelawe i nā kānaka o Kalana Maui e hoʻāpono ana i ka leo o ko mākou hui me 
nā manawa ʻikepili i kākoʻo ʻia e ka hoʻomanaʻo pono i nā kūkulu i ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou 
ʻāina a me nā ʻaoʻao kānāwai e hoʻōla aku ana i nā pilikia o kēlā me kēia lā o ko mākou mau 
kamaʻāina. Ke kali aku nei au e hoʻomau i ko mākou hoʻonui ʻana i ka hana pū.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, Keani
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Keani  Rawlins-Fernandez 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā (Molokaʻi)
votekeani.com
kokuakeani@gmail.com
(808) 351-0263
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
75Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Kauaʻi
 Aloha oukou a pau. ʻO Abraham F. Apilado Jr. koʻu inoa, a he moho au no ka ʻAha 
Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi. Ma ke ʻano he kāne, makua, a me ka ʻohana, ʻike wau i ka waiwai o kahi kaiāulu 
ikaika no nā hanauna e hiki mai ana. He leo kūikawā koʻu i loko o ko mākou kaiaulu no koʻu 
makemake e kū i ka pono a me koʻu akamai i ka ʻōlelo lehulehu. Kākoʻo au i ka poʻe lawaiʻa 
o kēia wā a me ka wā e hiki mai ana ma ke ʻano he lālā o ka hui aʻoaʻo o ka Western Pacific 
Regional Fisheries Management Council. Hāʻawi wau i ka ʻike e pili ana i kā mākou lawaiʻa i ka 
poʻe mākaʻikaʻi a me nā kamaʻāina, e hōʻike ana i ka hoʻomau a me ka mālama kūpono. ʻO koʻu 
kūpaʻa ʻana i ka mālama ʻana i ko mākou ʻano o ke ola, ua hoʻoikaika ʻia e koʻu aloha ʻoiaʻiʻo iā 
Kauaʻi a me kona poʻe. Ma ke ʻano he keiki kamaʻāina, ua mākaukau wau e hāʻawi i ko mākou 
kaiāulu a e hōʻoia i ka manaʻo o ko mākou poʻe e mahalo a lohe ʻia. Aloha ʻoe Kauaʻi, manaʻolana 
wau e pani iā ʻoe i kēia makahiki koho balota e hiki mai ana. Mahalo
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
APILADO, Abe, Jr. (Aba-G)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Abraham F. Apilado Jr
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
a.apilado74@gmail.com
(808) 720-7560
 Ua hānau ʻia a ua ulu ʻia au ma Kaua’i a hoʻi mai nei mai ka papa noʻonoʻo ʻana 
i ka hana o ke Kauka Pālomi i ka makahiki 2013. No ka nui o nā makahiki 10, ua lawelawe au i 
koʻu ʻohana kaiāulu ma koʻu hoʻohekele kūʻai hapa a ma nā papa nui ʻē aʻe loa ma nā māhele 
like ʻole o ko mākou kaiāulu. Ua hoʻolālā kaʻu ʻike ma ke kulanui ma nā ʻoihana kūloko a me nā 
mea kūʻai kūpono i kaʻu maopopo ʻana i ka hiki ke hoʻololi i ka pono ma ke kūlana hou ʻana. I 
ka makahiki 2022, ua koho ʻia wau i mea koʻikoʻi no ka Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalana, a ke noi nei 
au e hoʻomau i ka momi ʻana e hoʻomalu ai i nā ʻohana hoʻokahi mākaʻikaʻi o ko mākou wahi, e 
hoʻēmi i ka uku o ka noho, a e hoʻonoho i ko mākou kumuhana no ka lanakila ma ke ao e hiki mai 
ana. No ka hānai ʻana i kaʻu ʻohana, i koʻu wahine, Nikki, a me ko mākou keiki hou, Kīlaʻa, mahalo 
nui no kou kūpono e hoʻonui i ka pono o kākou kaiāulu, a ke noi aku nei me ka haʻahaʻa, e hāʻawi 
mai i kahi hope i kou koho.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
BULOSAN, Addison
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Addison C. Bulosan 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
www.addisonbulosan.com
addisonbulosan@gmail.com
(808) 652-1442
 Ke holo moho aku nei au e noho hou i lālā o ka ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi. Ua 
maʻa nō au i ka lawelawe ʻana no ka lehulehu he iwakālua kumamākolu makahiki ka lōʻihi, ʻo au 
ka meia o ko mākou mokupuni aloha he ʻumi makahiki, a he lālā wau o ka ʻaha kūkā o ke kalana 
he ʻehā makahiki, ua nui nō koʻu mākaukau, a e hoʻomau nō wau i ka lawelawe me ka hoʻoholo 
nō hoʻi i nā manaʻo he nui nō no ko kākou home mokupuni. Nui nō koʻu ʻiʻini e hoʻomau i ka 
hana me ka hoʻoikaika pū i ke kākoʻo i ko kākou home ma Kauaʻi nei i palekana ka noho ʻana 
o kā kākou mau kamaliʻi a me ko kākou poʻe kūpuna me ke ola māhuahua loa. Ma koʻu ʻaoʻao 
ʻo au ka Luna o ke Kōmike Hoʻolālā, nui koʻu pīhoihoi e hoʻomaka i ke Kumumanaʻo Hoʻolālā 
o Kauaʻi Hikina, a e hoʻomau nō au i nā papa hana ā puni ka mokupuni e holomua nei. Pono e 
hoʻomau ʻia ke kākoʻo a me ka hana e pono ai ka ʻOna Hale Makepono, ka Hoʻomākaukau ʻana 
no ka Pōʻino, a me ka Hoʻoponopono Alanui. E koho iā Bernard Carvalho Jr. no kona Holomua Loa 
ma ke Alakaʻi ʻana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
CARVALHO, Bernard P., Jr.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Bernard P. Carvalho Jr.
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
carvalhob003@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-7489
 Aloha, makemake au e lawelawe i ke kau eha ma ke ano he hoa ahaolelo Kalana o 
Kauai. Ke hoʻomau nei ʻo “E ho’omakaukau I Ka Po’e Mua” i kaʻu ʻōlelo a me kaʻu mea nui ma o 
ka hoʻokaʻawale ʻana i ka manawa e hoʻolohe ai, e hele i kou kūlanakauhale, e hoʻomaopopo i nā 
pilikia i hōʻike ʻia a hana pū me nā kaiāulu a me nā mea koho e kūkulu i nā hoʻonā. E hoʻonui i ko 
mākou kūʻokoʻa e hoʻoholo i nā hale a hoʻolālā i ko mākou hana i mea e hoʻoponopono hou ai i 
ko mākou mālama ʻana iā mākou iho ma loko o ke kūlana hou o ke ao, he mea nui loa. Pono kākou 
e hoʻoikaika pū me ka mālama ʻana i nā naʻauao moʻomeheu o ko kākou mau hoʻoilina like ʻole. 
ʻO ka hoʻoikaika ʻana i ka maikaʻi o ke ola, ke kūʻokoʻa o ke koho ʻana, a me ka hoʻomohala ʻana 
i nā hana hoʻokele pōʻino e pono iaʻu. ʻO koʻu ʻike i ka ʻenekinia, ʻoihana, hoʻonaʻauao, a me ka 
hana manawaleʻa i ka ʻuwao, ka mahiʻai kaiāulu, ka ʻoihana waiwai, a me ka pāpaʻi e hana i koʻu 
ʻike. Pōmaikaʻi wau i ka lilo ʻana i makuahine a me ke kupuna wahine e noho ana ma Kilauea. ʻO 
ka ʻaha kūkā wale nō kaʻu manaʻo a me ka hoʻokō manawa piha. Mahalo i kou noʻonoʻo ʻana 
iaʻu i lunamakaʻāinana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
COWDEN, Felicia
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Felicia Eileen Cowden 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
feliciacowden.com
feliciacowden@gmail.com
(808) 652-43632024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Waeʻano koho
Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
76Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Kauaʻi
 Aloha, mahalo nui au i ka imi ana i noho ma ka aha kalana o Kauai a me Ni’ihau, a he 
7 mau hanauna o ia’u iho, ua loaa, a e mau nei no hoi, ka pono e kapa aku ia Kauai ko kakou aina 
hānau. ʻO koʻu kuleana i ka mālama ʻana i nā keiki a me nā kūpuna, ola, a me nā kumuwaiwai 
kūlohelohe a me ka moʻomeheu e hiki ai iaʻu ke hana a loaʻa nā hopena e pale ai i ka wā e hiki 
mai ana o Kauaʻi a me Niʻihau. ʻO wau ʻo SHERRI CUMMINGS, he kanaka wāhine, e noi ana i ka 
hoʻomaka hou ʻana i kou leo hou i ka ʻAha Kalana. Hoʻoikaika a hoʻoikaika ʻia nā kumu e hāpai i 
ka hanohano o koʻu mau kūpuna me nā kūpuna, ke noi aku nei au i kou noʻonoʻo ʻana a me kou 
koho balota. Hiki iā ʻoe ke aʻo hou e pili ana iaʻu ma www.cummingsforcouncil.org. a paipai wau 
iā ʻoe e kelepona mai iaʻu ma pikakecummings1@gmail.com. I mai la me ka ha’a ha’a me ke aloha, 
(Said with humility and love) Sherri Cummings
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
CUMMINGS, Sherri
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Sherri  Cummings 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
malamaanahola.sc@gmail.com
(808) 635-2085
 Aloha Kauaʻi a me Niʻihau, ʻO Billy DeCosta koʻu inoa. Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i kou 
kākoʻo i koʻu koho hou ʻana. Ua paʻa loa au ma ʻaneʻi ma ko mākou mokupuni nani, male no 27 
mau makahiki a ua hānai ʻia 3 mau keiki kāne. ʻO kaʻu mau hana kālaiʻāina i kēia mau huaʻōlelo 
2 i hala. Haʻaheo au i koʻu komo ʻana i ka huki ʻana i kā mākou papa ʻauhau waiwai Ag Bill 
2875 e kākoʻo ana i nā mahiʻai a me nā kahu hānai. Ua hana a kōkua au me ka Bila 2910 e hiki 
ai i ko mākou Kalana ke hoʻolimalima i nā mākaʻikaʻi no ka hoʻopakele ʻia ʻana. Ua kōkua au i 
ka hana ʻana i ka Bila 2913 e hoʻonui i kā mākou uku kolepa no nā kamaʻāina ʻole / kamaʻāina 
ma ko mākou papa kolepa honua ʻo Wailua. Ke hana nei au me Chair Rapozo ma ka Bila 2919, he 
bila hale hookipa Ag, e hoonui ai i ka nui o ka hale ma nā waiwai Ag/CPR. Ke hana nei au i kēia 
manawa ma ke kahe ʻana a me ke ahi e hōʻoia i ka kuleana o ka mea nona ka ʻāina.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
DECOSTA, Billy D.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Bill D. DeCosta 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
billyndrena@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 639-8533
 ʻO koʻu manaʻo hoʻoikaika no ka holo ʻana no ka ʻAha Kalana no koʻu komo ʻana 
i ke kaiāulu a me koʻu hoʻolaʻa ʻana i ka pono pilikanaka a me ke kaiapuni. He ʻohana a he nui 
koʻu mau hoa kamaliʻi, e like me aʻu, ke pilikia nei ka hoʻolako ʻana i ko lākou ʻohana a me ka 
hoʻokō ʻana i nā mea e pono ai. Ua hānau ʻia au a hānai ʻia ma Kapahi. Ke hoʻoholo nei mākou 
e hoʻokumu i ka wā e hiki mai ana no Kauaʻi, ke hoʻohiki nei au e hana i nā mea a pau i koʻu 
mana e pale aku i ka pono o ko mākou ʻohana kūloko me ka mahalo i ka moʻolelo kūʻokoʻa a 
me ka moʻomeheu o ko mākou mokupuni a me ka mahalo i ko mākou pilikia kālā. ʻO koʻu ʻike 
ola, ka hoʻonaʻauao, nā mākau kālailai, ke ʻano o ka hana like ʻana, a me nā mākau kamaʻilio 
kūpono e kōkua i ka ʻAha Kalana o Kauaʻi e hana i nā hoʻoholo i noʻonoʻo maikaʻi ʻia e pono ai 
ka mokupuni a me kona poʻe kamaʻāina. Manaʻo wau hiki iaʻu ke lilo i leo ikaika a kākoʻo no ko 
mākou kaiāulu. Loaʻa nā mea hou aʻe ma votefern.com.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
HOLLAND, Fern Anuenue
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Fern A. Holland 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
votefern.com
votefern@gmail.com
(808) 634-6242
 ʻO Ross Kagawa koʻu inoa a he kāne haʻaheo wau no 31 mau makahiki, me ʻelua 
kaikamahine a me ʻekolu moʻopuna wahine e noho nei ma Kauaʻi. He kumu hoʻomaha au a he 
mea heluhelu mua, me kaʻu mau Laepua BA i Hoʻoponopono ʻOihana a me Mālama Moʻohelu 
Kālā mai ke Kulanui o Hawaiʻi ma Mānoa a me Laepua BA i Hoʻonaʻauao mai ke Kulanui ʻo 
Chaminade. I koʻu hoʻomaka ʻana i ka polikika, ʻo kaʻu pahuhopu ka hāʻawi ʻana i nā ʻohana 
hana i kēlā me kēia lā i kahi noho ma ka papa ʻaina. I kēia manawa, me nā makahiki he ʻumi o 
ka ʻike ma lalo o koʻu kāʻei, paʻa mau kēlā pahuhopu. Me ke ʻano o ka hoʻokele waiwai i kēia 
manawa, ʻoi aku ka nui o ka manawa, pono i ka ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalana Kauaʻi e hoʻomāhuahua 
i ka nele o nā hale noho kūpono e hiki ke loaʻa ʻia a e maʻalahi hoʻi i ko mākou ʻohana kūloko e 
noho ma Kauaʻi nei. ʻO nā nīnau a i ʻole nā manaʻo, e ʻoluʻolu e kelepona i kēlā me kēia manawa 
no ka mea ʻo koʻu pono ka lawelawe ʻana i ka poʻe o Kauaʻi.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KAGAWA, Ross
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Ross K. Kagawa 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
kagawar004@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-16052024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō77Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Kauaʻi
 Ke holo moho nei au no ka ʻAha Kūkā o Kauaʻi, no ka mea, aloha nō au iā Kauaʻi nei 
a he mea nui nō ka holomua ʻana ma kēia mua iho. Hoʻopili nō au i koʻu mākaukau ma ka ʻona 
hui hana a me ka ʻoihana helu kālā i kaʻu hana aupuni, he ʻewalu oʻu makahiki i ka lawelawe 
ʻana ma ka ʻaha kūkā i Luna o ka moʻo helu kālā, ʻehā oʻu makahiki ʻo au ka Luna o ka ʻAha 
Kūkā, ua ikaika nō au ma ka lawelawe ʻana no ka lehulehu, ua aʻo ʻia nō au e ka ʻohana, nā 
kumu kula, nā kaʻi hui pāʻani, a me ka lehulehu nō ma ka lunaʻikehala pono. Ua hānai ʻia nō 
au i ʻaneʻi, a manaʻo nō au he ʻelele kūpono nō au no ka poʻe o Kauaʻi nei me Niʻihau, no ka 
mea, he kamaʻāina maʻamau nō au no Kauaʻi nei e hoʻoikaika nei i ka hana a makemake nō au 
e māhuahua koʻu ola me ke ola nō hoʻi o koʻu ʻohana. Pā koʻu naʻau me ka haʻahaʻa a me ka 
hanohano ke lilo mai kou koho pāloka iaʻu ma kēia holo moho ʻana.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KANESHIRO, Arryl J.
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Arryl J. Kaneshiro 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
arrylkaneshiro@gmail.com
(808) 652-5216
 He lālā kūpaʻa o ke kaiāulu, ʻo Butch Keahiolalo he moho no ka ʻAha Kalana. Ma ke 
ʻano he kumu hoʻonaʻauao mua, ʻoihana, a i hoʻomaha hoʻi i ke ahi ma Kauaʻi, ua ʻike ʻo ia i ka 
waiwai o ka hoʻokomo ʻana i ke kālā i ka hoʻonaʻauao ʻana i kā mākou mau keiki, e hāʻawi ana i 
nā kamaʻāina e komo i ka hana, a me ka mālama ʻana i ka palekana a me ka maikaʻi o ko mākou 
kaiāulu. Hana ʻo Butch i nā hoʻoholo e pili ana i kāna mau kumu, e hōʻoiaʻiʻo ana e hana ʻo ia i 
mea e pono ai nā mea āpau o ko mākou kaiāulu. Inā koho ʻia ʻo ia, ua hoʻohiki ʻo ia e hoʻolohe 
i nā manaʻo o ke kaiāulu, e hana pū me nā alakaʻi kūloko, a e hoʻomau i ka hana maikaʻi o ka 
hoʻolilo ʻana iā Kauaʻi i wahi kūpono no ka poʻe e noho ai, hana, a hānai ʻohana. . Hoʻomaikaʻi ʻo 
Butch i kona kaiāulu, nā hoaaloha, a me kona ʻohana no kā lākou kākoʻo.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KEAHIOLALO, W. Butch
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
William Butch Keahiolalo 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
butchkeahiolalo@gmail.com
(808) 635-0388
 Aloha kākou! Ke noho nei au ma ke ʻano he Hope Luna ʻAha, Luna Hoʻomalu o ke 
Kōmike Hale Noho a Pili Waena Aupuni a me ka Hope Luna Hoʻokele o ke Kōmike Waiwai a me 
ka Hoʻomohala Hoʻokele Waiwai. Ke lawelawe nei au ma ke ʻano he ʻelele o Hawaiʻi ma ka Hui 
Kaumokuʻāina o nā Kalana (NACo). He ʻaneʻane kanahā mau makahiki koʻu ʻike ma ka hana ʻana 
ma ke aupuni, nā ʻuniona hana, nā hui komoloaʻa ʻole a me nā hui kaiaulu. I kēlā manawa, ua 
hōʻike wau iaʻu iho he paʻakikī, hilinaʻi a noʻonoʻo. Ua hōʻike pū au i koʻu kūpaʻa i ka lawelawe 
aupuni, koʻu ʻike pili kānāwai, koʻu ikaika me ka hoʻolilo kālā, koʻu ʻike i nā pilikia a me koʻu 
kūpaʻa e hana mau i kaʻu haʻawina hoʻihoʻi, hoʻolohe pono a hana hui pū. ʻO ka mea nui, aloha 
nui au iā Kauaʻi a me Niʻihau a ua kūpaʻa wau e hana mau i ka ʻokoʻa! Ke noi haʻahaʻa nei au i 
kekahi o kāu mau pāloka ʻehiku. E ʻoluʻolu hoʻi e koho pāloka i ʻehā a i ʻole ʻelima paha o mākou 
mau moho i mea e hoʻoikaika a hoʻonui i ko mākou aupuni na ka lehulehu me ko mākou mau 
lunamakaʻāinana. Mahalo nui loa!!!
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
KUALII, KipuKai
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
KipuKai L.P. Kualii 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
kipukai.kualii@gmail.com
(808) 652-3684
 ʻAʻohe ʻōlelo i waiho ʻia
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
NELSON, Jacquelyn (Jakki)
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Jacquelyn N. Nelson 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
nelson5599@twc.com
(808) 631-82252024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA 
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō78Lālā ʻAha Kūkā o ke Kalena ʻo Kauaʻi
 Ke ʻimi nei au e koho hou i ka ʻAha Kalana ʻo Kauai no ka mea ke manaʻoʻiʻo nei au i 
ka mana o ka hoʻololi maikaʻi a me ka hiki ke lilo ke aupuni i mea ikaika i ke ola o ka poʻe. Loaʻa 
kaʻu kūpaʻa i ka makemake maoli e hoʻoponopono i nā pilikia koʻikoʻi e kū nei i ko mākou kaiāulu. 
Ma hope o ka ʻike ʻana i nā luʻi a nā poʻe a me nā ʻohana he nui, ua hoʻoikaika ʻia au e kākoʻo 
i nā kulekele e hoʻoikaika i ka hoʻohui, kaulike, a me ka holomua. ʻO koʻu ʻike ma ka lawelawe 
kaiāulu a me ka hoʻolaʻa ʻana i ka hui pū ʻana e hiki iaʻu ke hoʻokaʻawale i nā māhele a hana i nā 
hoʻonā e pōmaikaʻi ai nā mea āpau. ʻAʻole au i alakaʻi ʻia e ka manaʻo pilikino, akā na ka manaʻo 
hohonu o ke kuleana e kōkua i ka pono o ko mākou kaiāulu. Ma koʻu holo ʻana i ka ʻoihana, 
manaʻo wau e lawe mai i nā kuanaʻike hou, kamaʻilio maopopo, a me ka kūpaʻa i ka lawelawe 
ʻana i ka pono o ka lehulehu.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
RAPOZO, Mel
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Melvin F. Rapozo 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
www.melforcouncil.org
melrapozo@gmail.com
(808) 645-0243
 Bart J Thomas Bart J Thomas County o Kauai Non-partisan (808)635-8466 leka 
uila - Bart@voteforbartKauai.com Website -voteforbartkauai.com Hoʻolaʻa i ka hana, hoʻokomo 
wau i ka mantra “ʻOi aku ka leo o nā hana ma mua o nā huaʻōlelo.” I loko o ka maʻi COVID, ua 
lawelawe au ma ke ʻano he lālā paʻa o ka Pūʻali Ola o Kauai, e hāʻawi ana i ke kākoʻo koʻikoʻi 
i ko mākou kaiāulu home ʻole. Ma ke ʻano he kanaka koa haʻaheo a he lālā ikaika o ke kaiāulu 
Kauai, makemake nui au i ka hāʻawi ʻana. Ua loaʻa i kaʻu mau hana ʻohi kālā ke kākoʻo nui ʻana, 
e hopena ana i nā hoʻomaikaʻi nui ʻana i ka hale Veterans Center, e like me kahi hale hou o ka lā 
a me kahi Hale Hōʻikeʻike Koa i hoʻoponopono hou ʻia. Ua hoʻolako kālā au i nā papahana e like 
me Vacation for Warriors, kahi e ʻae ai i nā koa ʻeha e hui hou me ko lākou ʻohana ma kahi wahi 
maluhia mai ka pilikia o nā kipa haukapila. Eia kekahi, ua hoʻolako kālā au i ka Children’s Dream 
Foundation, nāna e hāʻawi i nā hoʻomaha moeʻuhane no nā keiki e kū nei i ka maʻi kanesa a 
hāʻawi iā lākou a me ko lākou ʻohana i nā manawa hauʻoli a hoʻomaha.
INOA MA LUNA O KA PĀLOKA:
THOMAS, Bart
INOA MA KE KAUOHA:
Bart J. Thomas 
Lālā ʻAhakūkā
Bart@voteforbartkauai.com
(808) 635-8466
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō79
Hoʻololi Palapala 2024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Kumukānāwai o ke Mokuʻāinaʻo Hawaiʻi
UA HĀʻAWI ʻIA KĒIA MAU ʻŌLELO E KE AUPUNI O HAWAI‘I, KE KEʻENA 
HOʻOKOLOKOLO NUI
NĪNAU #1: Ka Wehe ʻana i Kahi ʻŌlelo Kūikawā e Pili Ana i ke Kuleana o ka 
ʻAhaʻōlelo e Mālama i ka Male ʻia ʻana i waena o nā kāne a me nā wāhine 
wale nō
NĪNAU
E hoʻololi ʻia anei ke kumukānāwai o ke Aupuni Mokuʻāina i ka lawe ʻana aku i ka mana o ka 
ʻahaʻōlelo e hoʻopaʻa i ka male ʻana i waena o nā kāne a me nā wāhine wale nō?
WEHEWEHE
ʻO ka mea i hoʻomaka ʻia, e hoʻopau i ka ʻōlelo kūikawā ma ke kūlana kūloko o Hawaiʻi e 
hāʻawi ai i ka Manaʻoʻo o ka Legislative e mālama i ka hoʻohālikelike ʻana i nā maʻi wahine a 
me nā maʻi kāne wale nō.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAE” KOHO
ʻO ka “ʻAe” koho e ʻoki i ka ʻōlelo kūikawā ma ka Pākīpika Hoʻokahi o Hawaiʻi, i hāʻawi ai i ka 
hoʻopaʻa ʻāina i ka Legislatūre e mālama i ka hoʻokahi ma ke ʻano he hoʻopaʻa i nā kānāwai 
ma luna o nā pāʻoihana.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAʻOLE” KOHO
ʻO ka “ʻAʻole” koho e hāʻawi i ka hoʻohui ʻole i ka Pākīpika Hoʻokahi o Hawaiʻi a e waiho ana 
i ka ʻōlelo kūikawā ma ka Pākīpika Hoʻokahi o Hawaiʻi, i hāʻawi ai i ka Legislatūre i ka mana e 
mālama i ka hoʻokahi ma ke ʻano he hoʻopaʻa i nā kānāwai ma luna o nā pāʻoihana.
KE ANO O KA BLANKE VOTE A OVERVOTE
ʻO ka vote “ʻākau ʻole” ʻaʻole e helu ʻia ma ke ʻano he vote “ʻae” a i ʻole he vote “no” ma ke 
nīnau.  Ma lieu o laila, e helu ʻia ka vote “ʻākau ʻole” i ka nui o nā vote i hāʻawi ʻia.  ʻO ka vote 
“ʻoi aku” ʻaʻole e helu ʻia ma ke ʻano he vote “ʻae” a i ʻole he vote “no” ma ke nīnau.  Ma lieu o 
laila, e helu ʻia ka vote “ʻoi aku” i ka nui o nā vote i hāʻawi ʻia.
I mea e hoʻoponopono ʻia ai ka hoʻopuka ʻana i ka manaʻo o ka ʻAha Hui o Hawaii, pono e 
koho ʻia ka majority o nā vote i helu ʻia ma ke nīnau (i.e., nā vote “ʻae” a me nā vote “no” wale 
nō). Eia hou, e pono kēia majority e hoʻokō i ka hapa ʻelua o nā vote i hāʻawi ʻia ma ke koho 
(i.e., nā vote “ʻae, ” “no, ” “ʻākau ʻole, ” a me nā vote “ʻoi aku”).
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala a pau 
me nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo pākuʻi i hāpai 
ʻia, e kele aku i elections.hawaii.gov  
a i ʻole e kāhea i (808) 453-8683.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
80Hoʻololi Palapala 2024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Kumukānāwai o ke Mokuʻāinaʻo Hawaiʻi
UA HĀʻAWI ʻIA KĒIA MAU ʻŌLELO E KE AUPUNI O HAWAI‘I, KE KEʻENA HOʻOKOLOKOLO NUI
NĪNAU #2: Hoʻohālikelike i ke ʻano hana koho o ka Kenekoa no nā 
hana hoʻoholo hoʻopaʻa inoa
NĪNAU
Eia, e koho ʻia anei ka Constitution o ka State of Hawaii e hoʻomaikaʻi i ke 
koho a me ka hana hoʻopaʻa inoa no nā mea koho a me nā ʻōlelo e like me ka 
hana hoʻopaʻa inoa no nā mea koho a me nā ʻōlelo kiʻekiʻe a me nā kūlana 
hoʻopaʻa inoa ma ke ʻano like, e koho ai:
(1) E hōʻike aku ai ka Komike Hoʻokeʻakeʻa no ka Manaʻo i ka Mea 
Hoʻokeʻakeʻa i ka papa inoa me nā mea koho ʻelua a me ʻeono i kēlā 
me kēia hanana;
(2) E hoʻomaopopo ʻia ka mea koho i ke koho ʻana no ka hana ma o ka 
Kenekoa a hiki i ka lā 30 ma hope o ka loaʻa ʻana o ka hōʻike ʻana i ka hana;
(3) E koho hou ka Lunakanawai Kiekie mai ka papa inoa o na mea i kohoia e 
ka Aha Apana iloko o na la he umi ke hoole ka Kenekoa i ka hookohu; a
(4) E hoʻohālikelike ʻia ka hana a me ka hoʻokuleana hiki ʻole i ka hana 
kūpono, a inā ʻole hiki i ka Komike Hoʻokeʻakeʻa e koho i ka papa inoa o nā 
mea koho, me ka ʻole o ka Kenekoa?
WEHEWEHE
ʻO ke kaʻina hana hoʻopaʻa Kenekoa e kū nei no nā koho hoʻokolokolo i hana 
ʻia e ke Kiaʻāina i ka ʻAha Kiekie o Hawaiʻi, ka ʻAha Hoʻopiʻi Kūwaena, a me nā 
ʻAha Kaapuni, ʻokoʻa ia mai ke kaʻina hana hōʻoia o ka Kenekoa no nā koho 
hoʻokolokolo i hana ʻia e ka Lunakanawai Kiʻekiʻe i nā ʻAha Apana Mokuʻāina.  
ʻO ke kumu o kēia hoʻololi i ka ʻatikala VI, pauku 3, o ke Kumukānāwai 
Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi, ʻo ia ka hana ʻana i ke kaʻina hana a me Kenekoa ʻae 
ʻana no nā luna kānāwai o ka ʻaha apana e like me ke koho ʻana a me ke 
kaʻina hana ʻae Kenekoa no nā luna kānāwai a me nā luna kānāwai ʻē aʻe.
Ma lalo o ke kaʻina hana hōʻoia hoʻopaʻa inoa hou no nā mea koho i nā State 
District Courts, ua hoʻokumu ʻia ke koho ʻana i ka pōkole ʻana o nā lā ʻehiku 
a hiki i ka ʻelua o ka manaʻo ʻana mai ka Kenekoa.  No ka mea he keʻena 
hoʻopaʻa inoa i ka ʻapo ʻana, pono i ka Kenekoa e hui i nā hālāwai kūikawā i 
loko o ka makahiki no ka mea hana e hoʻokō i nā hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻana i nā koho 
i nā State District Courts.
ʻO kēia hoʻololi e ʻae ʻia nā koho ʻaha apana e noʻonoʻo ʻokoʻa ʻia inā ʻae ʻia 
ka Kenekoa ʻaʻole hiki ke hōʻole i ke koho i loko o kanakolu lā.  ʻO kēia hoʻololi 
e hana i nā kaʻina hana no ka Kenekoa ʻo ke kaʻina hana hoʻopaʻa no nā 
koho hoʻokolokolo mokuʻāina like ʻole, me ka nānā ʻole i ke kiaʻāina a i ʻole ka 
Lunakanawai Kiʻekiʻe.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAE” KOHO
ʻAʻole e hiki i ke koho ʻana a “ʻAe” e hana i ka hana hoʻopaʻa inoa a me ka 
hōʻoia ʻana no nā mea koho i nā State District Courts e like me ke koho ʻana 
a me ka hana hōʻoia ʻana no nā mea koho i ka Supreme Court, Intermediate 
Court of Appeals, a me nā Circuit Court.ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAʻOLE” KOHO
ʻAʻole e hiki i ke koho ʻana a “ʻAʻole” e hana i kekahi hoʻololi i ke Anamu 
Hawaii a waiho i ka hana hoʻopaʻa inoa ʻana ʻokoʻa no nā mea koho i nā State 
District Courts i hoʻopaʻa ʻia e ka Chief Justice ma luna o ka hana no nā mea 
koho i ka Supreme Court a me nā mea koho i nā Circuit Court i hoʻopaʻa ʻia e 
ka Governor.
KE ANO O KA BLANKE VOTE A OVERVOTE
ʻO ka vote “ʻākau ʻole” ʻaʻole e helu ʻia ma ke ʻano he vote “ʻae” a i ʻole he 
vote “no” ma ke nīnau.  Ma lieu o laila, e helu ʻia ka vote “ʻākau ʻole” i ka nui o 
nā vote i hāʻawi ʻia.  ʻO ka vote “ʻoi aku” ʻaʻole e helu ʻia ma ke ʻano he vote 
“ʻae” a i ʻole he vote “no” ma ke nīnau.  Ma lieu o laila, e helu ʻia ka vote “ʻoi 
aku” i ka nui o nā vote i hāʻawi ʻia.
I mea e hoʻoponopono ʻia ai ka hoʻopuka ʻana i ka manaʻo o ka ʻAha Hui o 
Hawaii, pono e koho ʻia ka majority o nā vote i helu ʻia ma ke nīnau (i.e., nā 
vote “ʻae” a me nā vote “no” wale nō). Eia hou, e pono kēia majority e hoʻokō i 
ka hapa ʻelua o nā vote i hāʻawi ʻia ma ke koho (i.e., nā vote “ʻae, ” “no, ” “ʻākau 
ʻole, ” a me nā vote “ʻoi aku”).
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō812024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kalana ʻo Hawaiʻi
NA KE KALANA O HAWAII KEIA MAU OLELO, KEENA O KA AHA KUHINA
NĪNAU #1: He hakahaka o ka Aha Kalana ma ke Keena
NĪNAU
E hoʻololi ʻia anei ke Kumukanawai o ke Kalana o Hawaiʻi i mea e 
hoʻonohonoho ai i ka mea i wae ʻia ma ke koho balota e mālama i ka noho o 
ka ʻAhaʻōlelo Kalana ke loaʻa ka hakahaka i kēlā noho ma hope o ke koho ʻia 
ʻana o ia kanaka i ka wā koho no ka manawa e hiki mai ana, i nāna e hoʻopau i 
ke koena o ka wā hoʻonoho?
WEHEWEHE
Ke hoʻomaopopo nei kēia ʻōlelo e pili ana i ka wā e loaʻa ai ka hakahaka ma ka 
ʻAhaʻōlelo Kalana, e koho ka hapa nui o nā lālā o ke kōmike i mea pani ma o 
ka ʻāpono ʻana o kahi hoʻoholo no ke koena o ka wā hoʻonoho i koe.  Ma waho 
aʻe, ke hoʻohui nei i nā ʻōlelo hou e koi ana i ka ʻAha Kūkā e hoʻopihapiha i 
ka hakahaka me kahi kanaka i koho ʻia e hoʻopihapiha i ka noho akā ʻaʻole 
i komo i ka oihana.  No ka laʻana, inā he lālā o ka ʻAha Kūkā e waiho i ka 
hoʻokaʻawale ma hope o ka koho balota akā ma mua o ka hoʻomaka ʻana o 
kahi manawa hou, a inā ua koho pono ʻia kahi hope, e koi ʻia ka ʻAha Kūkā 
e koho i ka mea i koho ʻia pono e lawelawe i ke koena o ka wā i koe o ka 
manawa ʻaʻole i pau.  Ke hoʻolako pū nei ka hoʻohui i manaʻo ʻia e ʻaʻole e pili 
ka koena o ka wā i koe i lawe ʻia e kahi lālā o ka ʻAha Kūkā e hoʻopihapiha i 
kahi hakahaka i ka palena manawa i kūkulu ʻia ma lalo o Ke Kumukānāwai o 
ka Kalana Hawaiʻi Māhele 3-2.
NĪNAU #2: Koho Meia i na Luna Oihana
NĪNAU
E hoʻololi ʻia anei ke Kumukānāwai o ke Kalana o Hawaiʻi e koi i ka Mēia e 
hoʻonoho i nā poʻo ʻāpana i loko o 30 lā mai ka hoʻomaka ʻana o kēlā me kēia 
kau mēmala, a i loko o 60 lā no kekahi hakahaka i ke keʻena i kū i loko o ke kau 
mēmala?
WEHEWEHE
Hō‘ike kēia palapala i nā palena manawa no ke Kia‘āina e koho i nā poʻo 
‘oihana i ka wā e komo ai i ke ke‘ena a i ka wā e kū mai ai nā hakahaka.NĪNAU #3: Manawa Hoʻokō no ka ʻAha Kālā o ke Aupuni
NĪNAU
E hoʻololi ʻia paha ke Kumukānāwai o ke Kalana o Hawaiʻi i ka hoʻonui 
ʻana i ka lōʻihi o ka manawa no nā lālā o ka ʻAha Kālā o ke Aupuni mai 
ʻumikūmākahi mahina a hiki i iwakālua kūmālua mahina a e hoʻonui ʻia ka 
palena manawa no ka hoʻouna ʻana i ka hōʻike a ka ʻAha mai ʻumikūmākahi 
mahina ma hope o ka hoʻonoho ʻia ʻana a i iwakālua mahina ma hope o ka 
hoʻonoho ʻia ʻana?
WEHEWEHE
Hoʻonui kēia ʻōlelo hoʻoholo i ka lōʻihi o ka wā lawelawe no nā lālā o ke 
Kōmike Kālā o ke Aupuni mai nā malama he ʻumikumamākahi a hiki i nā 
malama he ʻiwakāluakumamālua.  Inā ʻae ʻia, e hoʻomaka nā wā lawelawe o 
nā lālā o ke kōmike i nā malama he ʻumikumamāwalu ma hope o ka hoʻomaka 
ʻana o ke kau o ka Meia a e lōʻihi no nā malama he ʻiwakāluakumamālua.  Eia 
hou, e hoʻonui ka hoʻohui ʻana i ka palena pau o ke kōmike e hoʻouna i kāna 
hōʻike mai nā malama he ʻumikumamākahi ma hope o ka hoʻonoho ʻia ʻana a i 
nā malama he iwakāluakumamālua ma hope o ka hoʻonoho ʻia ʻana.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala a pau me nā 
hoʻololi ʻōlelo pākuʻi i hāpai ʻia, e kele aku i 
www.hawaiicounty.gov/charteramendments  
a i ʻole e kāhea i (808) 961-8255.
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
82Hoʻololi Palapala 2024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kalana ʻo Maui
NA KE KALANA O MAUI KEIA MAU OLELO, KEENA O KA AHA KUHINA
NĪNAU #1: Komisina Uku
NĪNAU
E pono ke hoʻoponopono ʻia ka Charter e koi i ka Kāmaka Hāʻawi kālā e hoʻoponopono i nā 
“kālā” ma loko o nā kauā a me nā mea e koho ʻia, a me nā mea hoʻolālā a me nā mea noho no 
ka hana e mālama i ka hana ma ka ʻōlelo Hawaiʻi a me ka mālama ʻana i nā hoʻopaʻa kūpono 
e hāʻawi i ka maikaʻi e like me ka hoʻopaʻa ʻana i nā kālā huikau no ka huakaʻi?
WEHEWEHE
I kēia manawa, ʻo ka Paukū 8, Mokuna 17 o ka Palapala Hoʻoponopono Hou o ke Kalana ʻo 
Maui e ʻōlelo ana na ke Komisina Uku no ke Kalana ʻo Maui "e hoʻoholo i ka uku o nā luna 
koho a me nā luna hoʻokele a me nā hope alakaʻi o nā keʻena āpau o ke kalana." (hoʻohui 
ʻia ke koʻikoʻi).  Paukū XVI, Pauku 3.5 o ke Kumukānāwai o ka Mokuʻāina ʻo Hawaiʻi a me nā 
ʻōlelo pili o nā Palapala Hoʻohui no nā Kalana ʻē aʻe, e hoʻohana i ka huaʻōlelo "uku" ma kahi 
o ka huaʻōlelo "uku."  Ke ʻimi nei kēia hoʻololi e wehewehe e hoʻonohonoho ke Komisina Uku 
no ke Kalana ʻo Maui i nā uku o nā luna i koho ʻia a me nā luna hoʻokele a me nā hope alakaʻi 
i koho ʻia, ʻaʻole i ka "uku," ʻo ia ka mea hiki ke hoʻohālikelike ʻia e komo i nā pōmaikaʻi ʻē aʻe 
e like me ke kumukūʻai huakaʻi. nā luna a i ʻole nā   mea i koho ʻia e noho ana ma Lanai a i 
Molokai a pono e holo i Maui no ko lākou kūlana.  E mālama ʻia nā pōmaikaʻi ʻē aʻe e ka ʻaha 
kūkā a i ʻole ka Meia.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAE” KOHO
ʻO ke koho "ʻae" ʻo ia ka mea e hoʻoholo ai ke Komisina Uku i nā uku o nā luna i koho ʻia a 
me nā luna hoʻokele a me nā hope alakaʻi o ke Kalana o Maui.  ʻAʻole kēia e komo i nā pono 
uku ʻē aʻe e like me ka uku huakaʻi no nā luna a me nā mea i koho ʻia e noho ana ma Lanai a 
i Molokai a pono e holo i Maui no ko lākou mau kūlana, e hoʻokele ʻia e ka ʻaha kūkā a i ʻole 
ka Meia.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAʻOLE” KOHO
ʻO ke koho "ʻaʻole" ʻo ia ka manaʻo e hoʻomau ke Komisina Uku i ka "uku" o nā luna i koho ʻia 
a me nā luna hoʻokele a me nā hope alakaʻi o ke Kalana o Maui, ʻo ia hoʻi nā pōmaikaʻi ma 
mua o nā uku.
KE ANO O KA BLANKE VOTE A OVERVOTE
ʻAʻole e helu ʻia ke koho pākaʻi a i ʻole ke koho balota i ka hoʻoholo ʻana inā ua koho ka hapa 
nui o ka poʻe koho i ka nīnau no ka hoʻokomo ʻana.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala a pau me 
nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo pākuʻi i hāpai ʻia, e 
kele aku i www.mauicountyvotes.gov  
a i ʻole e kāhea i (808) 270-7749.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō832024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kalana ʻo Maui
NA KE KALANA O MAUI KEIA MAU OLELO, KEENA O KA AHA KUHINA
NĪNAU #2: ʻO nā limahana kūʻokoʻa no ka Papa Kaulike
NĪNAU
E hoʻololi ʻia ka Palapala Hoʻohui, e hoʻomaka ana i Iulai 1, 2025, e ʻae i ka Papa Kūlana o ke 
Kalana o Maui e hoʻolimalima i nā limahana kūʻokoʻa?
WEHEWEHE
ʻAʻole he hui pono, hana manawa like ʻole, ka ʻOihana Pilikino o ka County o Maui i kēia 
manawa.  Ma ke ʻano he mea e noho ai, ʻo ke ʻOihana Pilikino he mea i hōʻuluʻulu ʻia i 
kekahi Deputi Hōkū o ka Corporation Counsel a me kekahi secretar, ʻelua o nā mea e hana 
i ka Department of the Corporation Counsel a ʻo nā mea i hana pū me nā kuleana ʻē aʻe e 
hoʻohālikelike me kā lākou hana ma ke ʻano he ʻOihana Pilikino.  ʻAia hoʻi, ke hāʻawi ʻia nā 
mana ʻelua o ka ʻOihana Pilikino i ka ʻOihana ponoʻī, ʻaʻole i ka poʻe hana.  ʻO kēia hoʻololi 
ʻana e ʻae i ka ʻOihana Pilikino e hana i kāna mau poʻe hana ponoʻī, a e hoʻopaʻa i ka poʻe 
hana e hiki ke hāʻawi i nā manaʻo a me ka ʻōlelo, e nānā i nā hōʻike kālā a me nā hoʻopaʻa 
inoa lobbyist, a e nānā i nā mea hoʻopono.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAE” KOHO
ʻO ke koho "ʻae" ʻo ia ka hiki i ka Papa Kūʻai ke hoʻolimalima i kāna mau limahana kūʻokoʻa 
ponoʻī, hiki iā ia ke hana i nā hana kikoʻī e like me ka hāʻawi ʻana i nā manaʻo a me nā ʻōlelo 
aʻo kūpono ʻole, ka nānā ʻana i nā hōʻike kālā a me nā faila lobbyist, a me ka ʻimi ʻana i nā 
hoʻopiʻi etika.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAʻOLE” KOHO
ʻO ke koho "ʻaʻole" ʻo ia ka mea e hoʻomau ʻia ka Papa o ka Ethics e nā limahana mai ka 
'Oihana o ka Hui Kūkākūkā i kaupalena ʻia i nā hana e hiki ai iā lākou ke hana ma ka ʻaoʻao o 
ka Papa Kūʻai.
KE ANO O KA BLANKE VOTE A OVERVOTE
ʻAʻole e helu ʻia ke koho pākaʻi a i ʻole ke koho balota i ka hoʻoholo ʻana inā ua koho ka hapa 
nui o ka poʻe koho i ka nīnau no ka hoʻokomo ʻana.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala a pau me 
nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo pākuʻi i hāpai ʻia, e 
kele aku i www.mauicountyvotes.gov  
a i ʻole e kāhea i (808) 270-7749.
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
84Hoʻololi Palapala 2024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kalana ʻo Maui
NA KE KALANA O MAUI KEIA MAU OLELO, KEENA O KA AHA KUHINA
NĪNAU #3: Olelo Papa a me Komisina
NĪNAU
E hoʻomaikaʻi ʻia ana ke Kānāwai, ma ke ʻano he e hiki ana i ka 1 o Iulai, 2025, e hoʻonui i 
ka ʻole o nā kūleʻa ma nā papa a me nā hoʻoponopono ma kahi paukū, a ʻoi aku hoʻi ma ka 
mau no nā noho a me nā hoʻoponopono i noho ʻole i nā wahi o nā kamaʻāina, e ʻae ana i 
ka hoʻouna ʻana i nā mea koho i nā papa a me nā hoʻoponopono no nā lua o nā manawa 
maʻamau a i ʻole nā makahiki 10 kūpono ʻole, ʻo nā manawa ʻoi aku ia?
WEHEWEHE
I kēia manawa, ʻaʻole ʻae ʻia ka Pauku 13-2(5) o ka Palapala Hoʻohui o ke Kalana o Maui i nā 
lālā o ka papa a i ʻole ke komisina e koho ʻia i ke kau piha ʻelua ma ka papa hoʻokahi a i ʻole 
ke komisina i loko o ʻelua mau makahiki ma hope o ko lākou kau ʻana. pau.  Ma kēia hoʻololi 
e hiki ke koho ʻia nā lālā o ka papa a i ʻole ke komisina no ʻelua mau kau piha, a i ʻole a hiki i 
ʻumi makahiki, ʻo ia ka mea i ʻoi aku.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAE” KOHO
ʻO ke koho "ʻae" ʻo ia ka hiki ke koho ʻia nā lālā o ka papa a i ʻole ke kōmike i ke kau piha ʻelua 
ma ka papa a i ʻole ke komisina hoʻokahi.
ʻIKE ʻANA O KA “ʻAʻOLE” KOHO
ʻO ke koho "ʻaʻole" ʻaʻole hiki ke koho ʻia kekahi lālā o ka papa a i ʻole ke kōmike i ka manawa 
piha ʻelua ma ka papa a i ʻole ke komisina hoʻokahi.
KE ANO O KA BLANKE VOTE A OVERVOTE
ʻAʻole e helu ʻia ke koho pākaʻi a i ʻole ke koho balota i ka hoʻoholo ʻana inā ua koho ka hapa 
nui o ka poʻe koho i ka nīnau no ka hoʻokomo ʻana.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala a pau me 
nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo pākuʻi i hāpai ʻia, e 
kele aku i www.mauicountyvotes.gov  
a i ʻole e kāhea i (808)  270-7749.
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō85Hoʻololi Palapala 2024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi
NA KE KALANA O KAUAI KEIA MAU OLELO, KEENA O KA LOIO KALANA
HOOLOLI 1: E pili ana i na hookolokolo o ke Komisina Makai.
NĪNAU
E hoʻomaka anei ka puka makani o ke Komisina Makai he 90 lā no ka hōʻike ʻana i nā hopena 
hoʻokolokolo i kākau ʻia ke loaʻa i ke Komisina ka hōʻike hoʻokolokolo?
PŪNAHEA
ʻO kēia Hoʻololi ʻAha Kūkā e hāʻawi i ka manawa kūpono i ka Hoʻolālā Pū e hana i nā noi 
hoʻopaʻa a nā kamaʻāina e hoʻokō ai i nā kānāwai i hoʻokumu ʻia i ka ʻOihana Pāʻāʻī a i ʻole nā 
lāʻau paʻa.
KĀNĀWAI
ʻO ke ʻano o ka Hoʻolālā (ʻO Kaua’i County Charter, ʻāpana 11.03.C.) i kēia manawa ke ʻōlelo, 
“E loaʻa, e hoʻomaka, a e nānā i nā noi i hoʻokumu ʻia e nā kamaʻāina e pili ana i ke ʻano o ka 
hale a i ʻole nā limahana a me nā ʻano ma ka hapa i nā lā ʻekahi.” ʻAʻole maopopo kēia ʻōlelo 
no ka mea hiki ke hoʻopau ʻia kekahi mau noiʻi ma mua o 90 mau lā. E wehewehe ana kēia 
hoʻololi e waiho ke Komisina i kahi hōʻike i kākau ʻia o kāna mau ʻike i ka Luna Nui o nā Makai 
i loko o 90 mau lā ma hope o ka pau ʻana o ka hoʻokolokolo ʻana. E hoʻokaʻawale kēia lāʻau 
i ke kūlana hana a me ka hōʻike ʻana, e ʻae ai i ka hana ʻana i ka hana a hiki i ka hōʻike ʻana i 
ka Hoʻolālā Pū. A laila he 90 mau lā e hoʻomākaukau ai ke Komisina a waiho i kāna hōʻike i ka 
Luna Nui.
HOOLOLI 2: E pili ana i nā hōʻike Komisina Kūʻai.
NĪNAU
E ʻae ʻia ke Komisina Kūʻai e ʻōlelo i nā kumukūʻai hoʻonui inā manaʻo ʻia lākou e hoʻohua i nā 
kumukūʻai e hiki mai ana?
PŪNAHEA
E hāʻawi kēia hoʻololi i ke Komisina Kūʻai i ka maʻalahi i ka paipai ʻana i ka hoʻomaikaʻi ʻana i 
ka pono o ke aupuni a i ka hoʻokō ʻana i nā hōʻemi lōʻihi o ke kumukūʻai o ka hoʻolako ʻana i 
nā lawelawe aupuni.
KĀNĀWAI
Hoʻoholo ʻia ka ʻOihana Hoʻoponopono Kuleana o ka Mokuʻāina e hoʻolaha i nā hana e hōʻole 
ai i nā papahana a me nā lawelawe a hoʻemi i nā kumukūʻai (Kaua’i County Charter, Māka 
28.04.) Ua ʻike ke komike i kekahi mau manawa, hiki i ka hoʻonui ʻana i ka hāʻawi ʻana i ka 
hana he maikaʻi ʻole a i ʻole kope ʻana i ka manawa loa. He ʻōlelo hou i ke ʻano o ka charter 
e hāʻawi i ka komike i ka flexibility i kāna e pono ai e hoʻokō i kona kūlana e hoʻemi i ka 
kumukūʻai o ka government i ke ʻano kūpono o nā lawelawe aupuni. ʻIke: Pono i nā hoʻoholo 
ʻana o ke Kōmike Mokuʻāina a me ka mea kānāwai ma mua o ka hoʻopaʻa ʻia ʻana.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala a pau 
me nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo pākuʻi i hāpai 
ʻia, e kele aku i kauai.gov/Charter  
a i ʻole e kāhea i (808) 241-4881.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō86
2024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi
NA KE KALANA O KAUAI KEIA MAU OLELO, KEENA O KA LOIO KALANA
HOOLOLI 3: E pili ana i ka Pūʻali ʻAikāne, Nā Pūlehu Kīnā & Nā Kumuwaiwai 
ʻĀkau.
NĪNAU
He hiki i ke 5% o ke Kālā Pūʻali Aupuni e loaʻa no ka mālama ʻana i nā ʻāina, nā kuleana 
property, a i ʻole nā hoʻonui i hoʻokoe ʻia e ke Kālā Pūʻali?
PŪNAHEA
Hoʻohālikelike ʻia kēia Hoʻololi Charters e hōʻoia i nā property e mālama ʻia ana e ka 
Pūnaehana Hoʻopakele ʻĀkau, ʻOihana Kahakai a me nā Pūnaehana Hoʻopakele ʻĀkau e loaʻa 
ana i ka waiwai e hāʻawi i kekahi kākoʻo mālama.
KĀNĀWAI
ʻO ka waihona kālā mālama ʻia o ka lehulehu, ākea a me nā kumu waiwai kūlohelohe o ke 
Kalana (Kauaʻi County Charter, Section 19.15.C.) ka manaʻo nui i ka loaʻa ʻana o nā ʻāina 
no nā kumu i hōʻike ʻia ma kona inoa, e hōʻoia i ke komo ʻana o ka lehulehu, ākea a me ka 
mālama ʻana i nā kumuwaiwai kūlohelohe. Eia naʻe, ua hāʻule ka ʻāina i ka hoʻopaʻa ʻana i 
nā hui hoʻoili kūʻokoʻa a i ʻole nā hui koʻikoʻi e lawelawe a mālama lōʻihi no nā wahi a me nā 
hoʻomaikaʻi. ʻO kēia e hoʻokae ʻia i ka mālama ʻana i nā projects ma ke ʻano ecologically a 
me culturally. Eia kēia ʻāpana o ka Pūʻulu e hiki ke hoʻohana i ke kālā no ka hoʻoikaika i ka 
mālama ʻana. He mea i hiki ke hoʻohana ʻia i ka kūʻai ʻana i ke lāʻau a i ʻole nā mea hana 
mālama e kōkua i nā poʻe mālama e hiki ʻole iā lākou ke hōʻiliʻili i ka mea e pono ai.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala a pau 
me nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo pākuʻi i hāpai 
ʻia, e kele aku i kauai.gov/Charter  
a i ʻole e kāhea i (808) 241-4881.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō872024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi 2024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi
NA KE KALANA O KAUAI KEIA MAU OLELO, KEENA O KA LOIO KALANA
HOOLOLI 4: E pili ana i na bona Surety.
NĪNAU
E hoʻololi ʻia ka Palapala Hoʻohui no ka ʻae ʻana i ka hoʻohana ʻana i nā kulekele ʻinikua no 
kekahi mau limahana a i ʻole nā     limahana a pau e pale i ke Kalana mai ka pohō kālā?
PŪNAHEA
E hāʻawi kēia hoʻololi i ke Kalana i ka maʻalahi i ke kūʻai ʻana i nā inikua a i ʻole nā   palapala 
hōʻoia no ka uhi ʻana i nā limahana o ke kalana a pale i ke kalana mai ka poho kālā a 
ʻaihue paha.
KĀNĀWAI
I kēia manawa, ʻo ka Kaua’i County Charter, ʻAha 19.17 e ʻōlelo ai, he mau kānāwai a me 
nā limahana i hana ʻia e pono e kūkulu ʻia. Ma nā makahiki i hala aku nei, ua hāʻawi ʻia nā 
kānāwai kālā i ka palena pili e nānā i ka pilikia a i ʻole ka hoʻohaumia i ka hana ʻana i nā hana 
o kekahi keʻena. Eia naʻe, ʻaʻole hiki ke loaʻa i kēia manawa nā kānāwai kālā. Hiki i ke kānāwai 
hoʻokele i ka hōʻea i nā limahana a pau ma lalo o ka huikau haʻahaʻa.
ʻO ka hoʻohui ʻana i kekahi ʻāpana o ka ʻAha 19.17 e hāʻawi i ka flexibility i ka County e kūʻai i 
nā polikikala me nā covers, nā mea hoʻonui a me nā kumu kūʻai ma mua o nā kānāwai kālā, 
insurance, a i ʻole nā mea ʻelua. 'O ka pahuhopu o kēia hoʻololi charter e loaʻa ai i ka County 
nā polikikala kūpono, no nā limahana a pau a i ʻole ke kaʻawale ʻana i ka nui o ka pili.
HOOLOLI 5: O nā mea e pili ana i ka noho ʻana o nā mea hou i ke kūlana ma nā 
boards a me nā komisina o ke kūlanakauhale.
NĪNAU
E hoʻololi ʻia ka Palapala Hoʻohui no ka hoʻokumu ʻana i nā kūlana ex-officio no nā ʻōpio ma 
nā Papa a me nā Komisina e hoʻopiha ʻia e nā ʻōpio o ke kula kiʻekiʻe o Kauaʻi?
PŪNAHEA
E ʻae kēia hoʻololi i ka haumāna Kauaʻi e aʻo i ke aupuni a me ke aupuni ma o ke komo ʻana 
ma ke ʻano he lālā ex-officio o nā papa a me nā komisina.
KĀNĀWAI
No ka hoʻolako ʻana i ka leo no nā ʻōpio ma nā Papa a me nā Komisina a me kahi manawa 
hoʻonaʻauao no nā haumāna, e hoʻokumu kēia hoʻololi i nā noho no nā ʻōpio o ke kula kiʻekiʻe 
a i ʻole nā     keiki ma nā papa a me nā komisina ma o ka hoʻohui ʻana i kahi māhele O hou i ka 
Pauku 23.02 o ka Palapala Hoʻohui Kalana o Kauaʻi.
E hoʻopiha ʻia nā kūlana haumāna ex-officio e nā kamaʻāina o Kauaʻi. Hiki i ia mau lālā ke 
komo i nā kūkākūkā komisina akā ʻaʻole lākou e koho balota, ʻaʻole e helu ʻia i ke kōrum, a 
ʻaʻole e komo i nā kau hoʻokō.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala a pau 
me nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo pākuʻi i hāpai 
ʻia, e kele aku i kauai.gov/Charter  
a i ʻole e kāhea i (808) 241-4881.2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
882024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kaona ʻo Honolulu
NA KE KULANAKAUHALE A ME KALANA O HONOLULU KEIA MAU 
OLELO, 'OIHANA O KA HUI HUI
NĪNAU #1
NĪNAU
E pono ana paha e hoʻololi hou ʻia aku Palapala Hoʻokumu ʻIa ʻAha Kūlanakahale i 
Hoʻoponopono Hou ʻIa ʻōlelo kēnā aku i ka ʻaha kūkā a ke kūlanakahale e noi hou aku no 
kekahi pila haʻawina kālā ma muli o ka hoʻopiʻi mau ʻana aku i nā huina uku kāki ʻauhau 
uku māhele ʻāina kūʻai ʻia no ka hoʻolako ʻana aku i kekahi pila haʻawina kālā e noi ʻia 
nei, i hoʻolako ʻia mai ma kahi o hoʻokahi hapalua o hoʻokahi pākeneka o ka huina loaʻa 
mai nā ʻauhau uku māhele ʻāina kūʻai ʻia a ka ʻaha kūkā a ke kūlanakahale i hōʻuluʻulu ʻia 
mai nā hōʻiliʻili loaʻa waihona kālā kau makahiki a me nā kumu waiwai mai nā polokalamu 
kūlanakahale mai, a e hoʻokomo pololei ʻia aku ma ka waihona mālama Haʻawina Kālā 
Hakuloli Mākaukau Hoʻoholu Aniau, no ke kumu o ke kākoʻo ana hoʻi i nā waiwai hoʻokumu a 
me nā papahana i kūkulu ʻia no ka hoʻemi ʻana aku ka nui o nā pilikia mai nā loli aniau, no ka 
hoʻikaika ʻana aku i nā kahua ʻōnaehana hoʻomalele a ke kūlanakauhale a me ko lākou mau 
kaiaulu, a e paipai nui aku nō hoʻi i nā kuleana nohona aloha ʻāina?
Ke kūlana e kū nei
I kēia wā ʻānō, ʻaʻohe waiwai kālā Haʻawina Kālā Hakuloli Mākaukau Hoʻoolu aniau i koe. 
ʻO nā waiwai hoʻokumu a me nā papahana i kūkulu ʻia no ka hoʻēmi ʻana aku ka nui o nā 
pilikia mai nā loli aniau, no ka hōʻikaika ʻana aku i nā kahua ʻōnaehana hoʻomalele a ke 
kūlanakauhale a me ko lākou mau kaiaulu, a e paipai nui aku nō hoi i nā kuleana nohona 
aloha ʻāina, ʻa ia nō hoi nānā hou ʻia nei a e hoʻolako ʻia hoʻi nā waiwai haʻawina kālā i nā 
makahiki a pau e ka ʻAha ʻŌlelo a ke Kūlanakauhale o Honolulu ʻaʻole maopopo ʻinā paha mai 
nā Hoʻolako Waiwai Alakaʻi ʻAha Hoʻoholo a i ʻole mai ka Hoʻolako Waiwai a me Polokalamu 
Kapikala Alakaʻi ʻAha Hoʻoholo.
Inā ʻāpono ʻia kēia noi nei
E hoʻokumu ʻia aku nō hoi kekahi Haʻawina Kālā Hakuloli Mākaukau Hoʻoholu Aniau a e 
hoʻohana ʻia aku nō hoi kēia waiwai lako nei i nā hoʻolako ʻana aku i nā papahana kōkua 
kaupale, nā kōkua kūkulu hou a me ka hoʻolako pū ʻana aku me hoʻonaʻauao loli aniau, a e 
hoʻolako ʻia mai nō hoi ma kahi o hoʻokahi hapalua o hoʻokahi pākeneka mai nā kāki uku 
ʻauhau mai ka ʻoihana kūʻai ʻāina mai. ʻO ka māmalaʻōlelo e ʻōlelo ana, “ma muli o ka hoʻopiʻi 
mau ʻana aku i nā huina uku kāki ʻauhau uku māhele ʻāina kūʻai ʻia no ka hoʻolako ʻana aku i 
kekahi pila haʻawina kālā e noi ʻia nei, ” koe naʻe, he pono ʻole hoʻi ke heluhelu a e manaʻo aku 
no ka hoʻohāiki aku i ka mana kuleana mai ka ʻAhaʻōlelo a ke Kūlanakauhale ʻo Honolulu mai 
a e hoʻopiʻi pū aku i nā uku kāki ʻauhau uku māhele ʻāina i ka makahiki hoʻokahi e hoʻolako 
ʻia aku ai nā waiwa lako haʻawina kālā no ka hoʻolako ʻana aku i ka Haʻawina Kālā Hakuloli 
Mākaukau Hoʻoholu Aniau.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala 
a pau me nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo 
pākuʻi i hāpai ʻia, e kele aku i 
honoluluelections.us .
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō892024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kaona ʻo Honolulu
NA KE KULANAKAUHALE A ME KALANA O HONOLULU KEIA MAU OLELO, 
'OIHANA O KA HUI HUI
NĪNAU #2
NĪNAU
E pono ana paha e hoʻololi hou ʻia aku Palapala Hoʻokumu Kānāwai ʻAha Kūkā i Hoʻoponopono Hou ʻIa 
e hoʻololi ʻia aku no ka hoʻokumu ʻia ʻana aku i ke Keʻena Hoʻomalu Pōʻino Kūlohelohe a e lilo nō hoʻi i 
ʻahahui kūʻokoʻa i alakaʻi ʻia ma lalo o ke māhele mana hoʻokō a ke kūlanakauhale ma ka hoʻokuleana ʻana 
aku i ke Keʻena Hoʻomalu Pōʻino Kūlohelohe ma kekahi hoʻokumu kānāwai kaʻawale mai ka hoʻokumu 
kānāwai a ke kūlanakauhale mai i ʻano like me nā hoʻokumu kānāwai ʻē aʻe i haʻawi ʻia i nā keʻena ʻoihana 
a pau a ke kūlanakauhale, i mea e hoʻākaaka aku ai i ka pono o nā kūlana hana limahana a pau a pēia pū 
me ka luna hoʻokele a me ka hope luna hoʻokele a ke keʻena hoʻomalu pōʻino kūlohelohe e hahai pū aku i 
nā kānāwai hana kīwila, a e hōʻike pū aku i nā kulehana koʻikoʻi e pono ai e loaʻa no ka hiki ʻana ke hai ʻia i 
luna hoʻokele no ke keʻena hoʻomalu pōʻino kūlohelohe, me nā koina keu liʻiliʻi ʻē aʻe.
Ke kūlana e kū nei
I kēia manawa e kū nui, ʻaia ke Keʻena Hoʻolako i nā Kōkua Hoʻomalu (“DEM”) (kapa mua ʻia hoʻi ke 
ʻaha hui keʻena mālama kūpale pono kīwila kanaka) ma lalo o ke kuleana mana hoʻoholo a ka Luna 
Hoʻoponopono a Ke Keʻena Kālaimoku, me hoʻokuleana ʻia hoʻi kekahi mokuna māhele kaʻawale a ma 
lalo hoʻi o ka lākou Haʻawina Kālā ponoʻī e like nō hoi me nā keʻena ʻOihana a pau i loaʻa ma lalo o ke 
Kūlanakauhale. He ʻaha hui kūkaʻawale hoʻi ka ʻaha hui kūkā ʻōlelo aʻo no ka lehulehu ma ka ʻaoʻao 
keʻena mālama kūpale pono kīwila kanaka i ʻike mua ʻia a maopopo leʻa ʻia nō hoi ka hoʻokuleana ʻia ai 
hoʻi ma lalo o ke kuleana mana hoʻoholo a ka Luna Hoʻoponopono a ke Keʻena Kālaimoku.
Kaʻa nō hoi nā kulehana koho ʻana a me ka hoʻomau ʻana aku o ka noho ʻana aku o nā luna 
hoʻoponopono a me ka luna hope hoʻoponopono a ka DEM, e kaʻa nō hoi kēia mau kuleana hana ʻelua 
ma lalo nā lula o ke kōkua pono kīwila o nā kulehana mākaukau hoʻomalu kūpono i koi ʻia. Ke Keʻena 
Kumuwaiwai no nā Kānaka, ka mea hoʻi nānā e hoʻoholo nei i nā polokalamu hoʻolako kōkua pono 
kīwila no ke Kūlanakauhale, hoʻēmi ʻia hoʻi nā kulehana mākaukau hoʻomalu kūpono i koi ʻia no ka 
loaʻa ʻana aku o ia mākaukau kuleana hana Luna Hoʻoponopono e kūpaʻa hoʻi ma hope o nā kulehana 
mākaukau hoʻomalu kūpono loa. Nā ka hui nō hoi e haʻi aku ai hoʻi i nā kuleana hana a kekahi Luna 
Hoʻoponopono a ka DEM, akā, ʻaʻole nā lākou ke kuleana ʻāpono a pono ai e loaʻa nā mākaukau komo 
ma ka liʻiliʻi loa o nā kulehana mākaukau hoʻomalu kūpono i koi ʻia.
Inā ʻāpono ʻia kēia noi nei
E hoʻoponopono hou ʻia aku nō hoi ka Māhele Mana Hoʻokō holoʻokoa a e  haʻawi ʻia aku nō hoi 
i ka Luna Hoʻoponopono DEM i kekahi māhele ponoʻī ma lalo o ke Kānāwai Haʻawina Kālā a ke 
Kūlanakauhale e like me nā Keʻena ʻē aʻe a pau, a e kaʻa nō hoi ka ʻaha hui kūkā ʻōlelo aʻo  no ka 
lehulehu ma loko o ka DEM. E hemahema ʻole nō hoi ka noho luna ʻana o ka luna hoʻoponopono DEM e 
noho luna nei i ka lā 1 o Ianuali, 2025.
E hoʻholo ʻia aku ana nō hoi nā Māhele Hoʻololi Kānāwai i Pili i nēia mau hana nei i mea e hōʻoia aku ai 
i ka hoʻomau ʻia aku ka mālama ʻia ʻana aku o kēia mau kūlana hana no luna  hoʻoponopono a me nā 
luna hope hoʻoponopono a ka DEM ma lalo o nā lula hana kīwila. No laila, e hoʻokaʻawale ʻia nō hoi kēia 
mau kūlana hana no luna  hoʻoponopono a me nā luna hope hoʻoponopono a ka DEM mai nā mana 
kuleana a ka ʻaha hui komikina hoʻolālā ukuhana mai, i hoʻokuleana ʻia nō hoi  me nā kuleana hoʻoholo 
huina uku hana o nā luna hoʻoponopono a me nā luna hope hoʻoponopono a pau ma kēia ʻoihana nei, 
a e pakele aku nō hoi mai nā kūʻē lula hana kīwila i kaʻa ʻia aku hoʻi me nā luna  hoʻoponopono a me nā 
luna hope hoʻoponopono ma keʻena ʻoihana kūʻokoʻa ʻē aʻe a pau.
E hana ʻia aku nō hoi  kekahi hoʻololi ma kēia Haʻawina Kālā nei no ka wehewehe pono ʻana aku i nā 
kuleana hana a ka luna  hoʻoponopono DEM a e hoʻokomo pū aku i nā kuleana hana ʻē aʻe kekahi, 
e like me ka hoʻolako ʻana mai i nā papahana hoʻomaʻamaʻa, nā haʻawina hoʻohana i ka lākou i aʻo 
ai, a me nā pono hoʻolaha no ka lehulehu, a me nā polokalamu i pili hoʻi nā ʻike hoʻoponopono ʻana 
aku i kenā pōpilikia kūhewa. A ʻo ka hope loa hoʻi, e hoʻononia kahi ʻakāka aku nō hoi kēia Haʻawina 
Kālā nei i nā koina kulehana liʻiliʻi loa a no ke DHR e pono ai no ke kūlana hana Luna Hoʻoponopono  
DEM a e hoʻokomo hou mai hoʻi i koina kulehana hou e koi ana i nā ʻike ʻahahui kūlana kiʻekiʻe me nā 
kuleana hoʻomohala a e hoʻolaukaʻi a me ka alakaʻi pū ʻana nō hoi i kekahi pāhana hoʻomalu pōʻino nui 
ʻākea i hiki ai hoʻi ke hoʻohana ʻia aku inā puka wale mai kekahi pōʻino kūlohelohe a i ʻole ma kekahi 
ulia pōpilikia, a ua hiki pū nō hoi ke ʻamo aku e kēia mau kuleana ʻelua o ka alakaʻi ʻana aku i kekahi 
hoʻomalu pōʻino a i ʻole i nā ʻoihana hoʻomalu palekaha no ka ʻāina home.I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala 
a pau me nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo 
pākuʻi i hāpai ʻia, e kele aku i 
honoluluelections.us .
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō
902024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kaona ʻo Honolulu
NA KE KULANAKAUHALE A ME KALANA O HONOLULU KEIA MAU 
OLELO, 'OIHANA O KA HUI HUI
NĪNAU #3
NĪNAU
E pono ana paha e hoʻololi hou ʻia aku Palapala Hoʻokumu Kānāwai a ke Kūlanakauhale i 
Hoʻoponopono Hou ʻia no ka hoʻokumu ʻana aku i kekahi Papa Alakaʻi Mālama Palekana Kai 
Moana no ka nānā hou ʻana aku a e hoʻolako mai hoʻi i nā manaʻo hoʻoholo e pili ana i kekahi 
mau hana e pili ai hoʻi i nā kuleana a ke Keʻena Mālama Palekana Kai Moana a me ke koho 
ʻana aku i kekahi Luna Alakaʻi Keʻena Mālama Palekana Kai Moana?
Ke kūlana e kū nei
I ka hahai ʻana aku ma lalo o kōna māna ʻāpono i haʻi ʻia ma lalo o ka Māhele Kānāwai 4-202 
a ka Palapala Hoʻokumu ʻIa ʻAha Kūlanakahale i Hoʻoponopono Hou ʻIa, a kahi a hoʻokumu 
aku nei ka meia i kekahi māhele keʻena hou o ke Keʻena Mālama Palekana Kai Moana 
(“OSD”) i ʻaha hui kūkaʻawale i kaʻawale hoʻi mai Keʻena Hoʻomalu Pōʻino Kūlohelo i kupu 
mai ai hoʻi kēia. Hoʻoholo ʻia nō hoi kēia keʻena OSD e kekahi luna hoʻoholo keʻena mālama 
palekana kai moana i koho ʻia a e hoʻoku pū ʻia e ka meia.
Inā ʻāpono ʻia kēia noi nei
Ma kēia hoʻoholo ʻia ʻana e hoʻololi hou ʻia aku ai ka Hoʻolako Haʻawina Kālā no ke kūkulu 
ʻana aku i kekahi ʻaha hui komikina mālama palekana kai moana o ka OSD me ʻelima mau lālā 
i hoʻokuleana ʻia hoʻi lākou me ka mana ʻāpono, ma waho aʻe o nā kuleana ʻē aʻe, e hiki nō 
hoi iā lākou ke komo pū aku ma nā kūkā mālama moʻohelu kālā kau makahiki a ka hui OSD 
e nānā hou i ka holomua a ke keʻena OSD a e waiho aku i kekahi manaʻo kōkua e hōʻikaika 
aku ai i ia keʻena, e hoʻoholo i kekahi hōʻike ana kaumakahiki o nā kuleana lawelawe hana a 
ka luna hoʻoholo mālama palekana kai moana e waiho aku i nā manaʻo kōkua hoʻoikaika i 
ka luna hoʻoholo mālama palekana kai moana me nā manaʻo kūpono a me nā manaʻo kōkua 
hoʻopololei lawelawe ʻana a e waiho pū aku me ka Luna Hoʻoponopono OSD, a e hoʻihoʻi pū i 
kekahi palapala holomua i ka meia a me ka ʻahaʻōlelo i loaʻa ma nā papahana OSD.
ʻO kekahi mea hou aku, e hoʻololi ʻia ana ka inoa kūlana ʻoihana mai ka “luna hoʻoholo” OSD 
a e kuapo ʻia ana he “alakaʻi"  OSD. E hoʻonoho ʻia aku ana ke alakaʻi OSD e  ka ʻaha ʻōlelo 
mālama palekana kai moana a e hiki wale nō hoi ke hoʻopau ʻia aku ma hope mai o ka loaʻa 
ʻana aku o nā kumu e hoʻokuʻu ʻia aku ai a e loaʻa pū aku nō hoi kekahi ʻaha kūkā i mua o 
ka ʻaha ʻōlelo mālama palekana kai moana. E mau ana hoʻi ka noho luna hoʻoholo OSD a ka 
meia i hai mua aku nei a e hoʻomau aku ana i kāna hana ma hope mai o ka lā 31 o Kekemapa, 
2024, a e mau ana no hoʻi kōna alakaʻi ʻana aku i luna hoʻoholo OSD a i ka wā e loaʻa aku ai i 
ka ʻaha ʻōlelo mālama palekana kai moana kekahi pani nona.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala 
a pau me nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo 
pākuʻi i hāpai ʻia, e kele aku i 
honoluluelections.us .
2024 ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE KOHO PĀLOKA
 Koho Pāloka Laulā Wale NōKoho Pāloka Laulā Wale Nō91Hoʻololi Palapala 2024 Nā Hoʻololi ʻŌlelo Pākuʻi I Ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Kaona ʻo Honolulu
NA KE KULANAKAUHALE A ME KALANA O HONOLULU KEIA MAU 
OLELO, 'OIHANA O KA HUI HUI
NĪNAU #4
NĪNAU
E pono ana paha e hoʻololi hou ʻia aku Palapala Hoʻokumu Kānāwai a ke Kūlanakauhale i 
Hoʻoponopono Hou e pili ana i nā huina uku a nā Lālā ʻAha Kūkā a e hoʻololi ʻia aku hoʻi e 
hoʻokaupalena ʻia aku ai ka huina uku hana ma kahi o 5% o ka makahiki, a e ʻāpono ʻia hoʻi 
ka loli like ʻana aku o ka lākou nei huina uku hana me ko nā limahana a ke Kūlanakauhale i 
hoʻoholo ʻia ma kekahi māhele ʻaelike uku hana a ke Kūlanakauhale, a e wehe aku nō hoʻi i ka 
māhele kuleana mana ʻāpono koho no ke kūʻē ponoʻī no ka loaʻa ʻana mai o kekahi hoʻopiʻi 
huina uku i loaʻa mua i ka ʻAhaʻōlelo?
Ke kūlana e kū nei
Wahi a ka Palapala Hoʻokumu o ke Aupuni, Māhele 3-122 i Hoʻololi hou ʻia, na ke komikina uku 
(“Komikina”) e hoʻoholo aku i ka nui uku no kekahi mau kūlana hana aupuni, a me nā kūlana 
hana ʻAha Kūkā Aupuni. E kū like kēia mau uku me nā loina o “ka lawa pono o ka nui uku no 
ka nui hana” a me “ka mālama ʻana i ka pilina o ka noʻonoʻo pono ʻana i ka uku hana o nā 
limahana ʻē aʻe o ke Aupuni.” E ʻāpono a hōʻole paha ka ʻAha Kūkā Aupuni i kekahi māhele o 
ko ke Komikina ʻōlelo hoʻoholo, me kekahi ʻano māhele e pili hoʻi ana i ko ka ʻAha Kūkā uku 
iho nō.
Inā ʻāpono ʻia kēia noi nei
E hoʻololi ʻia ana ka Palapala Hoʻokumu e koi aku i ka hoʻopuka ʻana aku a ke Komikina i 
kekahi manaʻo hoʻoholo no ka uku o ka ʻAha Kūkā Aupuni a e hoʻokumu ʻia ana hoʻi kekahi 
manaʻo hoʻoholo aku e hoʻokumu ai i ka uku no nā kūlana hana ʻē aʻe.
Me ka noʻonoʻo ʻana i nā uku o ka ʻAha Kūkā Aupuni, e kaupalena ʻia ka hoʻonui ʻana i nā uku 
he 5% o ka makahiki, a he koina ka “like a like ma ka nui kūpono” i ka ʻawelike o nā loli hou I 
ka huinanui uku o ka makahiki no nā māhele like ʻole o ke Aupuni. ʻAʻole hoʻi e mana ana ka 
ʻAha Kūkā ma ka ʻāpono a hōʻole ʻana paha i ko ke Komikina manaʻo hoʻoholo e pili ana i ko 
lākou uku iho.
I mea e loaʻa ai kēia palapala 
a pau me nā hoʻololi ʻōlelo 
pākuʻi i hāpai ʻia, e kele aku i 
honoluluelections.us .
Kāhea iā mākou
No ka ʻike e pili ana i ke kāinoa ʻana i ke koho pāloka,
e hoʻokaʻaʻike i kāu Māhele Koho Kalana.
Kalana ʻo Hawaiʻi (808) 961-8277
Kalana ʻo Maui (808) 270-7749
Kalana ʻo Kauaʻi (808) 241-4800
Kūlanakauhale a Kalana ʻo Honolulu (808) 768-3800
No ka 'ike hou aku no ke koho pāloka, 
e kelepona i ke Keena Koho Pāloka.
Kelepona: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Kāki ʻole: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Kāki ʻole TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Leka uila: elections@hawaii.gov
Pūnaewele: elections.hawaii.gov
ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE ALAKAʻI NO KA POʻE 
KOHO PĀLOKAKOHO PĀLOKA20242024  Hawaiʻi HawaiʻiLaulā Wale NōLaulā Wale Nō

--- Text from PDF (https://digitalvoterguide.hawaii.gov/wp-content/themes/hawaii-elections/assets/pdf/general_digital_voter_guide_ilo.pdf) ---
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral1
GIYA TI GIYA TI 
BOTANTEBOTANTE20242024  Hawaii HawaiiHeneralHeneral2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
202
MENSAHE MANIPOD ITI 
MANGIDADAULO NGA 
OPISYAL TI ELEKSION
03
ANIA TI GIYA TI BOTANTE?
03
MARKAAM TI 
KALENDARIOM
03
PANAGREHISTRO TI 
BOTANTE
04
PANAGBOTOS BABAEN ITI 
SURAT
04
PANANGKOMPLETO ITI 
SURAT A BALOTAM
04
PANANGISUBLI ITI SURAT 
A BALOTAM
04
PANANGPROSESO ITI 
BALOTAM
04
SUBAYBAYAM TI BALOTAM
04
KITAEN DAGITI RESULTA 
TI ELEKSIONGIYA TI GIYA TI 
BOTANTEBOTANTE20242024  Hawaii Hawaii
AlohaMENSAHE MANIPOD ITI MANGIDADAULO NGA OPISYAL TI ELEKSION  
Iti nagan ti Estado iti Hawaii, Opisina ti Eleksion, magagaran kami a mangipresenta iti 
2024 Giya ti Botante! Daytoy napateg a pamataudan ket damo kadagiti botante iti Hawaii, 
naaramid gapo iti pannakaipasa ti Act 115 kabayatan ti 2023 Sesion ti Pagpandayan 
Linteg. Dios ti agngina kadagiti amin a nangitandudo para ken nakitinnulong iti 
pannakaaramid daytoy.
Kas maysa a rehistrado a botante, namnamaem a maawatmo ti balotam iti koreo iti 
agarup 18 nga aldaw sakbay iti Aldaw ti Eleksion. Siguraduem a kitaen a ti panagrehistro 
ti botante ket agdama tapno masiguro a maipatulod ti balotam. Nu immakarka wenno 
nasukatan iti address mo iti koreo manipod iti napalabas nga Eleksion, masapul nga 
i-update mo ti panagrehistrom. Kasta met, maipalagip a nasken a maawat dagiti balota, 
saan a postmarked, iti 7:00 PM iti Aldaw ti Eleksion.
Mangnamnama kayo a nakakomitkami para iti naannad, natalged, ken transparent 
nga eleksion para kadagiti residente ti Hawaii ken agyaman kami iti pannakipasetyo iti 
demokratiko a proseso.
Toy sipupudno,
Scott T. Nago
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral3
04
DAGITI SENTRO TI 
SERBISIO ITI BOTANTE
05
AKSESIBOL A 
PANAGBOTOS
05
PANAGGASTOS ITI 
KAMPANYA
05
KOMISION TI ETIKA
06
DAGITI KARBENGAM ITI 
PANAGBOTOS
06
TULONG ITI PAGSASAO
07
DIBISYON TI ELEKSION ITI 
COUNTY
07
KONTAKEN DAKAMI
08-78
DAGITI PALAWAG TI 
KANDIDATO
79-91
DAGITI SINGASING NGA 
ENMIENDA
ANIA TI GIYA TI BOTANTE?
Ti Giya ti Botante ket inpablaak ti Estado iti Hawaii, Opisina ti Eleksion tapno masiguro nga addaanka iti 
impormasyon maipanggep kadagiti proseso ti eleksion ken dagiti pagbabalubalan a pagbotosam. Daytoy 
a giya ket addaan iti impormasyon iti panagrehistro ti botante, napateg a petsa, ken dagiti pamataudan kas 
iti no kasano a subaybayam ti balotam ken aksesibol a panagbotos. Kanayonna, nagurnong ti Opisina ti 
Eleksion kadagiti palawag ken ladawan nga insumite dagiti kandidato nga agkandidato para iti posision.
Kasano a naurnong dagiti palawag ken ladawan?
Amin a kandidato ket addaan iti oportunidad nga agipaay iti ababa a palawag ken ladawan nu agpilada 
nga agkandidato para iti posision. Ti palawag ket nasken a saan a nababbaba ngem 150 a sao, ken 
maidiaya kadagiti kandidato dagiti sumaganad a giya: Tratoem iti palawagmo a kas resume; ibagam ti 
gandatmo ken agbalin a positibo; panunutem nu ania ti kayat mo nga aramiden nu mabotosan ka; ken 
liklikam ti mangbabalaw kadagti kasupangil.
Dagiti palawag ken ladawan ket naipablaak iti giya kas iti inted dagiti kandidato. Kasta met a naipablaak 
dagiti nagan ti kandidato iti balota, legal a nagan, partido iti pulitika, ken impormasyon a pangkontakan. 
Nu saan a mangted ti kandidato ti palawag weno ladawan, iti sasao nga 'Awan ti Naited a Palawag’ wenno 
‘Awan ti Ladawan a Naited’ ket makita iti abay ti impormasyonda a kandidato.
MARKAAM TI KALENDARIOM
2024 Primary Election
• Oktubre 18: Biruken ti pakete ti balotam iti Eleksion Heneral a maipatulod babaen iti surat.
• Oktubre 22: Dagiti Sentro ti Serbisio iti Botante ket nakalukat agingga iti Aldaw ti Eleksion para iti 
panagrehistro ti botante ken aksesibol iti personal a panagbotos. Kitaen iti elections.hawaii.gov para 
kadagiti lugar, petsa, ken oras.
• Oktubre 28: Deadline ti panagrehistro nga agbotos babaen iti papel nga Aplikasion ti Panagrehistro ti 
Botante para iti Eleksion Heneral agingga iti 4:30 PM.
• Oktubre 29: Deadline ti panagkiddaw iti absentee a balota agingga iti 4:30 PM.
• Nobyembre 5: Eleksion Heneral. Nasken a maawat dagiti balota ti botante agingga iti 7:00 PM.
PANAGREHISTRO 
TI BOTANTE
Sino iti mabalin nga agrehistro tapno agbotos?
Nasken a maysa ka nga umili iti U.S., residente iti 
Hawaii, ken saan a nabababa ngem 18 iti tawen 
mo. Nu 16 ti tawen mo, mabalin ka nga ag-pre-
register tapno makabotoska ken awtomatiko a 
mairehistroka nu dumanon iti 18 ti tawenmo. 
Ania ti kaalistoan a wagas ti panagrehistro?
Online! Babaen iti Lisensiya nga Agmaneho iti 
Hawaii wenno iti Hawaii State ID nga addaan ka, 
agrehistro ka iti mano laeng a minutos iti elections.
hawaii.gov. Nu awananka ti Hawaii ID, adda ti 
mabalin nga iprinta nga aplikasyon iti website 
wenno kadagiti post office ken library. 
Kasanuk nga ideklara ti 
nakaikappengak apartido?
Mapansin mo a nu agrehistroka nga agbotos, saan 
a madamag nu ania a partido ti nakaikappengam. 
Saan a kamali dayta. Saan nga ideklara dagiti 
botante ti Hawaii ti nakaikappengan a partido iti 
pulitika nu agrehistroda nga agbotos.Nasken kadi nga agrehistroak 
nga agbotos iti tinawen?
Saan, saan a nasken nga agrehistroka nga 
agbotos sakbay iti tunggal eleksion. Ngem 
responsableka a mangpatalinaed a mabalin ka 
nga agbotos. Nu iti nagan mo, pagnaedam, wenno 
pagituludan iti suratmo ket nagbaliw iti baet dagiti 
eleksion, masapulmo nga i-update ti bukodmo a 
panagrehistro ti botante. Agpannuray dagiti opisyal 
iti eleksion iti agdama a panagrehistro ti botante 
tapno ammoda nu ania a balota ti isaganada 
para kenka ken nu sinno ti pangipatuludanda. 
Kanayunen a kitaen iti panagrehistro ti botante iti 
rugi ti tunggal tawen ti eleksion! Kitaen ken i-update 
ti pannakarehistrom iti elections.hawaii.gov.
Dinno ti pagbotosak?
Dumanon iti balotam kenka! Ti Hawaii ket estado 
a babaen iti surat ti panagbotos, kayatna a saoen 
a kas maysa a rehistrado a botante, awtomatiko 
a maawatmo ti balotam babaen iti koreo tunggal 
eleksion. Iti panagbotos babaen iti surat, saan laeng 
a maysa nga aldaw ti eleksion tayo, iti panawen ti 
panagbotosmo ket mangrugi apaman a dumanun ti 
balotam iti mailbox mo. Adda pay sabali nga opsion 
a nailadawan iti daytoy a giya. Kas kuma, mabalin 
nga agbotos ka a mismo iti sentro ti serbisio para iti 
botante, nga addaan kadagiti aparato ti aksesibol 
a panagbotos.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
4
PANAGBOTOS BABAEN ITI SURAT
Dagitoy ti nasken a maammuam iti panagbotos babaen iti surat.
Iti balotam iti koreo:
• Awtomatiko a maipatulod iti mailing address mo
• Dumanon 18 nga aldaw sakbay iti Aldaw ti Eleksion
• Masapulna ti pirmam tapno maibilang
• Nasken a maawat sakbay iti 7:00 PM iti Aldaw ti Eleksion
Kasanu nu saan ko nga naawat iti balotak?
Nu saan mo a naawat iti balotam, kontakem iti Dibisyon ti Eleksion iti County nga ayan mo ket ikkandaka iti 
kasukat ti balota.
Kasanu nu agkamaliak iti balotak?
Nu agkamalika, mapukaw, wenno madadaelmo ti balotam, agdawatka iti kasukat a balota manipod iti 
Dibisyon ti Eleksion iti County nga ayanmo.
Mabalin kadi nga agbaliw iti panunotko kalpasan a naisublik iti balota?
Saan. Nu naisublimon iti balotam a nabotosan ken naawaten daytoy ti Dibison ti Eleksion iti County nga 
ayanmo, maibilang daytoy a nakabotos, ken saan kan a makaawat iti baro a balota.
Kasanuak a makabotos nu addaak iti adayo iti panawen ti eleksion?
Nu adayoka iti panawen ti eleksion, mabalinka a dumawat iti absentee a balota a maipatulod iti sabali nga 
address. Kompletuem lang iti Aplikasyon iti Absentee a Balota ken ibagam nu dinno ti pangipatuludanda 
iti balotam.
PANANGKOMPLETO ITI SURAT A BALOTAM
1. Sakbay nga agbotos, repasoem ti agsumbangir ti balota. Tapno agbotos, gudugudan ti kahon a kayatmo 
babaen iti nangisit wenno asul a pagsurat.
2. Kalpasan ti panagbotos, ipanmo ti balotam iti secrecy sleeve. Kalpasanna, ipanmo ti secrecy sleeve iti 
return envelope.
3. Basaen ti palawag a kumpirmasion ken pirmaan ti return envelope. Nasken a pirmaam ti return 
envelope tapno mabilang ti balotam.
PANANGISUBLI ITI SURAT A BALOTAM
Babaen iti Koreo:  Ikabil mo iti nabotosan a balotam iti koreo nga usar iti pre-addressed, postage-paid a 
return envelope. Laglagipem dagiti oras ti panagitulod ti USPS tapno masiguro a maawat daytoy sakbay iti 
naituding nga oras.
Babaen iti Drop Box ti Balota: Itennagmo iti nabotosan a balotam iti lugar ti drop box ti balota iti 
county nga ayanmo. Kitaen iti elections.hawaii.gov para kadagiti lugar, petsa, ken oras.
Nasken a maawat ti Dibisyon ti Eleksion iti County nga ayan mo dagiti nabotosan a balota sakbay iti 7:00 PM 
iti Aldaw ti Eleksion tapno mabilang daytoy.
PANANGPROSESO ITI BALOTAM
Nu naawaten ti return envelope mo, ma-scan iti barcode iti daytoy. Iti naisang-sangayan a barcode ti 
mangitulok kadagiti opisyal a mansubaybay iti balotam ken maliklikan nga adda dagiti agbotos iti ad-adu 
ngem maysa a daras.
Maidilig ti pirma iti return envelope iti pirma iti rekordmo nga agbotos. Nu saan a masigurado dagiti opisyal 
daytoy, mapakaammuanka nga isimpa daytoy a problema iti sumaruno ng lima nga aldaw ti negosyo 
kalpasan iti panagbobotos.
Nu agpada dagiti pirmam, natalged a maipan ti balotam iti sentro ti pagbilangan. Iti sentro ti pagbilangan, 
maiproseso iti nabotosan a balotam babaen kadagiti scanner nga agbilang iti botos.SUBAYBAYAM 
TI BALOTAM
Ag-sign-up iti alerto iti panangsubaybay iti 
balota babaen iti text, email, wenno tawag 
iti elections.hawaii.gov. Ipakaammo daytoy a 
serbisio nu ayan ti balotam ken agipatulod 
iti palagip kasta met ti alerto nu umadanin 
ti naituding a petsa iti pannakaleppas ti 
panangisubli iti balota.
KITAEN DAGITI RESULTA 
TI ELEKSION
Kalpasan ti 7:00 PM iti Aldaw ti Eleksion, 
mabalin mo a rugian a makita dagiti resulta iti 
eleksion iti elections.hawaii.gov. Dagiti resulta 
ket patuloy nga agbaliw agingga a mabilang 
amin a naawat a balota.
Mabalin a namnamaem iti panagruar 
dagiti sumaruno a resulta:
• Iti Report 1 ket mairuar kalpasan nga 
agserra dagiti sentro ti serbisio iti botante iti 
Aldaw ti Eleksion.
• Iti Report 2 ket naituding a mairuar iti 10:30 
PM iti Aldaw ti Eleksion.
• Ti Maudi a Report iti Aldaw ti Eleksion ket 
mairuar nu makita ti napirmaan ti Dibisyon 
ti Eleksion ti County nga ayanmo dagiti 
return envelope ken maiproseo iti sentro ti 
pagbilangan.
• Ti Maudi a Report iti Panagbobotos ket 
mairuar kalpasan ti 5 nga aldaw ti negosyo 
a voter signature curing period.
DAGITI SENTRO TI 
SERBISIO ITI BOTANTE
Para iti pareho nga aldaw ti panagrehistro ken 
panagbotos, ken aksesibol a panagbotos.
Kitaen iti elections.hawaii.gov para kadagiti 
lugar, petsa, ken oras.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral5
AKSESIBOL A PANAGBOTOS
Available dagiti aksesibol nga opsion ti panagbotos. Panunutem nu ania a wagas ti panagbotos ti makasabet kadagiti kasapulam.
1. Agbotos iti pagtaengam babaen iti papel a balota.
• Awtomatiko a pannakaipatulod iti koreo.  Dumanon mismo ti pakete ti balotam iti address mo iti koreo.
• Mabalin ka nga agpatulong.  Nu ti panagrepaso, panangmarka, ken panangisublim iti balotam ket marigatan ka, mabalinmo ti dumawat iti 
tulong. Mabalinka nga agpatulong iti tao a komportableka a mangbasa iti balotam, mangmarka iti kayat mo, ken agbalin a saksim nu saanmo a 
mapirmaan ti return envelope a siksika laeng. Ti employer wenno ahente ti union ket saan a mabalin a pagpatulungan.
• Maited ti nabayadanen a return envelope.  Isublim iti balotam babaen iti koreonga usar ti naited a return envelope. Awan iti kanayunan a 
postage a masapol.
Tapno makabotos iti pagtaengam babaen iti papel a balota: Iti panagrehistrom nga agbotos, awtomatiko a makaawatka iti koreo a balota 
tunggal eleksion. Awan ti kasapulan a sabali a kiddaw.
2. Agbotos iti pagtaengan babaen iti aksesibol nga elektroniko a balota. Nu addaanka iti print disability ken saanka a makabasa iti 
standard a printa, mabalinmo ti agbotos babaen iti elektroniko a balota.
• Nalaka a panangipatulod iti e-mail. Ti elektroniko a balotam ket natalged a maipatulod iti e-mail address mo. Ti mismo a balota ket saan a 
konektado iti Internet ken elektroniko laeng a maipasa.
• Maitunos kadagiti personal assistive nga aparato. Usarem dagiti at-home-assistive device mo tapno makitam ken mamarkaam ti balotam 
a sisika laeng. Ti elektroniko a balota ket maitunos iti amin a major a browser, kinadakkel ti aparato (kasta met dagiti smartphone ken tablet), ken 
personal assistive device.
Tapno agbotos babaen iti aksesibol nga elektroniko a balota:  Nu agrehistroka nga agbotos, markaan ti pagpilian nga agdawat iti 
elektroniko a balota ken umannugot a masabetmo dagiti kasapulan. Nasken nga itedmo ti email address mo.
3. Agbotos iti sentro ti serbisio babaen iti ballot marking device.  Nu saan mo a mamarkaan ti balota babaen iti imam ken bolpen, mapan iti 
sentro ti serbisio tapno mausar mo iti aksesibol a ballot marking device, V erity Touch Writer.
• Napasayaat tampok ti pannakaakses. Ti V erity Touch Writer ket itulokna a piliem dagiti kayatmo iti balota a siksika laeng babaen iti 
elektroniko nga interface. Dagiti tampok ti aparato ket karaman ti dakkel a touchscreen nga interface, maipusipos a pilid a console tapno maigaraw ti 
balota, pannakaitunos iti tactile a switch ken “sip and puff” nga aparato, masukatan a kinadakkel ti teksto ken contrast ti screen tapno mas makita, ken 
mabalin ti headphone tapno ma-access iti audio.
• Dagiti aksesibol a makina ket adda iti intero nga estado.  Amin dagiti sentro ti serbisio iti botante ket addaan iti V erity Touch Writer. 
Nakalukat dagiti sentro ti serbisio iti botante agingga iti 10 nga aldaw ti negosyo agingga iti Aldaw ti Eleksion, tapno addaanka iti adu a tiempo a 
mangbisita iti maysa a lugar nga agbotos.
• Saan nga elektroniko a panagbotos. Ti V erity Touch Writer ket maysa laeng nga elektroniko nga aparato a mangtulong kenka a mangkita ken 
mangmarka iti balotam. Kalpasan ti panagbotos, adda iprintam a papel a balota a mai-scan tapno mabilang daytoy. Ti naiprinta a balota ket pareho 
nga usaren ti amin a botante iti man sentro ti serbisio para iti botante wenno babaen iti koreo.
Tapno agbotos babaen iti ballot marking device: Mapan iti sentro ti serbisio para iti botante iti county nga ayanmo. Umuna a panagrehistro 
sakbay ti panagbisitam ket mabalin a mangkissay iti oras ti panaguraymo.
PANAGGASTOS ITI KAMPANYA
Tapno makita dagiti naitulong ken nagastos dagiti kandidato, kitaen ti website ti Komision ti Panaggastos Iti Kampanya iti 
csc.hawaii.gov/CFSPublic/menu/.
KOMISION TI ETIKA
Tapno makita dagiti inpakita dagiti kandidato ti estado a kwarta, kitaen iti website ti Komision ti Etika iti hawaiiethics.my.site.com/public/s/.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
6DAGITI KARBENGAM ITI PANAGBOTOS
Ti karbengam iti kinasikreto ti botosmo
• Ti botosmo ket anonimo ken saan a maikonektar kenka wenno ti panagrehistro ti botante. Awan iti 
aniaman a rekord a maidulin nu kasanu ka a nagbotos iti eleksion.
• Dagiti botante iti Hawaii ket saan a madawat nga ideklarada ti kayatda a partido ti politiko nu 
agrehistroda nga agbotos. Saan nga agamad wenno agidulin iti rekord dagiti opisina ti eleksion ti 
Hawaii iti nakikappengam a partido.
Ti karbengam para kadagiti serbisio iti Aldaw ti Eleksion
• Nu saan ka pay a nakarehistro para iti Aldaw ti Eleksion, mabalinmo ladta nga agrehistro iti sentro ti 
serbisio para iti botante iti county nga ayanmo. Mapalubusanka nga agbotos mismo para iti dayta nga 
eleksion ken makaawatka iti balota iti koreo para kadagiti eleksion iti masakbayan.
• Nu nakapilaka, agtalinaedka iti linia. Agserra ti panagbotos iti 7:00 PM iti Aldaw ti Eleksion, nu 
nakapilaka nga agbotos iti sentro ti serbisio para iti botante wenno tapno agitennag iti balota iti drop 
box ti balota, mapalubusanka a mangaramid iti dayta. Markaan dagiti opisyal iti murdong ti pila, ket 
saanka a maitulok a mangituloy nu umikkatka iti pila.
• Mabalin a dumawatka iti provisional a balota nu saan mo a makumpirma ti panagrehistro ti botante. 
Itulok ti provisional a balota nga agbotoska iti balota a mabalin wenno saan a maibilang kalpasan a 
kumpirmaen ti Dibisyon ti Eleksion iti County nga ayanmo ti impormasyon ti panagrehistro ti botante.
Ti karbengam nga agrehistro nga agbotos
• Nu mapadpadasam iti kinaawan ti pagnaedan wenno awan ti tradisyonal nga address ti pagnaedam, 
mabalinka latta nga agrehistro nga agbotos. Nu agrehistro ka, iladawam ti pagnanaedam - kas kuma 
iti kalsada wennno landmark, tapno makatulong kadagiti opisyal ti eleksion a mangammo nu dinno ti 
distrito a pagbotosam. Mabalin nga idiyaya dagiti opisyal ti eleksion ti panangigiya kadagiti opsion a 
wagas ti panagbotos kas kuma iti panagbotosmo a mismo iti sentro ti serbisio para iti botante.
• Mentenarem ti karbengam nga agrehistro ken agbotos nu maysaka a pre-trial detainee, naka-
probation, wenno naparolan kalpasam ti pannakabalod. Nu nasentensiaanka gapo iti krimen, saanka 
a mabalin nga agbotos bayat ti pannakabalodmo, ngem, agsubli ti karbengam nga agbotos nu naka-
probation wenno naparolanka.
Ti karbengam nga agbotos bayat ti kinaawanmo iti Hawaii
• Nu temporaryo nga awanka iti pagnaedam iti Hawaii, mabalinka nga agdawat iti absentee a balota a 
maipatulod iti sabali nga address babaen iti panangitedmo iti Aplikasyon iti Absentee a Balota.
• Nu aktiboka nga agserserbi iti militar, asawa wenno dependentnaka ti aktibo nga agserserbi iti militar, 
wenno maysa a nga umili ti U.S. nga agnanaed iti ballasiw-taaw, mabalinka nga agbotos iti eleksion 
ti Hawaii. Babaen iti panangkompletom iti Federal Post Card nga Aplikasyon, maipatulod ti balotam 
kenka iti ballasiw-taaw.
Ti karbengam para iti tulong iti pagsasao
• Dagiti materyal para iti panagbotos ket maipatarus iti Chinese, Olelo Hawaii, Ilocano, ken Tagalog, ken 
daduma pay a tulong iti pagsasao ket mabalin babaen iti pannakiuman iti Opisina ti Eleksion.
Ti Karbengam iti aksesibol a panagbotos ken tulong
• Nu kasapulam iti tulong para iti proseso ti panagbotos, agraman ti panagrehistro nga agbotos, wenno 
panangkita, panagmarka, ken panangisubli iti balotam, mabalinka nga agpatulong. Napateg a lagipem 
a tapno masalaknibanka iti panangbuteng ti botante, saanka a mabalin nga umawat iti tulong manipod 
iti kandidato nga adda iti balota, iti agipapaay iti trabahom wenno ahente ti union a nakipasetam.
• Dagiti aksesibol a panagbotos nga opsion ket mabalin a pribado ken siksika laeng. Dagiti botante a 
masakit ket mabalin nga agdawat iti elektroniko a balota wenno mapan iti sentro ti serbisio para iti 
botante tapno mausarda iti aksesibol a panagbotos ken mangmarka iti balota da.TULONG ITI PAGSASAO
Cast your
vote in
comfort. 
Your ballot comes to you.Mark your
calendar.
Oct 18 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your General Election ballot     
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Oct 22 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation.
Oct 28 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the General Election.
Nov 5 | General Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Jul 23 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your Primary Election ballot      
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Jul 29 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation. 
Jul 31 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the Primary Election.
Aug 10 | Primary Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Language assistance
Contact us如需翻譯後的選舉材料或語言協助，請聯絡選舉辦公室。
For information about registering to vote, 
contact your County Elections Division.
County of Hawaii (808) 961-8277
County of Maui (808) 270-7749
County of Kauai (808) 241-4800
City & County of Honolulu (808) 768-3800
For additional voting information, contact the 
Ofﬁce of Elections.
Phone: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Toll Free: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Toll Free TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Email: elections@hawaii.gov
Website: elections.hawaii.gov2024 Primary Election 
2024 General ElectionNeed to vote absentee? 
If you will be away from home during the 
elections, you can request your ballot be sent 
to an alternate address. Complete an Absentee 
Ballot Application and submit it to your County 
Elections Division no later than 7 days before 
the election. Applications are available at 
elections.hawaii.gov.
Prefer to vote in person? 
Voter Service Centers offer in-person accessible 
voting and voter registration, and are open 10 
business days before and on Election Day. For 
locations and hours, go to elections.hawaii.gov.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral7Dibisyon ti Eleksion iti County
County iti Hawaii
25 Aupuni Street
Room 1502
Hilo, Hawaii 96720
(808) 961-8277
hiloelec@hawaiicounty.gov
County iti Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
(808) 270-7749
county.clerk@mauicounty.us
County iti Kauai
4386 Rice Street
Room 101
Lihue, Hawaii 96766
(808) 241-4800
elections@kauai.gov
Siyudad ken County ti Honolulu
530 South King Street
Room 100
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
(808) 768-3800
elections@honolulu.gov
Kontaken Dakami
Opisina ti Eleksion
802 Lehua Avenue
Pearl City, Hawaii 96782
(808) 453-VOTE (8683)
elections@hawaii.gov
Awan Bayadna: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Awan Bayadna TTY: 1-800-345-5915Disclaimer:  Dagiti palawag kadagiti 
sumaruno a panid ket inpaay dagiti 
kandidato ken saan pay a nakita para iti 
kinaumisona. Dagiti kapanunutan ken 
opinyon nga inbaga dagiti kandidato 
ket bagida laeng ken saan a nasken nga 
irepresentaran dagitoy ti kapanunutan ken 
opinyon ti Opisina ti Eleksion.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral8Presidente ken Bise Presidente - Partido para iti Socialismo ken Liberalismo (SL)
 Ni Karina Garcia ket maysa a Chicana organizer ken edukador a makilablaban para 
iti nasaysayaat a masakbayan sipud pay idi agtawen iti 17 . Kalpasan a nakaawat iti naan-anay 
nga eskolarsip idiay Columbia, nangisuro ni Karina iti matematika kas mannursuro iti haiskul. 
Timmulong isuna a nangidaulo kadagiti kampania para kadagiti kalintegan iti aborsion, 
kalintegan dagiti trabahador iti pagtaengan, naan-anay a kalintegan para kadagiti imigrante, ken 
pannakakansela ti utang dagiti estudiante. Kalikaguman daytoy a kampania ti naan-anay a baro 
nga ekonomia nga agserbi kadagiti mangmangged a klase, saan a dagiti bilionario. Ti gobierno 
dagiti mangmangged a klase ket mabalin a mangpennek kadagiti kasapulan dagiti tao – kas iti 
panangaramid iti libre a taripato ti salun-at, libre nga edukasion iti amin a lebel, libre a taripato 
iti ubing, disente a balay, ken karbengan iti konstitusion ti trabaho iti unyon. Agkandidato da 
Claudia ken Karina iti Partido para iti Socialismo ken Liberasion (PSL), a makilablaban para iti 
insigida a kasapulan dagiti napanglaw ken agtatrabaho a tattao ken para iti baro a kagimongan 
– socialismo. Daytoy a kampania ket maipapan iti nalablabes ngem eleksion laeng, maipapan 
daytoy iti panangbangon iti tignay ti masa nga agwaywayas manipud iti dua a partido a pro-
corporate.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Karina  Garcia 
Partido para iti Sosialismo ken 
Pannakawayawaya
Bise Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Naisubmitir ti joint statement para kadagiti kandidato iti Presidente ken Bise 
Presidente.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Lauren M. Onak 
Partido ti Panagkaykaysa
Bise Presidente
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Ni Mike ter Maat ket addaan iti naballigi a karera iti ekonomia a naipaganetget babaen 
ti trabahona iti Office of Management and Budget iti White House ken panagisuro iti unibersidad. 
Bayat ti kaaddana idiay Washington DC, intandudona dagiti nawaywaya a merkado ti pinansial 
a serbisio. Nagserbi ni Mike ter Maat kas opisial ti pulisia ti Broward County FL iti 11.5 a tawen. 
Nakitana a mismo ti pannakasapul kadagiti dakkel a reporma iti pannakaipatungpal ti linteg, 
karaman kadagitoy, a mangisilpo iti sueldo iti panagaramid ken panangsukat iti kualipikado nga 
imunidad iti personal liability a seguro. Ipaganetget ti foreign policy ni Ter Maat ti etika ken saan a 
panangibabaet babaen iti panangliklik iti tulong ti ganggannaet ken pannakibiang ti militar bayat 
ti panangusar iti panagtagilako tapno maparegta ken mapatalged dagiti relasion. Isingasing ni 
Ter Maat ti basbassit a lapped iti nainkalintegan nga imigrasion ken ad-adu a rekurso iti beddeng 
para iti naparpartak a panagsukimat. Itandudo ni Mike ter Maat ti desentralisado nga autoridad 
tapno malimitaran ti bileg ti gobierno ken panangtungpal iti Bill of Rights-tayo.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Michael A. ter Maat 
Partido Libertarian
Bise Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Pakaidayawan ti makikadua kenni Presidente Donald J. Trump bayat ti 
panagtinnulongmi a mangisubli iti daytoy naindaklan a nasion. Iti laksid dagiti di agsarday a 
panangraut, saan nga agkupas ti dedikasion ni Presidente Trump kadagiti umili nga Americano. 
Saanna a sinerrek ti politika para iti bagina—inaramidna gapu ta kasapulan isuna ti America. 
Iyun-una ni Presidente Trump ti America, a makilablaban para kadagiti trabahador, pamilia, ken 
komunidad. Iti babaen ti lideratona, nakitami ti kapipigsaan nga ekonomia iti pakasaritaan, dagiti 
natalged a beddeng, ken napabaro a panagpannakkel dagiti Americano. Busoren ti establisimiento 
ti Washington isuna gapu ta agtatrabaho isuna para kenka, saan a kadakuada. Kritikal datoy a 
panagpipili. Iti babaen ni Joe Biden, nakitatayo ti nakapuy nga ekonomia, kinaawan kinatalged 
ti sangalubongan, ken umad-adu a krimen. Pagbalinen laeng ni Kamala Harris a nadakdakes 
dagiti banbanag. Ngem kenni Presidente Trump, makasublitayo iti pigsa ken kinarang-ay a 
tinagiragsaktayo idi. Iagpannakelko a makipagtakderak kenni Presidente Trump ken dumawat 
iti botosyo. Butosantayo manen isuna ket itultuloytayo nga isubli ti kinatan-ok dagiti Americano. 
Agyaman, ken sapay koma ta bendisionan ti Dios ti America.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL A NAGAN:
James David Vance 
Partido Republikan
Bise Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com Ni Claudia De la Cruz ket maysa nga ina, edukador, pastor, ken organisador 
ti komunidad iti unos ti panagbiagna a naidedikar ti trabahona iti hustisia para kadagiti 
mangmangged a klase. Kunatayo nga “Gibusan ti Kapitalismo Sakbay a Daytoy ti Manggibus 
Kadatayo” . Agsagsagaba dagiti lumugar gapu kadagiti makarumek a dadagsen ti gastos iti balay, 
groseria, ken utang. Daytoy a sistema palubosanna ti sumagmamano a bilionario a mangpataray 
iti ekonomia, mangirugi kadagiti gubat, ken mangdadael iti planeta. Usaren dagiti Wall Street 
ken politiko a korporasion ti militar a mangagaw, mangdadael, ken mangmulit iti daga manipud 
Red Hill agingga iti Gaza. Manipud iti panangbaybay-a ti gobierno idiay Lahaina agingga iti 
panangagaw iti daga iti intero a Hawai’i, ad-adda a maseknan dagiti kapitalista iti panangibangon 
kadagiti resort ngem iti panangibangon manen kadagiti komunidad. Suportaranmi ti bukod a 
pangngeddeng para iti nasion ti Hawaii ken naan-anay a karbengan para kadagiti amin nga 
imigrante. Kunami nga isardeng ti gubat iti Black America, gibusan ti panangikisap iti puli dagiti 
Palestino, ken gibusan ti tulong ti US iti Israel. Kayattayo ti talna, saan nga awan gibusna a gubat. 
Bangonentayo ti tignay ti umili para iti hustisia, a sangsangkamaysa!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Partido para iti Sosialismo ken 
Pannakawayawaya
Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ni Bise Presidente Harris ket makilablaban para iti New Way Forward a mangsalaknib 
kadagiti kangrunaan a wayawayatayo agraman ti karbengan ti babai nga agpili, mangpapigsa 
iti demokrasiatayo, ken mangsigurado a tunggal tao ket addaan iti gundaway a saan laeng a 
makalasat, no di ket makaabante. Kas piskal, Attorney General, Senador, ken Bise Presidente 
itan ti Estados Unidos, kanayon nga agtakder ni Kamala Harris para kadagiti tattao maibusor 
kadagiti manangraut, manangallilaw, ken nabileg nga interes. Pinadakkel ti agtatrabaho a nanang 
iti middle-class a sangakabbalayan, patienna a no napigsa ti middle class, napigsa ti America 
ken kas Presidente, pagbalinenna a kangrunaan a prioridad ti panangpababa kadagiti gastos 
ken panangpangato iti seguridad ti ekonomia. Ikarina nga agbalin a presidente para kadagiti 
amin nga Americano, presidente a mamagkaykaysa kadatayo iti aglawlaw dagiti kangatuan nga 
arapaaptayo, ken presidente a kanayon a makilaban para kadagiti tattao nga Americano. Manipud 
iti korte agingga iti White House, dayta ti trabahona iti biagna.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kamala D. Harris 
Partido Demokratic
Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Kalpasan ti panagdaliasatko iti amin a 50 nga estado, nakitak no kasano a tengngelen 
ti implasion ken ti nalabes a panagsaknap ti gobierno dagiti tattao. Babaen ti panangkissay iti 
gastos ken panangtimbeng iti badyet, mapalag-antayo ti gastos iti panagbiag ken mapapigsa 
ti ekonomia para iti tunggal maysa. Gibusak dagiti gubat, pagawidentayo dagiti tropatayo, ken 
waswasen ti Jones Act tapno mapababa ti gastos iti panagipatulod, a mangted kadagiti taga 
Hawaii iti ad-adu a nalaka a groseria. Ikkatentayo dagiti lapped ti gobierno ken tulongantayo a 
rumang-ay manen ti nasiontayo.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Chase Russell Oliver 
Partido Libertarian
Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ti Partido Solidarity ti America ket naikumit iti pannakapasayaat ti nasion ken 
lubongtayo babaen kadagiti nainsiriban a pagalagadan nga iwanwan dagiti kababalin 
ti Demokratiko a Kristiano. Patien da Peter Sonski ken Lauren Onak nga amin a tao–di 
pay naipasngay, nakapuy, napanglaw, wenno naibalud–ket addaan iti nainkasigudan a 
natauan a dignidad a di maikkat. Kalikaguman ti panagkumittayo iti maysa ken maysa a 
sangsangkamaysatayo a mangsurot iti hustisia, iti aniaman a lebel ti gobierno wenno kagimongan 
a kasayaatan a sumungbat kadagiti kasapulan dagiti pamilia ken komunidadtayo. Mamatikami 
iti environmentalism a mangiyun-una kadagiti tao ken komunidad, bayat a salaknibanna 
ti planetatayo para kadagiti masanguanan a kaputotan. Suportaranmi dagiti pro-family a 
pagalagadan a mangted iti pannakabalin kadagiti pamilia a mangabrasa kadagiti ubbing iti 
lubong babaen ti panangpababa kadagiti lapped ti ekonomia a sangsanguenda. Itandudomi dagiti 
trabahador ken lokal a negosio ken mangpataudkami kadagiti insentibo para iti panagdur-as ti 
nalawa nga ekonomia ti panagtagikua.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Peter  Sonski 
Partido ti Panagkaykaysa
Presidente
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral9Presidente ken Bise Presidente - Partido Demokratiko (D)
 Ni Claudia De la Cruz ket maysa nga ina, edukador, pastor, ken organisador 
ti komunidad iti unos ti panagbiagna a naidedikar ti trabahona iti hustisia para kadagiti 
mangmangged a klase. Kunatayo nga “Gibusan ti Kapitalismo Sakbay a Daytoy ti Manggibus 
Kadatayo” . Agsagsagaba dagiti lumugar gapu kadagiti makarumek a dadagsen ti gastos iti balay, 
groseria, ken utang. Daytoy a sistema palubosanna ti sumagmamano a bilionario a mangpataray 
iti ekonomia, mangirugi kadagiti gubat, ken mangdadael iti planeta. Usaren dagiti Wall Street 
ken politiko a korporasion ti militar a mangagaw, mangdadael, ken mangmulit iti daga manipud 
Red Hill agingga iti Gaza. Manipud iti panangbaybay-a ti gobierno idiay Lahaina agingga iti 
panangagaw iti daga iti intero a Hawai’i, ad-adda a maseknan dagiti kapitalista iti panangibangon 
kadagiti resort ngem iti panangibangon manen kadagiti komunidad. Suportaranmi ti bukod a 
pangngeddeng para iti nasion ti Hawaii ken naan-anay a karbengan para kadagiti amin nga 
imigrante. Kunami nga isardeng ti gubat iti Black America, gibusan ti panangikisap iti puli dagiti 
Palestino, ken gibusan ti tulong ti US iti Israel. Kayattayo ti talna, saan nga awan gibusna a gubat. 
Bangonentayo ti tignay ti umili para iti hustisia, a sangsangkamaysa!NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Partido para iti Sosialismo ken 
Pannakawayawaya
Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ni Bise Presidente Harris ket makilablaban para iti New Way Forward a mangsalaknib 
kadagiti kangrunaan a wayawayatayo agraman ti karbengan ti babai nga agpili, mangpapigsa 
iti demokrasiatayo, ken mangsigurado a tunggal tao ket addaan iti gundaway a saan laeng a 
makalasat, no di ket makaabante. Kas piskal, Attorney General, Senador, ken Bise Presidente 
itan ti Estados Unidos, kanayon nga agtakder ni Kamala Harris para kadagiti tattao maibusor 
kadagiti manangraut, manangallilaw, ken nabileg nga interes. Pinadakkel ti agtatrabaho a nanang 
iti middle-class a sangakabbalayan, patienna a no napigsa ti middle class, napigsa ti America 
ken kas Presidente, pagbalinenna a kangrunaan a prioridad ti panangpababa kadagiti gastos 
ken panangpangato iti seguridad ti ekonomia. Ikarina nga agbalin a presidente para kadagiti 
amin nga Americano, presidente a mamagkaykaysa kadatayo iti aglawlaw dagiti kangatuan nga 
arapaaptayo, ken presidente a kanayon a makilaban para kadagiti tattao nga Americano. Manipud 
iti korte agingga iti White House, dayta ti trabahona iti biagna.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kamala D. Harris 
Partido Demokratic
Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Kalpasan ti panagdaliasatko iti amin a 50 nga estado, nakitak no kasano a tengngelen 
ti implasion ken ti nalabes a panagsaknap ti gobierno dagiti tattao. Babaen ti panangkissay iti 
gastos ken panangtimbeng iti badyet, mapalag-antayo ti gastos iti panagbiag ken mapapigsa 
ti ekonomia para iti tunggal maysa. Gibusak dagiti gubat, pagawidentayo dagiti tropatayo, ken 
waswasen ti Jones Act tapno mapababa ti gastos iti panagipatulod, a mangted kadagiti taga 
Hawaii iti ad-adu a nalaka a groseria. Ikkatentayo dagiti lapped ti gobierno ken tulongantayo a 
rumang-ay manen ti nasiontayo.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Chase Russell Oliver 
Partido Libertarian
Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ti Partido Solidarity ti America ket naikumit iti pannakapasayaat ti nasion ken 
lubongtayo babaen kadagiti nainsiriban a pagalagadan nga iwanwan dagiti kababalin 
ti Demokratiko a Kristiano. Patien da Peter Sonski ken Lauren Onak nga amin a tao–di 
pay naipasngay, nakapuy, napanglaw, wenno naibalud–ket addaan iti nainkasigudan a 
natauan a dignidad a di maikkat. Kalikaguman ti panagkumittayo iti maysa ken maysa a 
sangsangkamaysatayo a mangsurot iti hustisia, iti aniaman a lebel ti gobierno wenno kagimongan 
a kasayaatan a sumungbat kadagiti kasapulan dagiti pamilia ken komunidadtayo. Mamatikami 
iti environmentalism a mangiyun-una kadagiti tao ken komunidad, bayat a salaknibanna 
ti planetatayo para kadagiti masanguanan a kaputotan. Suportaranmi dagiti pro-family a 
pagalagadan a mangted iti pannakabalin kadagiti pamilia a mangabrasa kadagiti ubbing iti 
lubong babaen ti panangpababa kadagiti lapped ti ekonomia a sangsanguenda. Itandudomi dagiti 
trabahador ken lokal a negosio ken mangpataudkami kadagiti insentibo para iti panagdur-as ti 
nalawa nga ekonomia ti panagtagikua.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Peter  Sonski 
Partido ti Panagkaykaysa
Presidente
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com Ni Gobernador Tim Walz ket kampeon para kadagiti agtatrabaho a pamilia ti 
America. Dati a kameng ti Army National Guard ken nagserbi iti 24 a tawen. Nagserbi ni Walz iti 
komunidadna kas mannursuro ken coach ti football – inturongna ti team-na iti state championship 
iti umuna a gundaway iti pakasaritaan ti pagadalan. Nabutosan isuna iti Kongreso iti maysa a 
Republican-leaning district, a sadiay ket nagserbi a kas nakaranggo a kameng iti House Veterans 
Affairs Committee ken nangipasa kadagiti lehislasion a tumulong a manglapped kadagiti 
panagpakamatay dagiti beterano. Kas gobernador, kinissayan ni Walz dagiti buis, pinababana ti 
gastos iti insulin, pinapigsana dagiti bayad iti basura, ken pinirmaanna ti paid leave nga agbalin 
a linteg. Timmakder ni Walz para kadagiti kangrunaan a wayawaya ken nangipasa iti lehislasion 
a mangsalaknib iti karbengan ti babai nga agpili kalpasan ti panangballikug ni Trump ken ni Roe. 
Maysa nga agtagikua iti paltog ken mangnganup, pinalawa ni Walz dagiti background check 
idiay Minnesota. Ken, nagtrabaho iti sibubukel nga isla tapno maipasa ti pakete a bipartisan 
infrastructure.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
WALZ, Tim
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Timothy J. Walz 
Partido Demokratic
Bise Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Ni Propesor Rudolph “Butch” Ware ket maysa nga aktibista ken edukador iti unos ti 
panagbiagna nga espesialisado iti pakasaritaan ti imperio, kolonialismo, panangikisap iti puli ken 
rebolusion. Iti napalabas a dua a dekada, inkabil ni Ware ti eskolarsip a serbisio kadagiti tattao, 
nangruna kas sungbat iti agtultuloy a panangikisap iti puli idiay Gaza, kasta met ti pammapatay 
kenni George Floyd idi 2020. Isu ket nangorganisar kadagiti teach-in, kurikulum ti edukasion ti 
komunidad, ken dagiti dadduma pay nga aktibista ken inisiatibo a panagorganisar. Iti nalawlawa, 
ni Ware ket agtartrabaho a kas maysa nga intelektual ti publiko, aktibista, artista, ken organisador, 
a mangsupsuporta kadagiti komunidad iti intero a pagilian ken iti intero a lubong tapno kariten ti 
imperialismo, panangdalus iti etniko, ken awan gibusna a gubat, ken tapno mangbangon kadagiti 
mataginayon, nalinteg, natalna nga alternatibo a nairamut kadagiti tradision nga Aprikano, 
Katutubo, ken Abrahamic. Ni Ware ket maysa a mangidadaulo nga autoridad ti akademiko iti U.S. 
Black Radical Tradition, Aprika ken Islam. Ni Propesor Ware ket naan-anay a kameng ti faculty 
idiay Northwestern, Michigan, ken ita ket UC Santa-Barbara, a mangisursuro iti Pakasaritaan, Black 
Studies, ken panagadal iti Islam.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
WARE, Rudolph
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Rudolph  Ware 
Partido Berde
Bise Presidente
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral10Presidente ken Bise Presidente - Partido Libertarian (L)
 Ni Karina Garcia ket maysa a Chicana organizer ken edukador a makilablaban para 
iti nasaysayaat a masakbayan sipud pay idi agtawen iti 17 . Kalpasan a nakaawat iti naan-anay 
nga eskolarsip idiay Columbia, nangisuro ni Karina iti matematika kas mannursuro iti haiskul. 
Timmulong isuna a nangidaulo kadagiti kampania para kadagiti kalintegan iti aborsion, 
kalintegan dagiti trabahador iti pagtaengan, naan-anay a kalintegan para kadagiti imigrante, ken 
pannakakansela ti utang dagiti estudiante. Kalikaguman daytoy a kampania ti naan-anay a baro 
nga ekonomia nga agserbi kadagiti mangmangged a klase, saan a dagiti bilionario. Ti gobierno 
dagiti mangmangged a klase ket mabalin a mangpennek kadagiti kasapulan dagiti tao – kas iti 
panangaramid iti libre a taripato ti salun-at, libre nga edukasion iti amin a lebel, libre a taripato 
iti ubing, disente a balay, ken karbengan iti konstitusion ti trabaho iti unyon. Agkandidato da 
Claudia ken Karina iti Partido para iti Socialismo ken Liberasion (PSL), a makilablaban para iti 
insigida a kasapulan dagiti napanglaw ken agtatrabaho a tattao ken para iti baro a kagimongan 
– socialismo. Daytoy a kampania ket maipapan iti nalablabes ngem eleksion laeng, maipapan 
daytoy iti panangbangon iti tignay ti masa nga agwaywayas manipud iti dua a partido a pro-
corporate.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Karina  Garcia 
Partido para iti Sosialismo ken 
Pannakawayawaya
Bise Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Naisubmitir ti joint statement para kadagiti kandidato iti Presidente ken Bise 
Presidente.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Lauren M. Onak 
Partido ti Panagkaykaysa
Bise Presidente
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Ni Mike ter Maat ket addaan iti naballigi a karera iti ekonomia a naipaganetget babaen 
ti trabahona iti Office of Management and Budget iti White House ken panagisuro iti unibersidad. 
Bayat ti kaaddana idiay Washington DC, intandudona dagiti nawaywaya a merkado ti pinansial 
a serbisio. Nagserbi ni Mike ter Maat kas opisial ti pulisia ti Broward County FL iti 11.5 a tawen. 
Nakitana a mismo ti pannakasapul kadagiti dakkel a reporma iti pannakaipatungpal ti linteg, 
karaman kadagitoy, a mangisilpo iti sueldo iti panagaramid ken panangsukat iti kualipikado nga 
imunidad iti personal liability a seguro. Ipaganetget ti foreign policy ni Ter Maat ti etika ken saan a 
panangibabaet babaen iti panangliklik iti tulong ti ganggannaet ken pannakibiang ti militar bayat 
ti panangusar iti panagtagilako tapno maparegta ken mapatalged dagiti relasion. Isingasing ni 
Ter Maat ti basbassit a lapped iti nainkalintegan nga imigrasion ken ad-adu a rekurso iti beddeng 
para iti naparpartak a panagsukimat. Itandudo ni Mike ter Maat ti desentralisado nga autoridad 
tapno malimitaran ti bileg ti gobierno ken panangtungpal iti Bill of Rights-tayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Michael A. ter Maat 
Partido Libertarian
Bise Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Pakaidayawan ti makikadua kenni Presidente Donald J. Trump bayat ti 
panagtinnulongmi a mangisubli iti daytoy naindaklan a nasion. Iti laksid dagiti di agsarday a 
panangraut, saan nga agkupas ti dedikasion ni Presidente Trump kadagiti umili nga Americano. 
Saanna a sinerrek ti politika para iti bagina—inaramidna gapu ta kasapulan isuna ti America. 
Iyun-una ni Presidente Trump ti America, a makilablaban para kadagiti trabahador, pamilia, ken 
komunidad. Iti babaen ti lideratona, nakitami ti kapipigsaan nga ekonomia iti pakasaritaan, dagiti 
natalged a beddeng, ken napabaro a panagpannakkel dagiti Americano. Busoren ti establisimiento 
ti Washington isuna gapu ta agtatrabaho isuna para kenka, saan a kadakuada. Kritikal datoy a 
panagpipili. Iti babaen ni Joe Biden, nakitatayo ti nakapuy nga ekonomia, kinaawan kinatalged 
ti sangalubongan, ken umad-adu a krimen. Pagbalinen laeng ni Kamala Harris a nadakdakes 
dagiti banbanag. Ngem kenni Presidente Trump, makasublitayo iti pigsa ken kinarang-ay a 
tinagiragsaktayo idi. Iagpannakelko a makipagtakderak kenni Presidente Trump ken dumawat 
iti botosyo. Butosantayo manen isuna ket itultuloytayo nga isubli ti kinatan-ok dagiti Americano. 
Agyaman, ken sapay koma ta bendisionan ti Dios ti America.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL A NAGAN:
James David Vance 
Partido Republikan
Bise Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com Ni Claudia De la Cruz ket maysa nga ina, edukador, pastor, ken organisador 
ti komunidad iti unos ti panagbiagna a naidedikar ti trabahona iti hustisia para kadagiti 
mangmangged a klase. Kunatayo nga “Gibusan ti Kapitalismo Sakbay a Daytoy ti Manggibus 
Kadatayo” . Agsagsagaba dagiti lumugar gapu kadagiti makarumek a dadagsen ti gastos iti balay, 
groseria, ken utang. Daytoy a sistema palubosanna ti sumagmamano a bilionario a mangpataray 
iti ekonomia, mangirugi kadagiti gubat, ken mangdadael iti planeta. Usaren dagiti Wall Street 
ken politiko a korporasion ti militar a mangagaw, mangdadael, ken mangmulit iti daga manipud 
Red Hill agingga iti Gaza. Manipud iti panangbaybay-a ti gobierno idiay Lahaina agingga iti 
panangagaw iti daga iti intero a Hawai’i, ad-adda a maseknan dagiti kapitalista iti panangibangon 
kadagiti resort ngem iti panangibangon manen kadagiti komunidad. Suportaranmi ti bukod a 
pangngeddeng para iti nasion ti Hawaii ken naan-anay a karbengan para kadagiti amin nga 
imigrante. Kunami nga isardeng ti gubat iti Black America, gibusan ti panangikisap iti puli dagiti 
Palestino, ken gibusan ti tulong ti US iti Israel. Kayattayo ti talna, saan nga awan gibusna a gubat. 
Bangonentayo ti tignay ti umili para iti hustisia, a sangsangkamaysa!NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Partido para iti Sosialismo ken 
Pannakawayawaya
Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ni Bise Presidente Harris ket makilablaban para iti New Way Forward a mangsalaknib 
kadagiti kangrunaan a wayawayatayo agraman ti karbengan ti babai nga agpili, mangpapigsa 
iti demokrasiatayo, ken mangsigurado a tunggal tao ket addaan iti gundaway a saan laeng a 
makalasat, no di ket makaabante. Kas piskal, Attorney General, Senador, ken Bise Presidente 
itan ti Estados Unidos, kanayon nga agtakder ni Kamala Harris para kadagiti tattao maibusor 
kadagiti manangraut, manangallilaw, ken nabileg nga interes. Pinadakkel ti agtatrabaho a nanang 
iti middle-class a sangakabbalayan, patienna a no napigsa ti middle class, napigsa ti America 
ken kas Presidente, pagbalinenna a kangrunaan a prioridad ti panangpababa kadagiti gastos 
ken panangpangato iti seguridad ti ekonomia. Ikarina nga agbalin a presidente para kadagiti 
amin nga Americano, presidente a mamagkaykaysa kadatayo iti aglawlaw dagiti kangatuan nga 
arapaaptayo, ken presidente a kanayon a makilaban para kadagiti tattao nga Americano. Manipud 
iti korte agingga iti White House, dayta ti trabahona iti biagna.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kamala D. Harris 
Partido Demokratic
Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Kalpasan ti panagdaliasatko iti amin a 50 nga estado, nakitak no kasano a tengngelen 
ti implasion ken ti nalabes a panagsaknap ti gobierno dagiti tattao. Babaen ti panangkissay iti 
gastos ken panangtimbeng iti badyet, mapalag-antayo ti gastos iti panagbiag ken mapapigsa 
ti ekonomia para iti tunggal maysa. Gibusak dagiti gubat, pagawidentayo dagiti tropatayo, ken 
waswasen ti Jones Act tapno mapababa ti gastos iti panagipatulod, a mangted kadagiti taga 
Hawaii iti ad-adu a nalaka a groseria. Ikkatentayo dagiti lapped ti gobierno ken tulongantayo a 
rumang-ay manen ti nasiontayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Chase Russell Oliver 
Partido Libertarian
Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ti Partido Solidarity ti America ket naikumit iti pannakapasayaat ti nasion ken 
lubongtayo babaen kadagiti nainsiriban a pagalagadan nga iwanwan dagiti kababalin 
ti Demokratiko a Kristiano. Patien da Peter Sonski ken Lauren Onak nga amin a tao–di 
pay naipasngay, nakapuy, napanglaw, wenno naibalud–ket addaan iti nainkasigudan a 
natauan a dignidad a di maikkat. Kalikaguman ti panagkumittayo iti maysa ken maysa a 
sangsangkamaysatayo a mangsurot iti hustisia, iti aniaman a lebel ti gobierno wenno kagimongan 
a kasayaatan a sumungbat kadagiti kasapulan dagiti pamilia ken komunidadtayo. Mamatikami 
iti environmentalism a mangiyun-una kadagiti tao ken komunidad, bayat a salaknibanna 
ti planetatayo para kadagiti masanguanan a kaputotan. Suportaranmi dagiti pro-family a 
pagalagadan a mangted iti pannakabalin kadagiti pamilia a mangabrasa kadagiti ubbing iti 
lubong babaen ti panangpababa kadagiti lapped ti ekonomia a sangsanguenda. Itandudomi dagiti 
trabahador ken lokal a negosio ken mangpataudkami kadagiti insentibo para iti panagdur-as ti 
nalawa nga ekonomia ti panagtagikua.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Peter  Sonski 
Partido ti Panagkaykaysa
Presidente
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.comEleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral11Presidente ken Bise Presidente - Partido Solidarity (S)
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Ni Karina Garcia ket maysa a Chicana organizer ken edukador a makilablaban para 
iti nasaysayaat a masakbayan sipud pay idi agtawen iti 17 . Kalpasan a nakaawat iti naan-anay 
nga eskolarsip idiay Columbia, nangisuro ni Karina iti matematika kas mannursuro iti haiskul. 
Timmulong isuna a nangidaulo kadagiti kampania para kadagiti kalintegan iti aborsion, 
kalintegan dagiti trabahador iti pagtaengan, naan-anay a kalintegan para kadagiti imigrante, ken 
pannakakansela ti utang dagiti estudiante. Kalikaguman daytoy a kampania ti naan-anay a baro 
nga ekonomia nga agserbi kadagiti mangmangged a klase, saan a dagiti bilionario. Ti gobierno 
dagiti mangmangged a klase ket mabalin a mangpennek kadagiti kasapulan dagiti tao – kas iti 
panangaramid iti libre a taripato ti salun-at, libre nga edukasion iti amin a lebel, libre a taripato 
iti ubing, disente a balay, ken karbengan iti konstitusion ti trabaho iti unyon. Agkandidato da 
Claudia ken Karina iti Partido para iti Socialismo ken Liberasion (PSL), a makilablaban para iti 
insigida a kasapulan dagiti napanglaw ken agtatrabaho a tattao ken para iti baro a kagimongan 
– socialismo. Daytoy a kampania ket maipapan iti nalablabes ngem eleksion laeng, maipapan 
daytoy iti panangbangon iti tignay ti masa nga agwaywayas manipud iti dua a partido a pro-
corporate.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Karina  Garcia 
Partido para iti Sosialismo ken 
Pannakawayawaya
Bise Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Naisubmitir ti joint statement para kadagiti kandidato iti Presidente ken Bise 
Presidente.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Lauren M. Onak 
Partido ti Panagkaykaysa
Bise Presidente
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Ni Mike ter Maat ket addaan iti naballigi a karera iti ekonomia a naipaganetget babaen 
ti trabahona iti Office of Management and Budget iti White House ken panagisuro iti unibersidad. 
Bayat ti kaaddana idiay Washington DC, intandudona dagiti nawaywaya a merkado ti pinansial 
a serbisio. Nagserbi ni Mike ter Maat kas opisial ti pulisia ti Broward County FL iti 11.5 a tawen. 
Nakitana a mismo ti pannakasapul kadagiti dakkel a reporma iti pannakaipatungpal ti linteg, 
karaman kadagitoy, a mangisilpo iti sueldo iti panagaramid ken panangsukat iti kualipikado nga 
imunidad iti personal liability a seguro. Ipaganetget ti foreign policy ni Ter Maat ti etika ken saan a 
panangibabaet babaen iti panangliklik iti tulong ti ganggannaet ken pannakibiang ti militar bayat 
ti panangusar iti panagtagilako tapno maparegta ken mapatalged dagiti relasion. Isingasing ni 
Ter Maat ti basbassit a lapped iti nainkalintegan nga imigrasion ken ad-adu a rekurso iti beddeng 
para iti naparpartak a panagsukimat. Itandudo ni Mike ter Maat ti desentralisado nga autoridad 
tapno malimitaran ti bileg ti gobierno ken panangtungpal iti Bill of Rights-tayo.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Michael A. ter Maat 
Partido Libertarian
Bise Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Pakaidayawan ti makikadua kenni Presidente Donald J. Trump bayat ti 
panagtinnulongmi a mangisubli iti daytoy naindaklan a nasion. Iti laksid dagiti di agsarday a 
panangraut, saan nga agkupas ti dedikasion ni Presidente Trump kadagiti umili nga Americano. 
Saanna a sinerrek ti politika para iti bagina—inaramidna gapu ta kasapulan isuna ti America. 
Iyun-una ni Presidente Trump ti America, a makilablaban para kadagiti trabahador, pamilia, ken 
komunidad. Iti babaen ti lideratona, nakitami ti kapipigsaan nga ekonomia iti pakasaritaan, dagiti 
natalged a beddeng, ken napabaro a panagpannakkel dagiti Americano. Busoren ti establisimiento 
ti Washington isuna gapu ta agtatrabaho isuna para kenka, saan a kadakuada. Kritikal datoy a 
panagpipili. Iti babaen ni Joe Biden, nakitatayo ti nakapuy nga ekonomia, kinaawan kinatalged 
ti sangalubongan, ken umad-adu a krimen. Pagbalinen laeng ni Kamala Harris a nadakdakes 
dagiti banbanag. Ngem kenni Presidente Trump, makasublitayo iti pigsa ken kinarang-ay a 
tinagiragsaktayo idi. Iagpannakelko a makipagtakderak kenni Presidente Trump ken dumawat 
iti botosyo. Butosantayo manen isuna ket itultuloytayo nga isubli ti kinatan-ok dagiti Americano. 
Agyaman, ken sapay koma ta bendisionan ti Dios ti America.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL A NAGAN:
James David Vance 
Partido Republikan
Bise Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com Ni Claudia De la Cruz ket maysa nga ina, edukador, pastor, ken organisador 
ti komunidad iti unos ti panagbiagna a naidedikar ti trabahona iti hustisia para kadagiti 
mangmangged a klase. Kunatayo nga “Gibusan ti Kapitalismo Sakbay a Daytoy ti Manggibus 
Kadatayo” . Agsagsagaba dagiti lumugar gapu kadagiti makarumek a dadagsen ti gastos iti balay, 
groseria, ken utang. Daytoy a sistema palubosanna ti sumagmamano a bilionario a mangpataray 
iti ekonomia, mangirugi kadagiti gubat, ken mangdadael iti planeta. Usaren dagiti Wall Street 
ken politiko a korporasion ti militar a mangagaw, mangdadael, ken mangmulit iti daga manipud 
Red Hill agingga iti Gaza. Manipud iti panangbaybay-a ti gobierno idiay Lahaina agingga iti 
panangagaw iti daga iti intero a Hawai’i, ad-adda a maseknan dagiti kapitalista iti panangibangon 
kadagiti resort ngem iti panangibangon manen kadagiti komunidad. Suportaranmi ti bukod a 
pangngeddeng para iti nasion ti Hawaii ken naan-anay a karbengan para kadagiti amin nga 
imigrante. Kunami nga isardeng ti gubat iti Black America, gibusan ti panangikisap iti puli dagiti 
Palestino, ken gibusan ti tulong ti US iti Israel. Kayattayo ti talna, saan nga awan gibusna a gubat. 
Bangonentayo ti tignay ti umili para iti hustisia, a sangsangkamaysa!NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Partido para iti Sosialismo ken 
Pannakawayawaya
Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ni Bise Presidente Harris ket makilablaban para iti New Way Forward a mangsalaknib 
kadagiti kangrunaan a wayawayatayo agraman ti karbengan ti babai nga agpili, mangpapigsa 
iti demokrasiatayo, ken mangsigurado a tunggal tao ket addaan iti gundaway a saan laeng a 
makalasat, no di ket makaabante. Kas piskal, Attorney General, Senador, ken Bise Presidente 
itan ti Estados Unidos, kanayon nga agtakder ni Kamala Harris para kadagiti tattao maibusor 
kadagiti manangraut, manangallilaw, ken nabileg nga interes. Pinadakkel ti agtatrabaho a nanang 
iti middle-class a sangakabbalayan, patienna a no napigsa ti middle class, napigsa ti America 
ken kas Presidente, pagbalinenna a kangrunaan a prioridad ti panangpababa kadagiti gastos 
ken panangpangato iti seguridad ti ekonomia. Ikarina nga agbalin a presidente para kadagiti 
amin nga Americano, presidente a mamagkaykaysa kadatayo iti aglawlaw dagiti kangatuan nga 
arapaaptayo, ken presidente a kanayon a makilaban para kadagiti tattao nga Americano. Manipud 
iti korte agingga iti White House, dayta ti trabahona iti biagna.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kamala D. Harris 
Partido Demokratic
Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Kalpasan ti panagdaliasatko iti amin a 50 nga estado, nakitak no kasano a tengngelen 
ti implasion ken ti nalabes a panagsaknap ti gobierno dagiti tattao. Babaen ti panangkissay iti 
gastos ken panangtimbeng iti badyet, mapalag-antayo ti gastos iti panagbiag ken mapapigsa 
ti ekonomia para iti tunggal maysa. Gibusak dagiti gubat, pagawidentayo dagiti tropatayo, ken 
waswasen ti Jones Act tapno mapababa ti gastos iti panagipatulod, a mangted kadagiti taga 
Hawaii iti ad-adu a nalaka a groseria. Ikkatentayo dagiti lapped ti gobierno ken tulongantayo a 
rumang-ay manen ti nasiontayo.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Chase Russell Oliver 
Partido Libertarian
Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ti Partido Solidarity ti America ket naikumit iti pannakapasayaat ti nasion ken 
lubongtayo babaen kadagiti nainsiriban a pagalagadan nga iwanwan dagiti kababalin 
ti Demokratiko a Kristiano. Patien da Peter Sonski ken Lauren Onak nga amin a tao–di 
pay naipasngay, nakapuy, napanglaw, wenno naibalud–ket addaan iti nainkasigudan a 
natauan a dignidad a di maikkat. Kalikaguman ti panagkumittayo iti maysa ken maysa a 
sangsangkamaysatayo a mangsurot iti hustisia, iti aniaman a lebel ti gobierno wenno kagimongan 
a kasayaatan a sumungbat kadagiti kasapulan dagiti pamilia ken komunidadtayo. Mamatikami 
iti environmentalism a mangiyun-una kadagiti tao ken komunidad, bayat a salaknibanna 
ti planetatayo para kadagiti masanguanan a kaputotan. Suportaranmi dagiti pro-family a 
pagalagadan a mangted iti pannakabalin kadagiti pamilia a mangabrasa kadagiti ubbing iti 
lubong babaen ti panangpababa kadagiti lapped ti ekonomia a sangsanguenda. Itandudomi dagiti 
trabahador ken lokal a negosio ken mangpataudkami kadagiti insentibo para iti panagdur-as ti 
nalawa nga ekonomia ti panagtagikua.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Peter  Sonski 
Partido ti Panagkaykaysa
Presidente
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral12Presidente ken Bise Presidente - Partido Berde (G)
 Ni Gobernador Tim Walz ket kampeon para kadagiti agtatrabaho a pamilia ti 
America. Dati a kameng ti Army National Guard ken nagserbi iti 24 a tawen. Nagserbi ni Walz iti 
komunidadna kas mannursuro ken coach ti football – inturongna ti team-na iti state championship 
iti umuna a gundaway iti pakasaritaan ti pagadalan. Nabutosan isuna iti Kongreso iti maysa a 
Republican-leaning district, a sadiay ket nagserbi a kas nakaranggo a kameng iti House Veterans 
Affairs Committee ken nangipasa kadagiti lehislasion a tumulong a manglapped kadagiti 
panagpakamatay dagiti beterano. Kas gobernador, kinissayan ni Walz dagiti buis, pinababana ti 
gastos iti insulin, pinapigsana dagiti bayad iti basura, ken pinirmaanna ti paid leave nga agbalin 
a linteg. Timmakder ni Walz para kadagiti kangrunaan a wayawaya ken nangipasa iti lehislasion 
a mangsalaknib iti karbengan ti babai nga agpili kalpasan ti panangballikug ni Trump ken ni Roe. 
Maysa nga agtagikua iti paltog ken mangnganup, pinalawa ni Walz dagiti background check 
idiay Minnesota. Ken, nagtrabaho iti sibubukel nga isla tapno maipasa ti pakete a bipartisan 
infrastructure.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
WALZ, Tim
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Timothy J. Walz 
Partido Demokratic
Bise Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Ni Propesor Rudolph “Butch” Ware ket maysa nga aktibista ken edukador iti unos ti 
panagbiagna nga espesialisado iti pakasaritaan ti imperio, kolonialismo, panangikisap iti puli ken 
rebolusion. Iti napalabas a dua a dekada, inkabil ni Ware ti eskolarsip a serbisio kadagiti tattao, 
nangruna kas sungbat iti agtultuloy a panangikisap iti puli idiay Gaza, kasta met ti pammapatay 
kenni George Floyd idi 2020. Isu ket nangorganisar kadagiti teach-in, kurikulum ti edukasion ti 
komunidad, ken dagiti dadduma pay nga aktibista ken inisiatibo a panagorganisar. Iti nalawlawa, 
ni Ware ket agtartrabaho a kas maysa nga intelektual ti publiko, aktibista, artista, ken organisador, 
a mangsupsuporta kadagiti komunidad iti intero a pagilian ken iti intero a lubong tapno kariten ti 
imperialismo, panangdalus iti etniko, ken awan gibusna a gubat, ken tapno mangbangon kadagiti 
mataginayon, nalinteg, natalna nga alternatibo a nairamut kadagiti tradision nga Aprikano, 
Katutubo, ken Abrahamic. Ni Ware ket maysa a mangidadaulo nga autoridad ti akademiko iti U.S. 
Black Radical Tradition, Aprika ken Islam. Ni Propesor Ware ket naan-anay a kameng ti faculty 
idiay Northwestern, Michigan, ken ita ket UC Santa-Barbara, a mangisursuro iti Pakasaritaan, Black 
Studies, ken panagadal iti Islam.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
WARE, Rudolph
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Rudolph  Ware 
Partido Berde
Bise Presidente
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Nadadael ti sistema ti politika. Nagatang ken nabayadan ti dua a partido ti Wall Street. 
Agpada a baybay-anda dagiti agtartrabaho a tattao, baybay-anda ti balay, taripato ti salun-at 
ken edukasion, mangpakaro iti krisis ti klima ken mangsayang kadagiti trilion iti awan gibusna 
a makina ti gubat. Nasurok a 60% kadatayo ita ti agkuna a napaay ti sistema ti dua a partido 
ket kasapulantayo ti partido nga agserbi kadagiti umili. Agkandidatoak tapno idiayak gayta a 
pagpilian: maysa a pro-worker, kontra-gubat, kampania ti panagtignay maipapan iti klima iti 
balota iti intero a pagilian. Laksidentayo ti makarimon a kuarta manipud kadagiti korporasion 
ken bilionario. Ilabanantayo ti ekonomia nga epektibo para kadagiti agtartrabaho a tattao, nga 
addaan iti Medicare para iti Amin, nalaka a balay, libre a nangatngato nga edukasion ti publiko, 
pannakagibus ti masa a pannakaibalud ken kinaranggas dagiti pulis, reparasion para kadagiti 
kaputotan dagiti naadipen ken nakolonia a tattao, ken dadduma pay. Kasapulantayo ti pudno 
a Green New Deal ken pannakagibus ti awan gibusna a gubat. Ken masapul a gibusantayo ti 
panangikisap iti puli idiay Palestine.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
STEIN, Jill
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jill  Stein 
Partido Berde
Presidente
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Pinanawak ti dati a biagko gapu ta diak madaeran bayat a dagiti career politician 
pinespesda daytoy a pagilian. Kas Presidente, mangalaak kadagiti nabileg nga espesial nga 
interes, matarimaan dagiti dakes a katulagan iti panagtagilako, magibusan dagiti ganggannaet a 
gubat, nangpatalged iti beddeng, ken panangtakder iti Big Pharma ken Tsina. Sangsangkamaysa, 
inyun-unatayo ti America ken insublitayo ti pannakabalin kadagiti umili. Ngem ita, daddadaelen 
ti rinuker a kartel ti gobierno ti pagiliantayo. Makitkitatayo dagiti panangraut iti nawaya a 
panagsao, nasaknap a krimen, dagiti terorista a mangsaksakop iti beddengtayo, ken ti paliado 
nga ekonomia. Nalakub ti panagwaywayas, wayawaya, ken pammati. Ti tignaytayo a Pagbalinen a 
Dakkel Manen ti America ti kakaisuna a puersa a napigsa nga umdas a mangisubli iti kinatalged, 
kinarang-ay, ken talna. Paruk-atak ti enerhia ti America, pabaruek ti pannakakissay ti buis, ikkatek 
dagiti makalapped a pagannurotan, ken isardengko ti panagsayang a panaggasto. Naminsanen 
a naparsuatayo ti kadakkelan nga ekonomia ti America, ken aramidentayo manen dayta. 
Sangsangkamaysatayo nga isubli ti kinarang-ay ken kinatan-ok ti America.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TRUMP, Donald J.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Donald John Trump 
Partido Republikan
Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral13Presidente ken Bise Presidente - Partido Republikan (R)
 Ni Karina Garcia ket maysa a Chicana organizer ken edukador a makilablaban para 
iti nasaysayaat a masakbayan sipud pay idi agtawen iti 17 . Kalpasan a nakaawat iti naan-anay 
nga eskolarsip idiay Columbia, nangisuro ni Karina iti matematika kas mannursuro iti haiskul. 
Timmulong isuna a nangidaulo kadagiti kampania para kadagiti kalintegan iti aborsion, 
kalintegan dagiti trabahador iti pagtaengan, naan-anay a kalintegan para kadagiti imigrante, ken 
pannakakansela ti utang dagiti estudiante. Kalikaguman daytoy a kampania ti naan-anay a baro 
nga ekonomia nga agserbi kadagiti mangmangged a klase, saan a dagiti bilionario. Ti gobierno 
dagiti mangmangged a klase ket mabalin a mangpennek kadagiti kasapulan dagiti tao – kas iti 
panangaramid iti libre a taripato ti salun-at, libre nga edukasion iti amin a lebel, libre a taripato 
iti ubing, disente a balay, ken karbengan iti konstitusion ti trabaho iti unyon. Agkandidato da 
Claudia ken Karina iti Partido para iti Socialismo ken Liberasion (PSL), a makilablaban para iti 
insigida a kasapulan dagiti napanglaw ken agtatrabaho a tattao ken para iti baro a kagimongan 
– socialismo. Daytoy a kampania ket maipapan iti nalablabes ngem eleksion laeng, maipapan 
daytoy iti panangbangon iti tignay ti masa nga agwaywayas manipud iti dua a partido a pro-
corporate.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Karina  Garcia 
Partido para iti Sosialismo ken 
Pannakawayawaya
Bise Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Naisubmitir ti joint statement para kadagiti kandidato iti Presidente ken Bise 
Presidente.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Lauren M. Onak 
Partido ti Panagkaykaysa
Bise Presidente
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Ni Mike ter Maat ket addaan iti naballigi a karera iti ekonomia a naipaganetget babaen 
ti trabahona iti Office of Management and Budget iti White House ken panagisuro iti unibersidad. 
Bayat ti kaaddana idiay Washington DC, intandudona dagiti nawaywaya a merkado ti pinansial 
a serbisio. Nagserbi ni Mike ter Maat kas opisial ti pulisia ti Broward County FL iti 11.5 a tawen. 
Nakitana a mismo ti pannakasapul kadagiti dakkel a reporma iti pannakaipatungpal ti linteg, 
karaman kadagitoy, a mangisilpo iti sueldo iti panagaramid ken panangsukat iti kualipikado nga 
imunidad iti personal liability a seguro. Ipaganetget ti foreign policy ni Ter Maat ti etika ken saan a 
panangibabaet babaen iti panangliklik iti tulong ti ganggannaet ken pannakibiang ti militar bayat 
ti panangusar iti panagtagilako tapno maparegta ken mapatalged dagiti relasion. Isingasing ni 
Ter Maat ti basbassit a lapped iti nainkalintegan nga imigrasion ken ad-adu a rekurso iti beddeng 
para iti naparpartak a panagsukimat. Itandudo ni Mike ter Maat ti desentralisado nga autoridad 
tapno malimitaran ti bileg ti gobierno ken panangtungpal iti Bill of Rights-tayo.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Michael A. ter Maat 
Partido Libertarian
Bise Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Pakaidayawan ti makikadua kenni Presidente Donald J. Trump bayat ti 
panagtinnulongmi a mangisubli iti daytoy naindaklan a nasion. Iti laksid dagiti di agsarday a 
panangraut, saan nga agkupas ti dedikasion ni Presidente Trump kadagiti umili nga Americano. 
Saanna a sinerrek ti politika para iti bagina—inaramidna gapu ta kasapulan isuna ti America. 
Iyun-una ni Presidente Trump ti America, a makilablaban para kadagiti trabahador, pamilia, ken 
komunidad. Iti babaen ti lideratona, nakitami ti kapipigsaan nga ekonomia iti pakasaritaan, dagiti 
natalged a beddeng, ken napabaro a panagpannakkel dagiti Americano. Busoren ti establisimiento 
ti Washington isuna gapu ta agtatrabaho isuna para kenka, saan a kadakuada. Kritikal datoy a 
panagpipili. Iti babaen ni Joe Biden, nakitatayo ti nakapuy nga ekonomia, kinaawan kinatalged 
ti sangalubongan, ken umad-adu a krimen. Pagbalinen laeng ni Kamala Harris a nadakdakes 
dagiti banbanag. Ngem kenni Presidente Trump, makasublitayo iti pigsa ken kinarang-ay a 
tinagiragsaktayo idi. Iagpannakelko a makipagtakderak kenni Presidente Trump ken dumawat 
iti botosyo. Butosantayo manen isuna ket itultuloytayo nga isubli ti kinatan-ok dagiti Americano. 
Agyaman, ken sapay koma ta bendisionan ti Dios ti America.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL A NAGAN:
James David Vance 
Partido Republikan
Bise Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
 Nadadael ti sistema ti politika. Nagatang ken nabayadan ti dua a partido ti Wall Street. 
Agpada a baybay-anda dagiti agtartrabaho a tattao, baybay-anda ti balay, taripato ti salun-at 
ken edukasion, mangpakaro iti krisis ti klima ken mangsayang kadagiti trilion iti awan gibusna 
a makina ti gubat. Nasurok a 60% kadatayo ita ti agkuna a napaay ti sistema ti dua a partido 
ket kasapulantayo ti partido nga agserbi kadagiti umili. Agkandidatoak tapno idiayak gayta a 
pagpilian: maysa a pro-worker, kontra-gubat, kampania ti panagtignay maipapan iti klima iti 
balota iti intero a pagilian. Laksidentayo ti makarimon a kuarta manipud kadagiti korporasion 
ken bilionario. Ilabanantayo ti ekonomia nga epektibo para kadagiti agtartrabaho a tattao, nga 
addaan iti Medicare para iti Amin, nalaka a balay, libre a nangatngato nga edukasion ti publiko, 
pannakagibus ti masa a pannakaibalud ken kinaranggas dagiti pulis, reparasion para kadagiti 
kaputotan dagiti naadipen ken nakolonia a tattao, ken dadduma pay. Kasapulantayo ti pudno 
a Green New Deal ken pannakagibus ti awan gibusna a gubat. Ken masapul a gibusantayo ti 
panangikisap iti puli idiay Palestine.NAGAN TI BALOTA:
STEIN, Jill
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jill  Stein 
Partido Berde
Presidente
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Pinanawak ti dati a biagko gapu ta diak madaeran bayat a dagiti career politician 
pinespesda daytoy a pagilian. Kas Presidente, mangalaak kadagiti nabileg nga espesial nga 
interes, matarimaan dagiti dakes a katulagan iti panagtagilako, magibusan dagiti ganggannaet a 
gubat, nangpatalged iti beddeng, ken panangtakder iti Big Pharma ken Tsina. Sangsangkamaysa, 
inyun-unatayo ti America ken insublitayo ti pannakabalin kadagiti umili. Ngem ita, daddadaelen 
ti rinuker a kartel ti gobierno ti pagiliantayo. Makitkitatayo dagiti panangraut iti nawaya a 
panagsao, nasaknap a krimen, dagiti terorista a mangsaksakop iti beddengtayo, ken ti paliado 
nga ekonomia. Nalakub ti panagwaywayas, wayawaya, ken pammati. Ti tignaytayo a Pagbalinen a 
Dakkel Manen ti America ti kakaisuna a puersa a napigsa nga umdas a mangisubli iti kinatalged, 
kinarang-ay, ken talna. Paruk-atak ti enerhia ti America, pabaruek ti pannakakissay ti buis, ikkatek 
dagiti makalapped a pagannurotan, ken isardengko ti panagsayang a panaggasto. Naminsanen 
a naparsuatayo ti kadakkelan nga ekonomia ti America, ken aramidentayo manen dayta. 
Sangsangkamaysatayo nga isubli ti kinarang-ay ken kinatan-ok ti America.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TRUMP, Donald J.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Donald John Trump 
Partido Republikan
Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral14Senador ti Estados Unidos 
 Agtitinnulongtayo a Mangpasardeng ti Human Trafficking ken Drug Smuggling! 
“Saanmo a masolbar ti parikot nga usaren ti pareho a panunot a nangaramid iti daytoy.” -Albert 
Einstein Nu kasta garod, Simple laeng ti Solusion: Nasken a Sukatantayo dagiti Banag ken 
“Agbalintayo a ti Panagbaliw a Kayattayo a Makita iti Lubong” -Mahatma Gandhi Agbalintayo a 
Banuar iti Bukodtayo a Biag ken Paregtentayo Dagiti Sumaruno a Henerasion Tapno Maaramidtayo 
a Nasaysayaat a Pagbiagan iti Lubong. Mamati ni Pikachu iti Self Sufficiency! Adalen nu kasano 
nga agaramid iti bukodmo a Hale (balay), Adalen nu kasano nga agbiag nga Off the Grid, Adalen 
nu kasano nga agpuunan ken makisinukat iti crypto, ken agbalinka a nasaysayaat a tao ngem 
idi kalman. FYI, ni Master Shelby Billionaire ket dimmakkel iti Wai’anae manipod iti Quonset 
hut ken dimakkel isuna nga agbuybuya iti Voltron, Ninja Turtles, Care Bears, Thundercats, 
ken Captain Planet. Adda Kenka iti Pannakabalin! Nu kayatmo dagiti Super Hero, Ibotosmo ni 
Pikachu! Cheeeehuuuuuu Facebook @Shelby Keiki’okalani IG @Legendarybillionaire Youtube @
SuperShelbyBillionaire Mahalo Nui Loa!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
BILLIONAIRE, Shelby Pikachu
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Shelby  Billionaire 
Datayo ti Tattao
Senador iti Estados Unidos
hawaiiankingdom.org
presidentbillionaire@gmail.com
(808) 747-7336
 Kas Senadormo iti Estados Unidos, inaldaw a makilablabanak para kenka tapno 
mapababa ti gastos ken mapasayaat ti biag dagiti tattao ken pamilia iti Hawaii. Agtatrabaho 
man a mangpalawa kadagiti gundaway ti edukasion para iti keikitayo, papigsaen dagiti kritikal 
a programa a kas iti Social Security ken Medicare para iti kupunatayo, wenno mangpasingked 
kadagiti patas ken objektibo a hues, naikumitak a mangsigurado a maala dagiti komunidadtayo 
ti suporta a maikari kadakuada. Bayat ti panawenko iti Senado binilion ti napuonantayo iti 
panangmoderno iti imprastruktura ti nasiontayo, naipababa dagiti gastos iti panangtaripato iti 
salun-at para iti kupunatayo, ken naaramid ti napnoan pakasaritaan nga addang tapno malabanan 
ti panagbalbaliw ti klima. Agkandidatoak para iti pannakapili manen tapno maibangon ti progreso 
nga inaramidtayo ken idepensa ti demokrasiatayo. Mapadayawanak a mangirepresentar kadakayo 
iti Senado, ken sipapakumbabak a kiddawen ti butosyo iti daytoy a panagbobotos.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HIRONO, Mazie K.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Mazie K. Hirono 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estados Unidos
mazieforhawaii.com
info@mazieforhawaii.com
(808) 453-0555
 Tapno Mangabak, panangipatary iti kampania a naisentro iti Dios, panangikondukta 
iti bagik kas maysa a Gentleman a Kristiano bayat nga ikabilko manen ti moralidad a kinadesente 
iti diskursotayo iti publiko, Pasardengen dagiti awan patinggana a gubat, Panangsalaknib kadagiti 
kalintegan dagiti nagannak ken estudiante manipud iti panang-brainwash ti gender ideology, 
ken panangilinteg iti piskal a barkotayo tapno adda gundaway dagiti agtatrabaho a pamilia a 
sumayaat ken rumang-ay. Ama ti 8, apong ti 13, beterano ti USMC ken Desert Storm, 16-tawen a 
Representante ti Estado iti Hawaii.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MCDERMOTT, Bob
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Robert C. McDermott 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estados Unidos
www.votemcdermott.com
Representativemcdermott@gmail.com
(808) 371-4605
 Siak ni Emma Jane Avila Pohlman. Maysaak nga Earth Lawyer ken Mediator. 
Nagadalak iti Philosophy ken Political Science iti University of Southern California (USC) ken 
nagun-od ko ti Juris Doctor ko iti Loyola Law School. Mamatiak iti nasayaat a gobierno ken 
fundamental core principles. Ti sentral a pokusko ket danom. Amin nga umili ti Hawai’i ket nasken 
a maaddaan ti nadalos a danom. Daytoy ti kangrunaan a responsibilidad ti gobiernotayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
POHLMAN, Emma Jane Avila
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Emma Jane Avila Pohlman 
Partido Berde
Senador iti Estados Unidos
emmajanehawaii@icloud.com
(808) 960-76802024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral15Representante ti Estados Unidos I
 Aloha. Kadagitoy tiempo a narigat, ditay masapul ti ad-adu a panagsisina ken 
pagintutuleng. Masapultayo ti napigsa, natibker a panangidaulo para iti pudno a solusyon dagiti 
pudno a karit. Naipasngay ken dimmakkelak idiay Hilo ken nakaramotak iti entero a Hawai’i. 
Addaanak iti full a karera iti linteg ken negosyo, walo a tawen iti Pagpandayan Linteg tayo iti 
Hawai’i, maysa a nasayaat a pamilya. Addaanak itan iti sangapulo a tawen a seniority iti Kongreso. 
Nagtakemak kadagiti napateg a posisyon kas iti House Appropriations Committee tayo a 
mangponpondo iti pederal a gobiyerno tayo. Nakilabanak para kadagita napateg a panag-abante 
iti pagilian tayo tapno masolbar dagiti krisis kas kuma iti COVID, Red Hill ken Maui para iti Hawai’i. 
Kanayon a mamatiak a kaya tayo ken nasken nga agbirok tayo iti nasay-sayaat a wagas tapno 
umabante, nga agkakadwa. Awan agpukpukkaw ken agik-ikkis. Sipupudno laeng a sangoen dagiti 
karittayo, napasnek a panagtrabaho kenpanangileppas iti trabaho. Dayta ti kasapulan. Dayta ti 
inaramid ko. Dayta ti ididiayak. Sipapakumbabak a dumawat iti suportayo. Mahalo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
CASE, Ed
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Edward E. Case 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estados Unidos, Dist I
www.edcase.com
edcase@edcase.com
(808) 546-9509
 Aloha! Siyak ni Patrick Largey, ket agkandidatoak para iti Kongreso iti 1st 
Congressional District ti Hawaii. Naipasngay ken dimmakkel idiay Hudson, Masachusetts, 
inawagak a pagtaengak ti Hawaii manipud naidestinoak ditoy iti US Air Force idi 1985. Maseknanak 
kadagiti tao, iti daga ken dagiti tradisyon daytoy. Suportaran ken dependarak ti Konstitusyon iti 
US. Maysaak a pro-Life, pro-2nd Amendment, pro-US Military ken Panangipatungpal iti Linteg iti 
US. Nagserbiak iti 23 a tawen iti Militar ken Panangipatungpal iti Linteg iti US. Pagragragsakak ti 
panagserbi kadagiti tao, isunga agkandidatoak para iti posisyon. Ay-ayatek iti pagilian tayo, ngem 
saanak a naragsak iti agdama a panggep ken makadadael a pagannurutan ti administrasyon. 
Maiparbeng iti umili iti Hawaii ti nasaysayaat pay. Masapul a masimpa ti balay ti piskalyatayo, 
umuna, ken maisardeng iti panaggastos iti binilbilyon a $$$ kadagiti pagilian a saan unay 
mangayat kadatayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
LARGEY, Patrick C.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Patrick C. Largey 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estados Unidos, Dist I
freedom4hawaii.com
patricklargey4congress@gmail.com
(808) 304-4006
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral16Representante ti Estados Unidos II
 Naipasngay iti Honolulu, agnanaed iti Maui. Iti naadal ko iti Economics ti nangted 
kaniak iti kapadasan a mangobserbar ken mangusig iti dumakdakes a kondision ti pinansial 
a sangsanguentayo amin. Adda iti binmabaan ti kabaelan a gumatang. Maysa a resulta ti 
kinadesperado kas ikagkagumaan dagiti umili a pakanen ti pamiliada. Maiturturungak iti 
panangibtor, panagbalin a nadayaw, ken Ispirito ti Aloha. Itakder ko dagiti umili iti komunidadtayo. 
Adda ti dua a kangrunaan a partido ti politika ket tapno maaddaan iti napudno a tugaw iti 
lamisaan, nasken a maaddaan iti bipartisan a presensia iti Washington. Siakon dayta a tao. 
Kasapulan ti Kampaniak dagiti agboluntaryo. Dumawdawat kami ti agdonar ti pinansial. 
Botosandak tapno makapagserbiak kadakayo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
BOND, Steve
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Steven R. Bond 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estados Unidos, Dist II
votestevebond.com
votestevebond@gmail.com
(808) 756-3638
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MEYER, Randall Kelly
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Randall Kelly Meyer 
Awan Partidona
Representante iti Estados Unidos, Dist II
randallmeyer2000@yahoo.com
(541) 521-4639
 Manipod iti Pāpaʻaloa iti Isla ti Hawaiʻi, agingga iti Puʻunēnē ti Maui, agingga iti Puhi 
ti Kauaʻi, mapan iti dimmakkelan a Kāneʻohe-inawagan ti pamiliak iti Second Congressional 
District ti Hawai’i’ a pagtaengan ti lima a henerasion. Para kaniak, ti panagserbi iti Kongreso ket 
personal ken maipapan daytoy iti panangsigurado a makita ti sumaruno a henerasion nga adda 
ti masakbayanda iti daytoy ay-ayatenda a lugar. Kayat a saoen dayta nga agpatpatakder tayo iti 
pagnaedan a mabaelan dagiti umili a bayadan. Agtrabaho tapno masigurado iti access kadaiti 
serbisyo ti taripati ti salun-at ken salun-at ti panunot. Pannangaramid iti oportunidad iti pagadalan 
ken nasayaat a trabaho. Panangkissay iti gastos iti panagbiag iti isuamin manipod iti makan ken 
yutilidad agingga iti gas ken reseta agas. Itugot ko ti kinagagarko kas maysa nga ina ti Kongreso 
tapno adda malpas ken maaywanan dagiti umilitayo ken komunidad a kasla iti pamilia. Adun 
ti naaramid tayo nga agkakadwa, ngem adu pay ti nasken a maaramid. Dawaten toy numo iti 
panangikonsiderayo ken iti botosyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TOKUDA, Jill N.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jill N. Tokuda 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estados Unidos, Dist II
tokudaforhawaii.com
jill@tokudaforhawaii.com
 Dimmakkel ni Aaron Toman iti Oahu ket idi nataengangen, nagtaeng daytoy iti Hilo a 
banda ti Big Island. Naamiris ni Aaron nga awan ti nakaskasdaaw a wagas nga adda ti agparang a 
mangisimpa iti political landscape tayo, nu kayat na a makakita iti panagbaliw, nasken nga isuna 
ti agbalin a panagbaliw! Iti 11 point a plataporma ni Aaron ket nagudua-gudua iti tallo a seksion: 
Simpaen ti Congreso, Simpaen iti Pagilian, ken Simpaen ti Hawaii; iti kangrunaan a puntos ke 
Congressional Term Limits, Karbengan nga agbotos iti Teritoryo ti US, Panangbaliw iti Jones Act a 
mangisina iti Hawaii, ken panangikkat iti Qualified Immunity manipod iti Sistema ti Hustisya. Maal-
allukoy a mangbasa iti buo a plataporma ni Aaron iti website na a LimitThePower.com. Iti tawen 
2024 ket isu ti tawen nga ilaksid ti Amerika iti sistema ti duwa a partido! Makipaset iti pakasaritaan 
babaen iti panangibotos iti umuna a Libertarian a Congressman ken iti kaunaan a House Minority 
Leader manipod iti maikatlo a partido! Ni Aaron Toman ti maika-3 a Pagpilian iti Hawaii ken iti 
Umuna a Pilien!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TOMAN, Aaron
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Aaron M. Toman 
Partido Libertarian
Representante iti Estados Unidos, Dist II
www.limitthepower.com
limitthepowerhi@gmail.com
(808) 756-0790
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral17Senador ti Estado Dist 3
 Nalaos ti panagyamanko iti prebilihio nga agserbi kas Senador ti Distrito 3 
manipod 2018, maysa daytoy nga oportunidad a nangipaay kaniak iti posision a makatulong 
nga isabet dagiti kasapulan ti komunidadtayo, nu sadinno ket nauneg ti pannakairamotko. 
Manipod iti panangipangabak iti pagsayaatan iti access ti nalaka a pagnaedan, pangpapigsa 
iti sistem ti edukasion ti Estado, ken panangitandudo iti agsasabali nga ekonomia, agingga iti 
panangitandudo kadagiti grassroots nga inisyatibo, ti kangrunaan a pokusko ket agtalinaed a 
mangpapigsa iti timek ti Kona, Kaʻū, ken Volcano iti Kapitolyo. Kas Majority Leader iti Senado, 
epektibo a nausar ko ti akemko a mangidadaulo iti panangsigurado iti kinapatas para iti Isla ti 
Hawai’i. Iti suportayo, namnamaek ti panangituloyko a mangilaban kadagiti polisia a mangitag-ay 
iti amin a residente ken mangaywan iti wagas ti biag iti Estadotayo. Agtalinaedak nga addaan 
ti komitment nga agserbi iti Distrito 3 ti Senado, nga agipaay iti resulta a mangbenepisyo 
iti Estadotayo iti adu pay a henerasion. Mahalo a nasapa para iti talek ken agtultuloy a 
pannakitinnulongyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KANUHA, Dru Mamo
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Dru Mamo Kanuha 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estado, Dist 3
drukanuha.com
info@drukanuha.com
(808) 329-4067
 Panangarakop iti baro a panawen ti politika iti Hawaii nga addaan iti sentido-
kumon! Aramiden tayo idi dalan para ti nasayaat a panagbaliw, transparency, ken progreso. Iti 
panagtitinnulong tayo, makaaramid tayo iti nasayaat a masakbayan para kadagiti ay-ayaten tayo 
nga isla.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SULLIVAN, Kurt (Sulli)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kurt E. Sullivan 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estado, Dist 3
kurt.sullivan@sulburk.com
(808) 300-9809
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral18Senador ti Estado Dist 6
 Aloha! Siak ni Angus McKelvey ket agyamanak kenka ken iti pamiliam iti prebilihio 
nga agserbi kas Senador ti Estadoyo. Naipasngay ken dimmakkelak ditoy ket maaw-awaganak a 
mangprotektar iti Hawaii ken iti kapategan a pamataudanna - dagiti umilitayo. Nakakomitak para 
iti nalaka a pagnaedan; middle-class tax relief; ken sustainable nga aramid tapno maaywanan ti 
aglawlawtayo ken matulongan dagiti pamilia a rumang-ay. Kinaritko dagiti desision dagiti adda iti 
kangatuan ken itultuloyko a mangkalikagum iti transparency ken panangilak-am iti amin manipod 
iti gobiernotayo. Makipagtakderak kadagiti residente ti Maui iti panagsagaba ti islatayo gapo iti 
Lahaina Wildfire. Iti botosyo, ituloyko ti agtrabaho tapno makikoordinarak ken maipatungpalko 
dagiti panagregget ti gobierno ken dagiti bureaucracy a mangap-apektar kadatayo; ken makaala 
iti pondo para iti panagbangon ti Maui. Nakakomitak para iti panaglasat, pannakaagas, ken panag-
andortayo. Iti panagtitinnulongtayo, bumangontayo ken siguruen tayo nga adda iti narang-rang-
ay, nataltalged, ken sustainable a masakbayan dagiti umilitayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MCKELVEY, Angus L.K.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Angus L.K. McKelvey 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estado, Dist 6
mac4senate6@gmail.com
(808) 870-8644
 Kayatmo kadi a makita ti Maui nga agtalinaed iti agpayso a kinadungngo ti ALOHA na 
ken nabaknang a kultura ti Hawaii? Kayatmo metlang kadi a maaddaan iti aksesibol a pagnaedan, 
ado nga utility, ken nangato a sweldo ti trabaho? Saantayo a nasken nga agkompromiso; mabalin 
a maaddaantayo iti pareho! Ibotosdak ta siguraduek a saantayo nga ilako daytoy napintas nga 
isla kadagiti interes ti korporasion wenno dayo a agpupuunan nga awanan ti respeto kadagiti 
ʻāina ken kadagiti umili nga agnanaed ditoy. Saantayon nga agsayang iti oras, siguraduek a 
mangngeg iti bosesyo, aggarawtayon! Ikarik a makikatongtongak kadagiti KOMUNIDAD kanayon, 
a MAKIRIKNA kadagiti parikotyo ken agusarak iti SENTIDO KUMON tapno agbirokak iti solusion 
iti lehislatura. Agaramidtayo amin iti positibo nga addang, addaanak iti enerhia, passion, ken 
komitment a mangpatalinaed iti Maui nō ka ‘oi, Ibotos ni Sheila Walker. Nasken nga Umuna iti 
Komunidad iti Maui!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
WALKER, Sheila
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Sheila A. Walker 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estado, Dist 6
votesheilawalker.com
votesheilawalker@gmail.com
(808) 344-8644
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral19Senador ti Estado Dist 7
 Aloha, siak ni Lynn Pualani DeCoite ket dawdawatek ti suportayo tapno agserbiak 
manen iti maysa pay a termino kas Senador ti Estado para iti Dist 7 . Naiyanak iti Honolulu 
ken dimmakkel iti Moloka’i, ti pannakapadakkelko iti talon ti pamilia ket isu ti nangisaad iti 
pundasyon iti panagregget ko iti agrikultura ken panangaywan iti aglawlaw. Iti panag-pokus iti 
transparency, kinaresponsable, ken panangiraman iti amin, nakakomitak a mangirepresentar iti 
agduduma a boses ken kasapulan ti komunidad tayo. Dedikadoak a mangpasayaat iti panagbiag 
dagiti masakupak. Nagserbi a kas Assistant Majority Floor Leader ken Mangidadaulo iti Energy, 
Economic Development, ken Tourism Committee, ituloyko nga iyun-una ti panangpaado iti makan, 
panangitandudo iti nalaka a pagnaedan, ken panangprotektar iti aglawlaw. Iti daytoy a panawen 
ti rigat, misionko ti panangpapigsa iti boses ti komunidadtayo. Napateg iti bosesmo, ket addatoyak 
a mangsigurado a mangeg daytoy. Dawatek ti suportayo tapno maituloyko a pagsebiankayo kas 
Senador ti Estado para iti Dist 7 .
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DECOITE, Lynn Pualani
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Lynn P. DeCoite 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estado, Dist 7
lynndecoite.org
friendsoflynndecoite@gmail.com
 Naipasngay iti Pacific Island of Guam, naadalko iti balor ti trabaho iti nasapa a tawen 
babaen iti panangtulong ko a mangpataray iti bassit a paglakuan ken talon ti pamiliak. Idi 16 
ak, addaakon iti pagtrabahuan, a mangpampamayat iti nasayaat nga etiko ti panagtrabaho a 
makaaramid iti balor para kadagiti tao a nakalikmot kaniak. Idi 19 ti tawenko, binantayak iti uppat 
a paglakuan a nangted kaniak iti kapadasan nga agidaulo. Idi 2005, nakipasetak iti USCG, ket 
nagserbiak iti innem a tawen iti Oahu. Idi 2013, nakipasetak iti lokal a puwersa ti agtatrabaho iti 
Maui ket iti damo a business trip ko iti Maui, nasindian ti nauneg a koneksionko iti naaywanan 
a pintas na daytoy, kasla nga iti Guam. Manipod idi, maysaak a Safety Officer, Safety Director, 
Safety Specialist, ken ita ket ti Operations Manager para iti County iti Maui. Pagtaengak iti Maui, 
inarakopko iti kulturana ken nakakomitak para iti pannakaaywanna. Numan iti panangprotektar iti 
landscape ken komunidadna, nabendisionanak iti amin a kanitok iti daytoy a paraiso.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MACARAEG, Gabby
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Gabby Junior C. Macaraeg 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estado, Dist 7
gabbymacaraeg.maui@gmail.com
(808) 657-3175
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral20Senador ti Estado Dist 12
 Aloha, siyak ni Shotaro Dabbs. Naipasngay ken dimmakkelak iti Waikiki, ken kas 
iti kaaduan a simmango iti rigat ti kinaubing, kasta met ti pannakaikulong ti tatangko ken 
kinaawan pagnaedanmi. Pinadakkelnak ti nagaget a nanangko a nagtrabaho iti ado nga oras 
tapno adda pagbiagmi. Dagitoy a kapadasak ti nangpauneg iti komitment ko iti komunidadtayo. 
Agkandidatoak tapno irepresentarkayo iti Senado ti Estado para ti Distrito 12. Dagiti kangrunaan a 
prioridadko ket ti mangsolbar iti kinaawan ti pagnaedan, panangpasayaat iti kinatalged ti publiko, 
ken panangpasayaat iti panagadal. No sangsangkamaysatayo, makabukeltayo iti nasaysayaat 
a masakbayan para iti Hawaii babaen ti panangpalawa kadagiti serbisyo para iti salun-at ti 
panunot, panangpasayaat kadagiti addang para iti kinatalged ti publiko, ken panangited kadagiti 
manursuro iti dakdakkel nga autonomia tapno maidauloda ti individualized a panagadal. 
Mamatiak iti panagtitinnulong a solusyon ken pannakibiang ti komunidad tapno epektibo a 
masolbar dagitoy a pakarigatan. Mahalo para iti suportayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DABBS, Shotaro
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Shotaro L. Dabbs 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estado, Dist 12
shotarodabbs.com
shotarodabbs2024@gmail.com
(808) 548-1362
 Kas maysa a Senador iti Demokrat, napagasatanak nga agserbi kadakayo iti Kakaako, 
Ala Moana, Moiliili, McCully, ken Waikiki. Naibilangak iti Gabinete ni Gobernador Waihee kas deputy 
iti labor department ken personnel director; iti Judiciary kas administrador iti korte; ken iti UH 
kas assistant ti bise presidente. Adda seryoso a problema ti napintas a purok tayo -- kinaawan 
iti pagtaengan, krimen ken ringgor, panagngato iti danum ti baybay, kinakurang dagiti berde nga 
espasyo, panagkasapulan iti tulong ti kupuna ken keiki. Itatta, nakuti tayon ti ringgor; naiyalis 
dagiti awan balayna iti nasaysayaat a lugar; panangaramid iti “Natalged” a panangkontrol iti 
krimen; a mangipatuloy iti kinaawan dagiti natatayag ken nangingina nga istruktura iti igid ti 
Kakaako. Kasapulan tayo latta dagiti komprehensibo a solusyona mangpasardeng iti kinaawan 
dagiti pagtaengan babaen iti opisina ti awanan pagnaedan iti entero nga estado; agpatakder 
iti nalaka a pagtaengan; ipatungpal dagiti linteg kontra kadagiti kanayon a naranggas a 
managsalungasing; pasardengen iti sobra a ringgor; pondoan ti lugar para iti pannaripato 
kadagiti kupuna ken dalan iti karera kadagiti keiki; ken; agipatungpal iti plano maipanggep iti 
panagngato ti danum iti baybay. Addaak nga agserbi kadakayo. Agtitinnulong tayo nga agaramid 
iti nasaysayaat a komunidad ken estado. Maidawat nga “Ibotos tayo ni Sharon.”
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MORIWAKI, Sharon Y.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Sharon Y. Moriwaki 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estado, Dist 12
sharonmoriwaki.com
sharonymoriwaki@gmail.com
(808) 428-1348
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral21Senador ti Estado Dist 16
 Maiparbeng iti Hawaii ti nasaysayaat pay ngem iti maal-alana ita. Naipasngay ken 
dimmakkelak iti Hawaii, isu iti pagtaengak kasta met iti kagudua ti pamiliak. Nakitak ti dadakkel 
a panagbaliw iti unos ti panagbiagko—ado ti nakaskasdaaw, ngem ti dakesna, ado met ti para 
it nadakdakes. Iti panagtalinaedko iti mainland iti uneg ti 30 tawen, iti Japan iti 13, ken 1 iti 
Canada, maawatak dagiti kapanunutan ti dadduma a lugar ken dadduma a tatao. Inyam-ammo 
ni tatangko ti Konstotusion ti U.S. keniak idi ubingak pay ket naappresyar kon iti kinaubingko iti 
panangprotektarna kadagiti karbengan ti maysa nga indibidwal ken dagiti minoridad. Kasla mayat 
unay dagitoy iti ubing a kapanunotak. Dagidiay a karbengan ad-adda nga agpeggad kadagitoy 
(CBDC, dagiti kapilitan a bakuna, kapilitan a maskara, ken ado pay). Ilabanko iti wayawaya, uray 
pay no siak laeng ti adda iti legislature a mangaramid iti partikular a pagsasaritaan. Para iti 
kanayunan a impormasion, kitaento ti mapaspasangasangan a websiteko.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
BEEKMAN, Pat
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Patricia Y. Beekman 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estado, Dist 16
kaaina@mac.com
(808) 221-9695
 Aloha! Siyak ni Brandon Elefante, agdama a miyembro ti Senado ti Estado iti 
Hawai’i, Distrito 16 (‘Aiea, Pearl City, ken Hālawa). Dakkel a pakaidayawan ti biagko nga agserbi 
iti pampubliko a position iti napalabas a 10 tawen. Iti daytoy napalabas a tawen, sigagagetak a 
nakipagtrabaho kadagiti kakadwak iti state legislature tapno masolbar dagiti kritikal a parikot, 
manipod iti panangpasayaat iti panang-access iti nalaka a pagnaedan, panangsuportar kadagiti 
kritikal a proyekto ti imprastruktura, ken panangitandudo para iti nadaldalos nga aglawlaw. 
Adu ti nagun-od tayo a napapateg a pasamak iti panagkakadwatayo, ngem ado pay ti nasken 
nga aramidentayo. Iti amin a tawenko iti serbisyo publiko, naadalko ti kinapateg ti agdengngeg 
kadagiti pakaseknanyo, pannakitinnulong kadagiti agduduma a partido, ken panagtrabaho a 
di mabannog tapno makabirok iti umno a solusyon iti kaaduan a pakarigrigatantayo. Mamatiak 
a ti kapadasak, dedikasyon, ken panagayatko iti komunidadtayo ket isu ti makagapo a siyak ti 
kamayatan a mapili amangirepresentar kadagiti interesyo iti Senado ti Estado. Mahalo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ELEFANTE, Brandon
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Brandon J.C. Elefante 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estado, Dist 16
www.brandonelefante.com
info@brandonelefante.com
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral22Senador ti Estado Dist 18
 Aloha, siyak ni Senador Michelle Kidani ken agkandidatoak para iti pannakapilik 
manen iti Senado iti Estado ti Hawaii. Mahalo la unay iti panangpalubosyo kaniak a Senadoryo 
manipod idi 2009. Iti agdama ket siyak iti Bise Presidente iti Senado ti Estado ti Hawai’i ken 
Mangidadaulo iti Komite ti Edukasion. Nu palubusandak, kayat ko pay a pagserbian daytoy distrito 
tayo iti maysa pay a termino tapno maituloy ko a suportaran ti Superintendente ken Departamento 
ti Edukasion tapno masiguro a maaddaan iti kasayaatan nga edukasion nga ipaay iti Hawai’i dagiti 
ubbing tayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KIDANI, Michelle N.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Michelle N. Kidani 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estado, Dist 18
mnkidani.com
mnkidani@gmail.com
(808) 754-4442
 Iti napalabas a 36 a tawen nakalisikami ken baketko iti komunismo. Nasayaat ti 
edukasionmi (Masters iti nuclear physics ken engineering), saankami nga immay iti Estados 
Unidos ti Amerika para kadagiti handout, ngem nagtrabahokami a sipipinget tapno maaddaan 
iti narang-ay a biag para iti pamiliami, ken masakbayan dagiti annak dagiti annakmi. Ammomi a 
posible itan. Nupay daddadaelen ti trahedia a kontrol dagiti tattao iti agdama a gobiernotayo dagiti 
biag. Tunggal ubing ket agturong iti ab-ababa a biag ngem kadagiti dadakkelda. Masapultayo ti 
bottom up a tignay dagiti agtatrabaho a tattao tapno mabaliktad daytoy a turungen. Adda dagiti 
pudno a solusion (saan a “Green Deal” scam) para iti self-sufficiency iti produksion ti taraon, 
enerhia, nalaka a pagnaedan. Awan ti agtatrabaho a pamilia ti marigatan iti pinansial wenno 
mapilitan a pumanaw iti daytoy napintas nga estado. Mairepresentaranda manen. Kas sientista 
a makium-uman kadagiti eksperto ken buyogen ti nagkaykaysa a suportayo pasardengentayo 
dagitoy naagum nga espesial nga interes ti korporasion a mangdadael kadagiti politikotayo, 
mangdadael iti sistema ti panagpipili, ken mangdadael kadagiti taga-Hawaii. Iyegko ti sentido 
komon, kinalinteg, ken agsubli ti Aloha iti lamisaan ti negosasion. Mahalo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SVRCINA, Emil
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Emil  Svrcina 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estado, Dist 18
EmilClearChoice.com
emilsvrcina@gmail.com
(808) 256-6473
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral23Senador ti Estado Dist 22
 Aloha, siyak ni Samantha DeCorte. Tuboak a Taga-Hawaii ken nakaramut iti pammatik 
ken iti kulturak. Kalkalpas mi a nangselebrar iti maika-27 nga anibersaryomi ken lakayko, ket 
addaan kami iti 3 nga adda kabaelanna a lallaki. Idi 2022, nagkandidatoak para iti Senador 
iti Distrito 22 iti Estado ti Hawaii ket nagkurangak iti 40 a botos. Isu iti kaasetgan a laban iti 
eleksiyon ti 2022. Manipod idi, nagtrabahoak iti pareho a branch ti Lehislatura iti Estado ti 
Hawaii, kasta met iti House of Representatives ken iti agdama iti Senado, naaddaanak iti umdas 
a kapadasan panggep iti pagannurutan ken naadaanak kadagiti importante a relasyon. Kas 
resulta, nakasaganaak a mangtungpal kadagiti responsibilidad iti posisyon iti damo nga aldaw. 
Nagbalinak a miembro ti board ti distrito ti purokmi ken pinilidak dagiti kakadwak a board member 
nga agserbi kas Pangulo. Pakibisitayo ti websit ko para iti nayon nga impormasyon: www.
SamanthaDeCorte.com. Sipapakumbabaak nga agkiddaw iti botosyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DECORTE, Samantha
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Samantha M. DeCorte 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estado, Dist 22
www.SamanthaDecorte.com
samantha@samanthadecorte.com
(808) 306-9604
 Aloha! Siak ni Cedric Asuega Gates, ken nabayagakon a residente iti 96792 a 
komunidad. Ipanpannakkelko a nalpasak iti Kamaile Elementary, Wai’anae Intermediate, Wai’anae 
High School, YouthBuild Honolulu, ken Leeward Community College-Wai’anae Moku. Agserserbiak 
iti agdama a Representante iti Estado ti Distrito 45, a mangsaksakop iti Mākua, Mākaha, ken 
Wai’anae. Nagserbiak a dati iti komunidadtayo kas Chairman ti Wai’anae Coast Neighborhood 
Board ken dati a miyembro iti Board of Directors para iti Wai’anae Coast Comprehensive 
Health Center. Manipod nabotosanak iti posision, nakagun-odak iti nasurok nga $250 milyon 
a pondo para iti kalsadatayo, pagadalan, imprastruktura, parke ti estado, panangliklik ti uram, 
panangaywan ti salun-at, kinaawan ti pagnaedan ken dadduma pay. Iti tinawen kas agpanpanay 
linteg, nakaipasaak iti linteg tapno mapasayaat iti panagbiag iti 96792, ken planok nga ituloy 
dagitoy kas sumaruno a Senadoryo. Sipapakumbabaak a dumawat iti botosyo ken iti botos ti 
Ohanayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
GATES, Cedric Asuega
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Cedric S. Gates 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estado, Dist 22
CEDRICFORHAWAII.COM
CEDRIC4HAWAII@GMAIL.COM
(808) 457-6385
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral24Senador ti Estado Dist 23
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
AWA, Brenton
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Brenton P. Awa 
Partido Republikan
Senador iti Estado, Dist 23
friendsofbrentonawa@gmail.com
(808) 454-3017
 Ni Ben Shafer ket maikapat a henerasion iti Taga-Hawaii manipod Kahana Valley. 
Nabayag nga mangitantandudo ti komunidad, maysa isuna a mangidadaulo iti laban kontra iti 
panangpalawa iti Turtle Bay Resort. Agtatrabaho ni Ben para iti International Alliance Theatrical 
and Stage Employees ken Fil I.A.T.S.E. Local 665, ken agserserbi isuna iti O’ahu Island Burial 
Council. Mamati ni Ben a napateg ti integridad ken ti panagmaymaysa ti dalan iti panagballigi. 
Iti pannakipagrikan ken respeto ni Ben iti daduma ket makatulong a mangtarabay iti trabahona. 
Dagiti nalawa ken agsasabali a distritotayo ket agkasapulan iti aktibo a mangidaulo nga epektibo 
a mangirepresentar iti amin a komunidadtayo. Agserbi ni Ben a pono Senador a kasapulan ken 
karbengan ti distritotayo. Ti nangina a presyo ti pagnaedan ket isu ti mangparparigat kadagiti 
umili. Kasapulan ti gobierno ti ad-adda pay a panangtakder ken basbassit a basura. Nasken a 
protektarantayo ti kalidad ti biagtayo, liklikan ti ado la unay a panagrang-ay, protektaran dagiti 
dagatayo a pang-agrikultura, nayunan ti produksion iti lokal a makan, pagtalinaeden ng mayat 
dagiti kalsadatayo, ken aywanan dagiti kupuna ken keikitayo. Aloha, Lōkahi, Pono.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SHAFER, Ben
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Benjamin D. Shafer 
Partido Demokratic
Senador iti Estado, Dist 23
bdshafer@gmail.com
(808) 388-5777
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral25Representante ti Estado Dist 3
 “Lalaingen Tayo Pay!” Ikkaten ti Jones Act. I-disinfect tayo ti House. Agtultuloy a 
Panagrang-ay babaen ti Wayawaya. Irepresentarko ti organic a panag-homestead iti komunidad 
ti Big Island. Agpada ti arapaaptayo ken agpada nga abot ti lablabasantayo iti kalsada. Mabalin 
a nakitadak nga agtuktukar kadagiti kalsada, agserserbi kadagiti agkasapulan, ken agdeng-
dengngeg kadagiti amin a klase ti tao. Mamatiak a kayatttayo dagiti agpapada a banbanag: 
narang-ay, natalged, ken nawaywaya a komunidad ken ti wayawayatayo a protektado manipod iti 
panakibiang ti gobierno. Sangsangkamaysatayo, ipatulodtayo ti nalawag a mensahe iti agpalpalia 
a sistema ti dua a partido: “Lalaingen pay.” Nu patugawendak nga agserbi iti State House of 
Representatives, ikagumaak nga agtrabaho para kadakayo. Basaek a naimbag ti tunggal bill. Ti 
kapadasak iti parliamentary procedure, legislative review, ken legal theory ti mangsigurado a 
kabaelak nga usaren iti nasaysayaat ti posision ngem siasinuman a kandidato; dikayto paayen. 
Lalaingen Tayo Pay.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MARTIN, Austin D. (Shiloh)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Austin D. Martin 
Partido Libertarian
Representante iti Estado, Dist 3
libertarianhawaii.com
rapidreason@gmail.com
(940) 368-0364
 Aloha East Hawai‘i! Ti kangrunaan a prioridadko ket agtultuloy a mangpalaka iti 
panagbirok ti pagbiagan para kadagiti lokal nga residente. Nakaaramid kami iti addang nga 
agturong iti husto a dalan ket ikagumaak ti mangituloy iti daytoy a momentum nga agturong 
iti patas a tax code ken ad-ado pay nga oportunidad para kadagiti baro a pamilia kasta met 
kadagiti kupuna. Kanayunan iti panangaramidko iti amin a kabaelak a mangpababa ti gastos ti 
panagbiag ken agaramid iti pabor a kondision ti ekonomia, ituloyko nga idur-as ti pannakabaliw ti 
pannaripato iti salun-at iti East Hawai’i babaen iti panangpalawa iti Hilo Medical Center ken baro a 
pasilidad iti Puna. Mahalo para iti konsiderasion ken agyamanak iti panagbotosyo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TODD, Christopher L.T.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Christopher L.T. Todd 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 3
www.christoshirotodd.org
christmastodd@gmail.com
(808) 825-8636
 Aloha, siak, ni Kanoa Hauoli Wilson ket agkadidatoak a representante iti estado para 
iti distrito 3 kas kandidato ti Republikan. Kanoa Wilson (808)-365-3033 kanoaw@gmail.com Kas 
representante iti distrito 3, kayatko ti agpokus kadagiti parikot iti agdama bayat a nakapokusda 
kadagiti awan kapapaayanna a kas iti panangideklara iti Shaka nga opisial a gesture ti Hawaii 
wenno parikot a kapadana. Sakbay nga agtalinaedak iti county iti Hawaii, maysaaka merchant 
marine ken nadangranak a nangleppas iti karerak, manipod idi, nangpatakderak iti bassit a 
negosyo a mangtulong kadagiti umili nga agkasapulan bayat ti panangirugik kadagiti libre a 
pasamak iti komunidad para kadagiti nakurkurang ti gasatna. Payamanak ti konsiderasyonyo
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
WILSON, Kanoa
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kanoa Hauoli Wilson 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 3
kanoaw@gmail.com
(808) 365-3033
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral26Representante ti Estado Dist 4
 Naipasngay ken dimmakkel iti Hawaii, ken Ina iti 3, natural a mannakaaat ken 
mannangaasiak. Maysaak nga innovative ken piliek ti addaan sentido kumon a wagas a 
panangsolbar iti parikot. Manipod kinaubingko, nagserbiak iti agduduma a non-profit organization 
ken nangidauloak iti ado a pasamak iti komunidad tapno makaidatagak iti namnama ken solusion 
para kadagiti umilitayo. Kas residente ti napintas a distrito 4, mangnamnamaak a mangituloy, saan 
lang nga agbalin a boses, ngem nalaing met a dumngeg kadagiti kasapulan daytoy a komunidad. 
Kasapulantayo dagiti linteg a mangsuporta kadagiti umilitayo. Saan a mangpatalaw kadakuada. 
Kasapulantayo dagiti dumngeg nga agpanpanday linteg. Ado dagiti linteg a naipasa iti lehislatura 
a saan a mangsuporta iti pagsayaatan dagiti umilitayo, ket daksanggasat nga ado kadagitoy a 
linteg ti sinuportaran dagiti mismo nga inbotos tayo iti posision. Maysaak a babai a matakderak ti 
saok ken maitalek kaniak ti biag ditoy distritotayo. Siak ti namnama.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HO, Keikilani
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Keikilani G.P. Ho 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 4
keikilanikealoha@gmail.com
(808) 437-0670
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ILAGAN, Greggor
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Greggor Johanson P . Ilagan 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 4
voteilagan.com
greggorilagan@gmail.com
(808) 557-5819
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral27Representante ti Estado Dist 5
 Panawenen tapno imula dagiti bukel ti makatulong a panagbalbaliw ti politika. 
Kasapulan daytoy ti panagpanunot iti ruar dagiti beddeng ti Partido politikal. Nupay kasayaatan 
a maitunos kadagiti Libertariano dagiti pannirigak (ad-adu a wayawaya, basbassit a gobierno), 
kangrunaanna nga independienteak. Ti isyu, saan a ti Partido, masapul a maiturong dagiti 
panagregget nga agsayaat. Ti sumaganad ket ababa unay a pakagupgopan dagiti gandatko. 
(www.ffogel.net para iti ad-adu pay.) Buis – pagbalinen ti buis ti kita iti estado kadagiti flat 
a porsiento, ikkaten ti sales tax iti taraon ken agas. Aglawlaw – ad-adu a panagregget iti 
panangiparit ken panangikkat kadagiti rumaraut a klase, ken mangipaay kadagiti naan-anay a 
serbisio ti istasion ti panag-recycle (pagibellengan). Panagpipili – ipakat ti online a panagbotos. 
Napolitikaan – limitasion ti termino para kadagiti politiko, ken palawaen ti sesion ti pagpandayan 
linteg manipud lima a bulan agingga iti sangapulo, nga awan ti panagngato ti sueldo dagiti 
politiko. Edukasion – waswasen ti school board ti estado a pabor kadagiti agsina nga board ti isla, 
voucher system. Dagiti Pagbaludan – pokus iti rehabilitasion. Gobierno – iduron ti autoridad nga 
agpababa iti lebel ti county. Dagiti Linteg – palubusan dagiti county a mangilegal iti panagsugal.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
FOGEL, Frederick F.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Frederick F. Fogel 
Partido Libertarian
Representante iti Estado, Dist 5
www.ffogel.net
fogelforfreedom@gmail.com
(808) 265-1659
 Kas madama a representante iti House District 5, natulungak dagiti pinakanakurapay 
a residente ken agtatrabaho a pamilya iti pagilian tayo. Nakakomitak a mangilaban kadagiti 
importante a linteg kas kuma iti mabayadan a panagbakasyon ti pamilya, mabayadan nga aldaw 
nu agsakit, tax fairness, ken pudno a nalaka a pagnaedan. Pagaayatko met ti agtrabaho para iti 
panangaywan iti aglawlaw tayo, mangprotekta iti napateg nga ‘āina tayo kadagiti panagtaud 
ti makadangran, mangpapigsa iti panagsagana tayo para iti emerhensia, ken panangpasayaat 
iti panagsango tayo iti panagbaliw ti klima iti sibubukel nga isla a pagtaengantayo. Iti maudi, 
kanayonak a maysa kadagiti mangitandudo iti karbengan dagiti babbai, Katutubo a programa 
ti Taga Hawaii, access iti dekalidad a taripato ti salun-at, ken civil liberty para kadagiti LGBTQ+ 
a karrubatayo. Iti panagsango iti adu a karit, ammok a kabaelan tayo ti agtitinnulong tapno 
makaaramid tayo iti narang-rang-ay ken masustenar a masakbayan para iti isla a pagtaengan 
tayo. Nakapokusak a mangitunda iti panangidaulo nga addaan aloha para iti ‘ohana yo ken iti 
komunidad tayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KAPELA, Jeanne
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jeanne M. Kapela 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 5
www.jeannekapela.com
jeanne@jeannekapela.com
(808) 854-1148
 Nagnaedak iti Dist 5 manipod uppat ti tawen ko ken napagasatanak a mangpadakkel 
kadagiti annakko ditoy. Kas maysa a nagannak ken Wes Hawaii’s 2020 Teacher of the Year, 
napadasak ti panangkasapulan iti panagbaliw iti agduduma nga aspeto ti edukasion. Agtrabahoak 
para iti panagbalin a responsable, transparency, ken panagpapada para iti amin nga estudyante 
ken pamilia iti sistema ti eskwelaan. Tumakderak para kadagiti karbengan ti nagannak ken 
mamatiak a dagiti estudyante ken pamilia ket rebbeng da a makipaset kadagiti desisyon a pang-
edukasion a makaapekto kadakuada. Masirsirmatak dagiti komunidad nu adinno a respetado ken 
suportado dagiti pamilia kadagiti desisyon da iti edukasion, food sutainability, ken community 
land preservation. Mamatiak nga iti usto a panangmentinar kadagiti kalsada ken imprastruktura 
ket isu ti kangrunaan a prioridad. Nasken nga aywanan tayo dagiti pamilia a mangilablaban a 
mapagtalinaed a pagtaenganda iti Hawai’i. Nasken nga agpuunan tayo kadagiti umili ITA tapno 
masiguro iti nakaay-ayat a masakbayan.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
OYAMA, Ashley
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Ashley K.P. Oyama 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 5
www.ashleyoyama.com
ashley@ashleyoyama.com
(808) 437-0755
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral28Representante ti Estado Dist 6
 Sipapakumbabaak nga agserbi iti Kona kas Representante ti Estadoyo, manipod iti 
Kailua agingga Hōnaunau. Iti umuna a terminok, inpasak iti legislation a mangprotektar iti Kona 
coffee ken mac nut, napapigsak iti depensa ti Hawaii kontra kadagiti makadadael a species, ken 
nagaramidak iti community-based nga inobasion ken economic development. Nakaalaak metlang 
iti pondo para kadagiti nabayagen nga overdue a panangsimpa kadagiti lokal a pagadalan ken 
iti Kona Community Hospital. Nakakomitak iti amin nga Isla ti Hawaii ta ti puon ti pamiliak ket 
manipod iti Hilo, Keaukaha, ʻOpihikao, Kaʻū and Waipiʻo. Kas Napeklan a Taga-Hawaii ken ina, ti 
trabahok iti lehislatura ket nauneg ti kaipapananna, gapo ta pagtaengak ti Hawai’i. Napaneknekak 
nga agtrabahoak iti inaldaw para iti amin a pamilia, tapno iti sumaruno a henerasion ket 
maaddaan iti lugar iti Hawaií a pagnaedan ken maawaganda a pagtaenganda. Mahalo iti 
pammatiyo iti trabaho nga ituloyko nga aramiden iti Lehislatura.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KAHALOA, Kirstin
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kirstin A.K. Kahaloa 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 6
kahaloaforkona.com
vote@kahaloaforkona.com
(808) 430-5821
 Manipod iti Nalabbaga ken Asul, ken amin iti nagbaetan, nagmaymaysatayo iti 
sapasap a karit a sangsanguentayo kas kama’aina. Nupay adda ti nagdudumaantayo, panawenen 
tapno UNAEN tayo dagiti umili ti Hawai’i. Kumadidatoak iti posision tapno iparuarko iti timek ti 
umili. Nasken a agtignaytayon a sigod para iti pagnaedan, kinaawan ti pagnaedan, panagadal, 
ken sobra a pannakibiang ken panaggastos iti gobierno.  Masapultayo met ti agbalin a natibker iti 
krimen ken maaddaantayo iti ad-ado pay a karbengan iti dagatayo. Maysaak a sumupsuporta iti 
karbengan dagiti tao, panagkalap, panag-anop, panagtalon, ken iti wayawayam a mangprotektar 
iti bagim, iti pamiliam, ken iti sanikuam. Maysa ang nga addaan iti bassit a negosyo, addaanak 
iti Bachelors of Science in Criminal Justice ket itultuloyko ti agad-adal iti Kapi’olani Community 
College. Datiak a Board Member iti Hawaii Big Game Fishing Club ken nagtrabahoak para iti 
Hawai’i Small Business Development Center. 
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MADISON, Sylvie M.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Sylvie M. Madison 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 6
www.letsgobigisland.com
vote@letsgobigisland.com
(808) 430-5563
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral29Representante ti Estado Dist 7
 Aloha! Kas maysa a Marine Combat Veteran ti Estados Unidos ken entrepreneur 
a nangaramid iti ado a lokal a trabaho ken nagbiag iti nabay-bay-an a shopping plaza iti 
Kona, nakakomitak nga agserbi iti Distrito 7 ti Hawaii nga adda iti dedikasion. Iti kapadasak iti 
boluntaryo a panangidaulo kas Director ti Kailua Village Business Improvement District ken 
diakono ti simbaan ket mangipakita iti komitment ko kadagiti sursuro ti komunidad ken pamilia. 
Iti Senate Republican Primary ti Estados Unidos idi 2022, nagun-od ko iti kaaduan a botos iti 
Big Island, mangipakita daytoy iti panangsuporta iti sirmatak para iti panagdakkel ti ekonomia, 
panangpababa iti gastos ti biag, ken nalaka a pagnaedan tapno makabukel iti sustainable a 
masakbayan para kadagiti keikitayo iti Isla. Karaman pay ti planok ti panangpasayaat kadagiti 
imprastruktura ken mangsiguro iti accountability ti gobierno iti panaggastosna. Nu mapiliak, ikarik 
ti nakalukat ken transparent a komunikasyon, nga addaan iti regular a pannakipaset babaen iti 
email, tawag, ken public forum – a mangsiguro a mangngeg ti boses ken naayat a mairepresentar 
ti tunggal residente iti Lehislatura ti Estado. Mahalo nui loa para iti botosyo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DALHOUSE, Timothy A. (Tim)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Timothy Alan Dalhouse 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 7
timdalhouse.com
vote4tim@timdalhouse.com
(808) 772-3996
 Ni Nicole Lowen ket inreprepresentarna ti West Hawaii iti State House manipod idi 
2012, ken saan a nabannog a nagtrabaho para iti distritona. Iti mano a tawen, adu ti naala ni 
Nicole a pondo para iti pannakapasayaat dagiti pagadalan, ospital, ken tapno maipatakder ti 
Kona Courthouse, ken ti HCC Palamanui Campus. Kas dati a mannursuro, inlaban ni Nicole iti 
nangatngato a sweldo para kadagiti manursuro ken nasaysayaat a pagadalan para iti keiki, ken 
nagtrabaho isuna para iti ad-ado pay a pagnaedan ken panangsolbar iti nangina a panagbiag 
iti Hawaii. Inkagumaan ni Nicole a suportaan dagiti pamilya nga agtatrabaho, lokal a mannalon 
ken negosyo, ken kas Chair iti Committee on Energy and Environmental Protection, kangrunaan 
nga inasikaso ni Nicole ti panangaywan iti natural a pamataudan ti Hawaii, renewable energy, 
ken panangsolbar iti krisis ti klima. Ar-aramiden ni Nicole ti kabaelanna tapno makatulong ken 
makasao isuna iti umili. Nu mapili manen, ituloyna ti agserbi nga addaan iti integridad, kapadasan, 
ken napasnek a trabaho.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
LOWEN, Nicole
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Nicole E. Lowen 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 7
nicolelowen.com
nicole@nicolelowen.com
(808) 937-8196
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
30Representante ti Estado Dist 8
 Aloha, siyak ni Monique Cobb-Adams Perreira, ipanpannakkel ko a maysaak a tubo 
a Taga-Hawaii, beterano iti US Navy, ken nakapokus iti bassit a negosyo. Nabendisiyonanak nga 
asawa, nanang, ken lola. Iti panagdakkel ko iti Hawai’i ket naimula kaniak ti natibker a panagayat 
iti daytoy a lugar nga aw-awagak a pagtaengan. Nalawag ti misyon ko: ti panangsigurado a saan 
laeng nga agbiag no diket rumang-ay dagiti umili iti Hawai’i kadagiti sumarsaruno a henerasyon. 
Kas kandidatoyo, mamatiak a masapul ng limitarantayo ti gobierno iti pannakibiyangna kadagiti 
biag ken negosyo tayo. Ipasardeng iti Pay-to-play iti gobierno tayo, aramiden tayo a responsable 
dagiti napili ken nadutukan nga opisyal tayo tapno aramiden da iti trabaho da, ken isardeng ti 
panagkurakot. Idasar ko iti sentido-kumon, kina-agpaysu ken panangipapatik a biruken dagiti 
USTO a solusyon tapno masolbar dagiti adu a kamali a pagannuruta a mangdidigra iti Hawai’i. 
Agtitinnulong tayo tapno makaaramid tayo iti USTO a panagbaliw tapnu ken siguradoen iti 
naraniag a masakbayan para kadagiti āina, keiki, ken Hawai’i nei tayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
PERREIRA, Monique CobbAdams
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Monique C.A.K. Perreira 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 8
cobbadamsmo@gmail.com
(808) 938-3370
 Aloha. Siak ni David Tarnas ken agkandidatoak para iti pannakapilik manen kas 
Representante ti Estado para ti House District 8 - North ken South Kohala. Nagnaedak ditoy a 
distrito iti 38 a tawen kasta met ti asawak ken pinadakkel ko dagiti duwa nga annakko idiay 
Waimea. Iti agdama ket agserserbi ak a Mangidadaulo it House Committee iti Judiciary ken 
Hawaiian Affairs ken nagserbi ak iti opisina iti lima a termino. Ikagumaak a solbaren dagiti 
kritikal a problema a sangsanguen ti distrito tayo kas kuma iti panangsuporta iti nalaka a 
pagnaedan, panagadal ti publiko, kinatalged ti publiko, ken panangprotektar iti aglawlaw, kasta 
met iti panangala iti pondo para iti pampubliko a highway, harbor, pagadalan, library, ospital, 
ken dadduma pay a pasilidad ti estado iti distrito tayo. Itultuloy ko nga ikarigatan nga agtrabaho 
tapno matulungak ti pamilia, annak, kupuna tayo, kasta met dagiti negosyo a mangsupsuporta 
iti ekonomiya tayo kas kuma iti agrikultura, turismo, astronomiya, panangaywan ti salun-at, ken 
negosyo a nakabasar iti laing. Para iti ad-adu nga impormasyon, kitaen iti www.votetarnas.com. 
Mahalo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TARNAS, David A.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
David A. Tarnas 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 8
www.votetarnas.com
votetarnas@gmail.com
(808) 987-5810
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral31Representante ti Estado Dist 11
 Ti dedikasion ken mision ko a tumulong iti ekonomia ti Maui kas inaramidko iti 
napalabas nga 21 a tawen, kadua ti panagipaay iti NAMNAMA para iti Maui kalpasan ti Uram 
iti Lahaina. Iti panagpatuloyko nga agbalin nga aktibo kadagiti parikot iti pagnaedan, kasta 
met iti panangsimpa iti elektrikal, access ti kalsada para iti emergency nga imprastruktura 
iti South Maui kadua ti naaramidko a panagtulong a makaaramid iti trabaho a nangato ti 
sweldona iti creative arts ken technical field iti industria ti film. Agtitinnulongtayo nga agaramid 
iti nasay-sayaat ken narang-rang-ay a masakbayan para iti komunidadtayo. Tumulong tapno 
mapagtalinaed iti panagmaymaysa iti komunidadtayo, bayat iti panagpokus iti babassit a 
negosyo, ken panangaywan iti kultural a tradisiontayo, kangrunaanna, panangprotektar kadagiti 
ubbingtayo manipod iti sex human trafficking, ken panangprotektar kadagiti senior iti cyber 
scam ken predators. Mangnamnamaak nga agserbi iti Maui Nui iti Estado iti Hawaii. Kontaken: 
aileenlilyacain@gmail.com www.voteaileenlilyacain.com
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ACAIN, Aileen R. (Lily)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Aileen R. Acain 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 11
www.votelilyacain.com
aileenlilyacain@gmail.com
(808) 264-0622
 Aloha Kaarruba, agserbi ak para kadakayo! Prebilihiyok ken pakaidayawak a 
mangirepresentar kadakayo. Karbenganyo iti representante nga #AgtrabahoParaItiUmili, saan nga 
iti korporasyon wenno dagiti lobbyista! Madiak iti kontribusyon da. #SaanakNgaMailako. Narabaw 
ti sao. Dagiti naaramidak: $53 a Milyon para iti nalaka ng Kihei housing, pagadalan, panagsagana 
iti layos/puor, 200 a baro nga agtrabaho iti Kihei, #AffordableHousing nga unit para kadagiti 
preschool ken mannursuro, nagdawat iti 800 a nayon nga unit para kadagiti awanan ti balay ken 
biktima iti puor, bayat iti panangtungpal kadagiti pang-aglawlaw a pagtuladan. Sinuportarak ti 
kūpuna, #Union ken trabahador ti ospital, dagiti nag-strike a nurse, panangpangato iti sweldo 
dagiti mannursuro, #SchoolSafety, #GayRights, #LivingWage, #LocalFarmers, panangbawas 
ti utang ti estudiante, nalawlawa a masakupan ti panangaywan ti salun-at, #LowerTaxes ken 
panagadal dagiti CNA/nurse. #ProChoice: Democracia, waya-waya ken #ReproductiveRights ket 
adda iti balota: Kas kangrunaan a nangipaam-ammo iti Act2: Saanak nga agtambay laeng bayat 
a maat-atake ti Demokrasia, ken dagiti doktor ken panangregreg ti ubing ket maibilang a kriminal 
para kadagiti (R)adikal a kalaban. #LegalizeIt. Trabahok ti mangprotektar iti kūpuna,keiki, babassit 
a negosyo, masakit, aglawlaw tayo ken #HumanrRights. Tumakderak para KADAKAYO! Agyamanak 
iti panangibotosyo ken #TAmato
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
AMATO, Terez (T.Amato)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Terez M.A. Lindsey 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 11
www.TAmato.org
Admin@TerezAmato.org
(808) 268-2622
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
32Representante ti Estado Dist 12
 Kumandidatoak para iti posision gapu ta ay-ayatek iti Maui ken amin maipanggep 
iti daytoy nga isla a mangisalumina iti daytoy iti dadduma a paset ti lubong (kasta met iti 
daduma a paset ti Hawaii). Maysaak nga asawa, ama iti duwa nga ubing, ken naipasngay ken 
dimmakkel iti Maui nga addaan iti uppat a henerasion a pamilia ditoy. Kalpasan a nagturposak 
iti UH Moana iti degree a Finance, nagballigiak iti karerak iti panangmanehar ti proyekto iti 
napalabas a nasurok maysa a dekada. Babaen iti kapadasak iti trabahok, naawatak ti kangrunaan 
a makagapo iti naisangsangayan a kinangina ti panagbiag ditoy estado tayo. Malidlidayak nu 
saanen a mabaelan ti lokal a pamilia iti agnaed ditoy ken mapilitanda a pumanaw. Iti pusok ket 
tapno maipangpangruna a makissayan ti gastos iti panagbiag babaen iti state tax adjustment, 
incentivizing local homeownership, bayat ti panamagtalinaedtayo iti kababalin, kinawaya, daga, 
pamataudan, ken panangpasubli iti komunidad tayo. Sipapakumbabak a mangkiddaw ti botosyo 
tapno agserbiak a kas representanteyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
JOHNSON, Dan
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Daniel B. Johnson 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 12
Danjohnson4hawaii@gmail.com
(808) 250-0020
 Addatayo iti tengga ti napaspas ken saan a mapakpakadaan a mangbaliw manen 
iti panagbiagtayo iti agnanayon. Iti patuloy a kinaranggas ti panagbaliw ti klima, a makagapo iti 
agkakapigsa a bagio, pannakaibbos dagiti reef, ken panagngato ti danom iti taaw. Agidatag ti 
AI kadagiti karit ken oportunidad iti panagbiagtayo. Kasapulan ti Upcountry Maui ti mangidaulo 
iti State House nga addaan iti kinalaing iti panagbaliw ti klima, artificial intelligence, ken social 
justice para iti amin. Nasken nga imulatayo ti kinaandor iti sangoanan dagitoy a karit, ken 
kasapulan ti mangidaulo a makaawat iti masakbayan ken mayannatop a mangmuli kadatayo. 
Aktibo a nakipaset ni Rita Ryan iti ado nga akem kas boluntaryo iti Maui, agraman ti Maui 
County Climate Action Advisory Committee, iti Hawaiian Islands Land Trust Maui Council, dati 
a mangidadaulo iti The Climate Reality Project, Hawaii Chapter, ken coordinator ti 350Hawaii.
org. Epektibo nga indaulona iti panagtignay a mangdeklara iti Climate Emergency iti Maui, a 
nakipasetan met dagiti kaaruba nga isla iti Estado. Ibotos ni Rita Ryan!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
RYAN, Rita M.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Rita M. Ryan 
Partido Berde
Representante iti Estado, Dist 12
ritaryan@buzbuz.biz
(808) 250-5030
 Awan ti Naisumite a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
YAMASHITA, Kyle T.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kyle T. Yamashita 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 12
kyle.yamashita@gmail.com
(808) 870-5874
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral33Representante ti Estado Dist 13
 Kas konserbatibo/addaan ti sentido kumon a kandidato para iti House of 
Representative para ti Distrito 13, kayatko a makita a sumayaat ti Hawaii. Nasken a ti prioridadtayo 
ket ti mangsuporta iti panagpanday linteg a kamayatan para kadagiti umili. Ti pokus ita ket nasken 
nga iti panangpapigsa iti ekonomia; mangprotekta iti pamiliatayo, karaman ti pagrebbengan dagiti 
nagannak iti annakda; medical freedom; ken mangitag-ay iti karbengan nga adda iti konstitusion, 
kas kuma iti umuna ken maikadwa nga amendment, iti uneg ti naindaklan nga estado ken 
constitutional republic-tayo. Nu awan iti pigsa ti inpaay ti Apo kadatayo a wayawaya kadagiti 
banag ti gobierno, adda iti peggad a mapukawtayo daytoy ken maitulok ti dadduma a klase ti 
gobierno. Naibasar iti sistematayo iti prinsipyo a Datayo nga Umili ti bagi ti gobierno, ti awtoridad 
iti kagimungan tayo. Iti maudi ket sabali ti nagturongantayo, ngem kabaelak nga isubli iti 
constitutional republic-tayo babaen iti panangisponsor ken panangibotos iti panagpanday linteg a 
mangisubli iti pannakabalin kadagiti umili.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ADAM, Scott
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Scott L. Adam 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 13
ScottAdam@icloud.com
(802) 558-3192
 Aloha! Siyak ni Mahina Poepoe, ken agkandidatoak para iti pannakapilik manen kas 
maysa a Representante iti State House. Ti panangirepresentar kadakayo iti napalabas a duwa a 
tawen ket maysa a pribilehiyo ken responsbilidad a nadagsen kaniak. Impasnekko ti nagtrabaho 
tapno maitedko dagiti inkarik iti kampanya a buyugan iti rekord ti botos a nalawag a makita 
kadagiti naaramid ko para kadagiti umili ken ‘āina tayo. Nakitaripnongak iti panangipakaammo 
iti nasurok nga innem a gasut a wagas agraman dagiti bill tapno maprotektaran ti kultural ken 
natural a pamataudan, masuportaran dagiti agtagikua iti babassit a negosyo ken lokal a sistema 
ti makan, palawaen iti access ti panangaywan ti salun-at, agipaay iti libre a makan iti pampubliko 
nga eskwelaan, ken pasayaaten iti pampubliko a panagadal, panagsagana iti didigra, ken 
transparency ken accountability iti gobiyerno. Agtalinaed a ti pokus ko ket iti panangsigurado nga 
iti dekalidad a biag dagiti residente tayo ken iti salun-at ti aglawlaw tayo ket isu ti nangnangruna 
iti panagaramid iti desision. Sipapakumbabaak a dumawat iti botos ken patuloy a suportayo iti 
umadani a panagbobotos. Ola i ka wai, Mahina
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
POEPOE, Mahina
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Mahinamalamalama M. Poepoe 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 13
Votemahina.com
mahinapoepoe13@gmail.com
(808) 658-6010
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
34Representante ti Estado Dist 14
 Ti estado ti Hawaii ken aglalo iti laud a banda ti Maui ket agkasapulan iti 
mangirepresentar “kadagiti umili” ken agsao para kadagiti umili. Nagbayag a nagtultuloy dagiti 
umili ti Maui a saan a mangngeg ti bosesda. Kangatuan ita ti kurapsion iti estado ti Hawaii. 
Kangatuan ita ti kinaawan ti pagnaedan. Kaaduan ita ti panagusar ti droga. Kanginaan ita ti 
nangina a gastos ti panagbiag. Kababaan ita ti edukasion. Dagiti trans-gender a lallaki ket 
makisalsalisal iti high school kadagiti pagay-ayaman a para kadagiti babbai. Iti nasurok a 60 
tawen, ti Partido Demokratic ket nagturay iti estado ti Hawaii a nangiturong iti dayoty a kinarugit. 
Ti estado ti Hawaii ket nabigbig iti pagilian a “Kanginaan” nga estado ti Amerika iti nabiit laeng. 
Palubusandak nga agbalin a bosesyo iti panangaramid iti daytoy nga estado a paraiso a kas 
maiparbeng. Ilabankayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ARMSTRONG, Kelly J.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kelly J. Armstrong 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 14
armstrongcorporation@gmail.com
(760) 333-2332
 Aloha kadagiti Botante iti House District 14, pakaidayawak ken prebilihiok nga agserbi 
iti napalabas a duwa a tawen kas Representanteyo iti State House. Agyamanak, manipod iti 
kaunggan toy pusok para iti napalabas a suportayo ken namnamaek manen ti suportayo iti 
masangoanan. Adu ti naadalko iti napalabas a duwa a tawen kas Representanteyo ti Estado a 
nainayon iti walo a tawenko iti Consejo ti County a mangpaneknek iti panangipaayko kadagiti 
kasapulan dagiti komunidadtayo! Kas ituloyko nga agnaed iti Lahaina nu sadinno ket isu ti 
nagbiagak sipod pay idi, masaksaktan ti puso ken kararuak para kadagiti kadadakkelan a 
pannakapukaw a saantayo pulos a napanunot. Kas bumangon TAYO manen, wen masapul a 
datayo amin tapno maaramid daytoy. Ammoyo nga ti ENTERO a House District 14 manipud iti 
agsumbangir a pungto ket maaywanan. Mangnamnamakayo a kanayon a nakalukat, nakasagana 
nga agresponde ken transparent ti opisinak!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
COCHRAN, Elle
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Eleanora K. Cochran 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 14
voteellecochran.com
cochranelle00@gmail.com
(808) 281-7709
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral35Representante ti Estado Dist 15
 David Moranz Ti agdama nga akemko ket agtrabaho a kaduak ti pamiliak ken iti 
negosyo ti pamilia. Ti kangrunaan a panggepko ket tumulong iti komunidadko ken iti estado ti 
Hawaii. Dagiti naaramidko: kapitan ti maritime, fire fighter pacific missile range, operator ti heavy 
machine equipment, operator ti planta, para trouble shoot ken agtarimaan ti equipment, napadas 
ko amin dagitoy a trabaho tapno umandar dagiti banbanag.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MORANZ, David A.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
David Anthony Moranz 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 15
kilakahi@gmail.com
(808) 651-8882
 Pakaidayawan toy numo ti agserbi kas Representante iti Estado para iti Dist 15. 
Nangrugi ti initeres ko nga agserbi iti publiko manipod 14 a tawen ti napalabas idi immuna 
a nagkandidatoak para iti Consejo ti County iti Kaua’i. Ti tarigagayko idi ket “agtrabaho para 
iti nasay-sayaat a Kaua’i.” Tallo a tawenak a nagserbi iti Consejo ti County, tallo a tawen kas 
Managing Director, ken walo a tawen iti State House. Iti napalabas a duwa a tawen, nagserbiak 
kas Majority Leader. Babaen iti panangpatakder iti nalaka a pagnaedan, panangaywan 
kadagiti daga ken danum tayo, panangipatungpal kadagiti pang-sangalubungan nga istilo ti 
panagadal dagiti ubbing, panangpasabali iti ekonomiatayo, ken panangtulong kadagiti pamilia 
nga agkasapulan launay, kabaelan tayo a rumang-ay ken pasayaaten ti kalidad ti panagbiag 
tayo. Sipapakumbabaak a mangdawat iti botosyo tapno maituloyko iti importante a trabaho 
iti masakbayan: panangipasimpa iti pangpubliko a pagnaedan ti Kapa’a, panangipatungpal iti 
Mahelona Master Plan para iti ad-ado pay a nalaklaka a pagnaedan ken pangpubliko a serbisyo, 
panangbawas iti trapiko gapo kadagiti bisita babaen iti panangipatungpal iti transportation hubs, 
ken panangsuporta kadagiti makan a lokal a naiparwar ti ili.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
NAKAMURA, Nadine K.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Nadine K. Nakamura 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 15
NadineNakamura.com
nknplan@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-1507
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
36Representante ti Estado Dist 16
 Nagnaedak iti Kaua’i iti unos ti panagbiagko, ken naaddaan iti dayaw a nagserbi iti 
Consejo iti Kaua’i County iti uppat a tawen ken iti House of Representatives ti Estado Iti Hawai’i iti 
napalabas a dua. Simple ti misionko: pagbalinen a nalaka ti pagnaedan ken pasayaaten ti kalidad 
ti biagtayo.    Masapultayo dagiti pagtaengan para kadagiti lokal a pamilia, saan laeng a dagiti 
naluho a panagdur-as. Babaen ti panangpasimple kadagiti pagannurotan, panangparegta iti 
pannakapataud ti pagtaengan iti uneg ken aglawlaw dagiti agdama nga ilitayo, panangpasayaat 
iti imprastruktura a pagnaan, ken panangsuporta kadagiti multigenerational a sangakabbalayan, 
makabangontayo kadagiti nabiag, mataginayon a komunidad. Kissayan daytoy ti gastos iti 
pagnaedan, pagtalinaedenna ti panagtitipon dagiti pamilia, kissayanna dagiti emision ti karbon, 
ken kissayanna ti saan a panagpapada. Salaknibanna pay dagiti dagatayo nga agrikultura ken 
palag-anenna ti panagdupudop ti trapiko.   No sangsangkamaysatayo, masigurado a kabaelan 
dagiti masanguanan a kaputotan ti agbiag ditoy, mapreserbar ti aglawlawtayo, ken rumang-ay 
dagiti komunidadtayo. Determinadoak a mangibanag iti daytoy a sirmata ket mapadayawanak iti 
panangsuportayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
EVSLIN, Luke A.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Luke A. Evslin 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 16
www.lukeevslin.com
luke@lukeevslin.com
(808) 635-6623
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
YODER, Steve
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Steven Jay Yoder 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 16
Kauaipatriot@gmail.com
(808) 855-5503
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral37Representante ti Estado Dist 17
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
JAUCH, Michael H.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Michael  Jauch 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 17
Michael@michaeljauch.com
(808) 346-6002
 Nagserbiak kas Representante ti Estado iti 14 a tawen. Sakbay ti panagkandidatok 
nagtrabahoak iti gobierno ti County iti 36 a tawen. Naidedikar iti serbisio publiko ti intero a 
biagko nga adulto. Timmabunoak iti tunggal aldaw iti sesion ti pagpandayan ti linteg iti uneg 
ti 14 a tawen. Kas maysa a senior a kameng agtultuloyak a makiraman iti panangitandudo ti 
nasayaat a panagpanday ti linteg ken panangaramid iti amin a kabaelak a mangtaming kadagiti 
kasapulan ken pakaseknan ti distritotayo. Ti panagbalin a House Majority Floor Leader ket 
nangipakita iti panagtalek ken panagsammaked dagiti kakaduak iti kabaelak a mangaramid 
kadagiti pagrebbengan iti dayta a posision, ken amin dayta a padas ken kinapanglakayen 
ket mangipalubos kaniak nga agserbi a nasaysayaat iti publiko. Ti panangtaliaw kadagiti 
nagapuanantayo ken panangsegga iti mapasamak iti masakbayan, mangted kaniak iti puso a 
napno iti pannakapnek ken rikna ti nagapuanan. Agyamanak ken apresiarek ti panagtalek dagiti 
tattao iti serbisiok, ken kayatko ti agtultuloy nga agbalin a Representanteyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MORIKAWA, Daynette (Dee)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Daynette S.P. Morikawa 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 17
daynette.morikawa@gmail.com
(808) 651-8855
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
38Representante ti Estado Dist 20
 Naipasngay ken dimakkel idiay Oahu, ni Tina Nakada Grandinetti, PhD., ket agkadidato 
tapno makatulong a mangbukel iti masakbayan nu sadinno a dagiti lokal a pamilia ket kabaelanda 
ti agnaed ditoy Hawaii ken mapadakkel dagiti keikitayo tapno isuda ti mangaywan iti napateg 
a daga ken taawtayo. Indedikarna ti karerana iti panangawat iti krisis ti pagnaedan kinaawan ti 
pagnaedan ti Hawaii, ket kas postdoctoral fellow a nagtrabaho iti national policy institute, iyegna 
iti napateg a kapadasanna iti panangidur-as ti naikalintegan a polisia ti pagnaedan a mangsabet 
kadagiti kasasapulan dagiti agtatrabaho a pamilia. Iti napalabas, inmatonanna ti opisina ni 
Representative Perruso, nu sadinno a nasinged isuna a nakitinnulong kadagiti mangitantandudo 
nga agaramid ken agipasa kadagiti polisia ti pagnaedan, sistema ti makan, panagadal, ken 
kinapatas iti buis. Impakita pay ni Tina iti rekord a panang-organisa kadagiti komunidad tapno 
masuruan dagiti agtutubo, maliklikan ti pannakapaakar dagiti lokal a pamilia, pannakai-Shut 
Down ti Red Hill, ken maaywanan ti ʻāina para kadagiti sumaruno a henerasion. Mamati la unay 
isuna a ti nasayaat a panangipataray iti gobierno ket mapagmaymaysanatayo tapno agtrabaho 
para iti pagsayaatan ti isuamin.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
NAKADA GRANDINETTI, Tina
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Tina  Grandinetti 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 20
www.tinaforhawaii.com
friendsoftinagrandinetti@gmail.com
(808) 376-5200
 Aloha, Siak ni Corinne Solomon. Maysaak nga ina, asawa ken karruba, saan a naiget a 
pulitiko. Kas maysa nga umuna a henerasion nga Americano a dimmakkel iti restawran ti pamiliak, 
nasapa a nasursurok ti napigsa nga etika iti panagtrabaho. Babaen iti Doctor of Pharmacy degree 
a naalak manipud iti University of the Pacific, nagtrabahoak kadagiti ospital ti Oahu sakbay a 
nagretiroak tapno ipamaysak ti pamiliak. No mabutosanak, ipamaysak dagiti sumaganad: gastos 
iti panagbiag, komunidad, ken kinalawag ti panagpanday ti linteg. Ibotosko ti saan kadagiti linteg 
a mangpaadu iti gastos ti panagbiag ken itandudok ti reporma ti gobierno tapno maksayan dagiti 
gastos. Denggek dagiti masapulyo ken agbalinak a timek para iti komunidadtayo. Ikarik nga 
idonarko ti 20% ti sueldok iti Distrito 20—ammuek ti ad-adu pay maipapan iti “20 para iti 20” a 
karik iti website-ko. Babaen ti botosyo, sangsangkamaysatayo a mangaramid manen a nalaka ti 
Hawai’i. Pakaidayawak ti mangirepresentar kadakayo. Mahalo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SOLOMON, Corinne S.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Corinne S. Solomon 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 20
SolomonforHawaii.com
SolomonforHawaii@gmail.com
(808) 650-3245
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral39Representante ti Estado Dist 21
 Kas mai-kapat a henerasyon ti Japanese American a naipasngay ken dimmakkel iti 
daytoy a distrito, ipanpannakkelko nga awagan ti Distrito 21 kas pagtaengak ken mapadayawanak 
nga agserbi kas representante iti uppat a tawen. Maidurduron babaen iti sirmata a mangbukel 
iti Hawaii nu sadinno a dagiti lokal a pamilya ket makapagnaed ken rumang-ay, intadudok para 
iti legislation tapno umado ti nalaka a pagnaedan para kadagiti lokal, manayunan iti pondo para 
kadagiti programa ti pampubliko a panagadal, ken ikkaten dagiti saan nga epektibo a panagturay. 
Nu mapiliak nga agserbi iti maysa pay a termino, namnamaek ti mangitrabaho kadagitoy a parikot 
kasta met dagiti dadduma kas kuma iti panangpasayaat kadagiti trabahador iti taripato ti salun-at, 
panangmanehar kadagiti condominium, ken panangaramid kadagiti saan a maus-usar a sanikua 
ti estado kas nalaka a pagnaedan.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SAYAMA, Jackson D.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jackson D. Sayama 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 21
www.jacksonsayama.com
jackson@jacksonsayama.com
(808) 772-6145
 Aloha! Maysa a dayaw a maikkanak ti oportunidad a dumawat iti botosyo tapno 
agserbiak kadakayo iti State House of Representatives. Panawenen nga ikoreher ti ramot ti 
nakaro a pakaseknantayo tapno maipatngpaltayo ti pannakapasayaat ti komunidadtayo. Rinibo 
a lokal a pamilya ti pimmanaw iti isla idi napalabas a tawen gapo iti kinangina ti gastos ti 
panagbiag. Nasken a lumukay ti ekonomiatayo babaen iti panangpababa ken panangsimpa iti 
buistayo. Kasapulantayo metlaeng iti panangikkat iti aglablabes, makapakapoy, a regulasion ken 
pagalagadan. Nasken nga umirot iti panagpanday linteg iti krimen, ken managsalaknib kadagiti 
pamilia-- ti pundasion ti napigsa a komunidad. Nagbalin a managbaybay-a dagiti politikotayo 
dagiti paggastusanda iti kuartatayo ken saanda a nagannad kadagiti pagalagadan nu maipapan 
iti panagserbi iti pagsayaatan dagiti umili. Panawenen nga agbaliw daytoy ken aramiden ti Hawai’i 
a saan a nasken nga agtalaw dagiti ubbingtayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SEASHELL, Joelle
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Joelle M. Seashell 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 21
Houserepd21@gmail.com
(808) 799-0253
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
40Representante ti Estado Dist 22
 Pakaidayawak iti buo a biagko iti agserbi iti Distrito 22 kas representante ti estadoyo, 
ket nalaos ti panagyamanko iti talek nga inpaayyo kaniak. Iti umuna a terminok, nakaaramidtayo 
iti dakkel a progreso babaen iti panangipasa tayo iti historic a tax cuts tapno masuportaran dagiti 
agtatrabaho a pamilia, naituloy dagiti kasapulan a pagpuunan iti pangpubliko nga edukasion ken 
nakaaramidtayo iti makita nga addang tapno mapapigsa iti sistema ti panangaywan ti salun-
attayo. Nupay kasta, saan pay a nalpas ti trabahotayo. Indedikarko iti buo a propesional a karerak 
iti panagserbi iti publiko, ket agkandidatoak manen tapno maituloyko iti momentum a narugiak 
iti panangsolbarko kadagiti kapatgan a parikot ti Hawai’i. Kas ama ti duwa a napipintas a babbai, 
nakakomitak a mangsiguro a ti henerasionda ket rumang-ay ditoy Hawai’i ken saan da a mapilitan 
a pumanaw iti isla tapno agbirok ti oportunidad iti sabali a lugar. Iti panagtitinnulongtayo, 
agpatuloytayo para iti narangrang-ay a masakbayan para iti amin. Mahalo iti suportayo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
GARRETT, Andrew Takuya
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Andrew Takuya Garrett 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 22
www.andrewtakuyagarrett.com
andrewtakuyagarrett@gmail.com
(808) 354-1108
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
IMAMURA, Jeffrey H.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jeffrey H. Imamura 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 22
jeffimamuraforhawaii@gmail.com
(808) 927-0660
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral41Representante ti Estado Dist 24
 Jillian Anderson - ti pagpilian para iti “pudno nga agaramidtayo iti malpas” . Iti edad a 
tallo, nagalisak iti Waikiki, nagadalak iti Sacred Hearts Academy manipod K-12, ken nagturposak 
a summa cum laude iti UH Manoa idi nagadalak iti tallo a disiplina ti panagnegosyo (finance, 
marketing, ken entrepreneurship) len history. Iti uneg ti nabiit a mano a tawen, ado ti saanen a 
maibigbig nga aspekto ti estadotayo. Saan a maanusan a kinangina ti amin, makikita iti kinaawan 
ti pagnaedan, gagangayen iti krimen, marmarba dagiti imprastrukturatayo, ken bumababa ti 
kalidad ti biag. Iti tallo a session ti legislative, nakipasetak a nagtrabaho para iti State House tayo 
(umuna kas Legislative Analyst ken ita kas Chief-of-Staff para tti House Minority Policy Leader) 
ken pasetak iti komunidadtayo kas miembro ti Waikiki Neighborhood Board. Saanen nga agbalin 
a buybuyaentayo laeng a kumarkaro dagiti parikottayo – nasken nga agtignaytayo. Ammoen ti 
dadduma pay nga aramidek iti: www.jillianforhawaii.com wenno iti @jillianforhawaii (Instagram).
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ANDERSON, Jillian T.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jillian T. Anderson 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 24
www.jillianforhawaii.com
jillianforhawaii@gmail.com
 Siak ni Adrian Tam. Naiyanak ken dimmakkel ditoy mismo a Honolulu, 
ipanpannakkelko a nakaturposak manipod iti Kalani High School. Kalpasan a nagturposak iti 
Penn State, nagsubliak a nagtrabaho para iti bassit a negosyo ti pamiliak. Gapo iti komunidad a 
nagapuak ken iti panangayat ko a makaaramid iti nasayaat a pagbaliwan, nabirukak ti dalanko 
nga agserbi iti pangpubliko iti Hawaii State Legislature. Kalpasan ti sumagmamano a tawen kas 
empleado, napagasatanak ng mabotosan kas Representante ti Estadoyo iti 2020 bayat ti COVID-19 
a pandemia. Simple laeng ti misionko: pasayaaten ti panagbiag dagiti kaarubak. Kayatna a 
saoen daytoy ket ti panangsolbar iti kinatalged ti publiko, polusyon iti ngalawngaw, ken gastos 
iti panagbiag bayat ti panangbirok iti pondo para kadagiti importante a proyekto para kadagiti 
kaarubatayo. Dagiti dadduma a prioridad ko ket karamanna dagiti kritikal a problema a sang-
sanguen ti estado, kas kuma iti kinaawan ti pagnaedan, pagsisinabalian ti ekonomia, nalaka a 
pagnaedan, ken panangaywan iti aglawlaw tayo. Pakaidayawan daytoy numo ti agserbi manen 
kadakayo, ken sipapakumbaba a dawatek ti suportayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TAM, Adrian
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Adrian K. Tam 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 24
adrianforhawaii.com
info@adrianforhawaii.com
(808) 388-8281
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
42Representante ti Estado Dist 27
 Addaanak iti asawa iti 31 a tawen ken 3 a nataenganen nga annak a lallaki ken 
natalged a karera iti real estate. Addaanak iti balay, negosyo, ken maysaak met nga investor. 
Naipasngay ken dimmakkelak idiay Pilipinas. Maikadua a henerasyon iti Chinese immigrants 
dagiti dadakkelko. Nagturposak iti University of Hawaii, Manoa. Mayat iti koneksiyonko iti lokal 
a simbaanmi ken miyembro iti Board of Realtors iti Honolulu. Iti kaugaliak ti trabaho, integridad, 
nagaget a panagtrabaho, ken nasayaat a kapadasan iti panagnegosyo ket dakkel a asset ket 
maiburayko ko para iti Estado tayo. Ti kangrunaan a tarigagayko ket masigurado ken maidaulo 
dagiti pagsayaatan ti ubbing; mapababa ti krimen, panagusar iti ilegal a droga, red tape iti 
bureaucratic, ken awan kaes-eskanna a pananggastos iti buwis; panangimaton iti kinaawan ti 
pagnaedan. Paset iti ethics ko iti transparency, responsibilidad, ken panagbalin a responsable. 
Agkandidatoak tapno makaiburay ken makaaramidak iti nasayaat nga panagbaliw iti biag dagiti 
umili iti Hawaii. Sipapakumbabaak nga agkiddaw iti suportayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
LIM, Margaret U.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Margaret U. Lim 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 27
www.lim4hawaii.com
margaret@lim4hawaii.com
(808) 551-4532
 Inkarigatak ti nagtrabaho tapno makaaramidak iti nawaya, responsive a komunikasion 
kadagiti kaarruba tapno mairepresentar a nasayaat dagiti interesyo iti Lehislatura ken tumulong 
kadagiti kasapulan ti komunidad. Nakakomitak a mangituloy iti kanayon a panagsungbat 
kadagiti surat, email, ken telepono kasta met iti miting iti komunidad ken mangisponsor kadagiti 
linteg a kadwa dagiti residente tapno mangted iti boses kadagiti prioridadyo. Kas Vice Chair iti 
Health & Homelessness Committee, nakapokusak iti kinakurang dagiti trabahador ti medikal, 
panangpalawa kadagiti programa para iti salun-at ti panunot ken panang-abuso iti droga, 
dagiti serbisyo para kadagiti awanan pagnaedan a maibasar kadagiti bumayag ken agtultuloy a 
panagaywan, ken bumayag a panang-aywan tapno matulungan dagiti kupuna. Ado pay ti nasken 
a maaramid kadagitoy a parikot ken pakaseknan ti komunidad maipanggep iti krimen, gastos ti 
panagbiag, pagnaedan, ken panangaywan iti karakter ken kalidad ti arubayantayo nga ituloyko 
a solbaren nu mapiliak manen. Maysa a prebilihiok iti mangirepresentar iti daytoy a distrito ken 
sipapakumbabaak a dumawat iti suportayo manen. Agyamanak iti konsiderasionyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TAKENOUCHI, Jenna
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jenna W.Y.C. Takenouchi 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 27
jennatakenouchi.com
jenna.takenouchi@gmail.com
(808) 368-7311
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral43Representante ti Estado Dist 29
 PANGGEP: Tapno makaaramid iti narang-ay a masakbayan para kadagiti 
komunidadtayo ken iti amin a Hawai’i babaen ti naprinsipyoan a panangidaulo. PAMILIA: - 
Lardizabal Family (banda ti ina) manipod Tagudin, Ilocos Sur - Hussey Family (banda ti ama) 
manipod Kohala, Hawaii Island - Asawa ken tallo nga annak TRABAHO: - Developer iti solar 
projects ken climate change technology a bagi ti komunidad - Iti napalabas: Hawaii State 
Legislature; AGKAYKAYSA DITOY Local 5 NON-PROFIT BOARDS: - Domestic Violence Action Center 
(Tesorero) - Hanahau‘oli School - Hawaii Housing Development Corporation - HAPA - Kalihi 
Valley Neighborhood Board - Aina Aloha Economic Futures (Tesorero) EDUKASION: - MA, Political 
Science (UH Manoa) - BA, Peace & Futures Studies (UH Manoa) PAGLINGLINGAYAN: - Musikero 
- Agadal ti baro a banag (karo iti siensia) KANGRUNAAN NGA PARIKOT: - Panangpasardeng iti 
kurapsion - Panangsolbar iti puon a makagapo ti kinaawan ti pagnaedan ken housing insecurity 
- Panangmanehar iti pagparadaan, kalsada, kinatalged ti pagballasiwan - Krimen ken kinatalged - 
Umno a panangibunong iti budget ti estado
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HUSSEY, Ikaika Lardizabal
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Ikaika M.L. Hussey 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 29
ikaika.house
ikaikahussey@gmail.com
(808) 221-2843
 Kumandidatoak para iti posision agsipud ta: Maysaak nga adipen ti publiko ken ti 
panangisakit iti komunidadtayo ket isu ti nangayaban ti Apo nga aramidek. Dagiti sursuro ti Apo 
ket saanen a makita iti gobierno ken kadagiti mangidadaulo. Awanen dagiti kasimplian a banag 
kas kuma iti, saan a panagulbod, saan a panagswitik, saan a panagtakaw, ken saan a panagpatay. 
Iti napalabas a dekada, nagtrabahoak iti Legislature, nagserbiak iti komunidad ken Estadotayo, 
ket saanko a makita a sumaysayaat dagiti banbanag. Pumanpanaw dagiti tattao, agserserra dagiti 
negosyo, saan a makontrol ti krimen, ken agsagsagaba ti komunidadtayo. Dimmakkelak iti daytoy 
a komunidad, Ma’ema’e Elementary, Kamehameha Intermediate ken High. Nagtrabahoak iti New 
Hope, iti State Capitol, Kamehameha Schools Preschools, ken Kalihi Union Church. Nagserbiak iti 
Neighborhood Board, ken Lanakila Multi-Purpose Senior Center Board iti nasurok maysa a dekada. 
Ay-ayatek iti komunidadko ket pakaidayawak ti mangirepresentar kadakayo, ibotosyo kuma ni 
Kaapu, Carole Kauhiwai.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KAAPU, Carole Kauhiwai
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Carole Kauhiwai Kaapu 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 29
CaroleKaapu.org
Carole.Kaapu@gmail.com
(805) 628-2822
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
44Representante ti Estado Dist 30
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
AZINGA, P. M.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
P. M. Azinga 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 30
azinga-district30.godaddysites.com
nzhinza@gmail.com
(808) 202-1341
 Ni Shirley ket maysa a napadasen nga agserserbi iti publiko ken addaan iti maysa 
dekada a serbisyo iti propesyonal a karerana. Pito a tawen isuna a nagserbi iti Siudad ken County 
ti Honolulu, City Council Legislature a mangsolsolbar iti problema ti publiko, mangiyun-una iti 
proyekto ti komunidad, ken mangpaliiw iti linteg ti siyudad. Inrugi ni Shirley ti agnegosyo tapno 
makatulong kadagiti lokal a negosyo idi panawen ti pandemya a COVID-19. Kadwana iti kasosyo 
na iti negosyo, inyestablisarda ti ‘Ilima Marketing, maysa a digital nga ahensiya ti marketing 
tapno partikular a matulungan dagiti mom-and-pop a paglakuan. Pinalawa ni Shirley ti karera na 
iti gobierno babaen iti panagserbina iti duwa a nagsaruno a sesyon iti Hawaii State Legislature 
a mangad-adal, mangpoproseso ken mangputputar kadagiti legislative bills ken resolusyon ti 
estado. Ni Shirley ket matalek ken naayat nga agserserbi iti publiko nga agboluntaryo tapno 
maitag-ay dagiti agduduma a komunidad. Paset isuna iti Kalihi-Palama Neighborhood Board, 
Farrington High School, School Community Council, ken isu ti Chair-Woman ti Partido Demokratiko 
a Konseho ti House District 30. Maysa metlang isuna a co-founder ti Keeping Up With Kalihi, 
maysa nga online a grupo a nakapokus iti panangpabileg iti Kalihi.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TEMPLO, Shirley Ann Labadan
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Shirley Ann Labadan Templo 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 30
shirleytemplo.com
shirley@shirleytemplo.com
(808) 748-9990
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral45Representante ti Estado Dist 31
 Aloha! Siyak ni Linda Ichiyama ken pakaidayawak ti agserbi kas Representante ti 
Estadoyo manipod 2010. Naipasngay ken dimmakkelak iti Salt Lake ken ipanpannakkelko nga 
awagan daytoy a pagtaengak. Nagturpos iti Salt Lake Elementary School, Moanalua Middle 
School, Moanalua High School, ken intuloyko iti Georgetown University ken UH Manoa William 
S. Richardson School of Law. Nasingedak a nakitrabaho kadagiti legislator iti lugartayo tapno 
mapasayaat dagiti pagadalantayo, kas iti baro a MoHS Performing Arts Center ken baseball/
softball field. Sipapakumbabaak a dumawat iti botosyo iti 2024 a panagbobotos. Nawayakayo a 
mangkontak kaniak iti repichiyama@gmail.com para iti aniaman a saludsod weno pakaseknanyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ICHIYAMA, Linda
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Linda E.I. Chong 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 31
www.lindaichiyama.com
Lindaichiyama@gmail.com
(808) 392-4547
 Aloha, siak ni Nancy Valdez. Agtawenak iti 55 ken residenteak iti Moanalua/Salt Lake 
a banda, Distrito 31. Kas maysa a kandidato iti tugaw ti House Representative ti Hawai’i iti Distrito 
31, ikarik a mapagtalkan ken mapangnamnamaanak a mangitandudo para iti komunidadtayo. Ti 
misyon ko ket ti dumngeg ken mangsolbar kadagiti pakaseknan dagiti miyembro ti komunidad 
nga addaan iti transparency ken responsibilidad. Mayataday iti komunidadtayo iti mangidadaulo 
nga agaramid a sigod iti addang tapno masolbar dagiti parikot, sumungbat kadagiti reklamo, 
mangitandudo iti kinatalged, mangawat kadagti baro a kapanunutan ken wagas tapno 
mapasayaat iti komunidad ken kalidad ti biag. Mahalo, Nancy Valdez
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
VALDEZ, Nancy A.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Nancy A. Valdez 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 31
nancyavaldez@yahoo.com
(808) 489-3128
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
46Representante ti Estado Dist 32
 Aloha. Agkandidatoak para iti pannakapilik manen a Representante iti State House 
tapno maituloy ko nga irepresentar dagiti residente ti Dist 32. Iti unos ti panagbiagko, 35 a nabiit a 
tawen, nakitak ni nanang ko, Senador Donna Mercado Kim, a nakaaramid iti positibo nga epekto, a 
nangpasayaat iti Hawaii a pagnaedak. Panawenen para iti henerasyonko a tumakder. Nagnaedak 
iti Moanalua iti unos ti panagbiagko. Maiparbeng iti komunidadtayo ti panangidaulo manpud iti 
komunidad a napudno, transparent, ken responsable. Ikagumaak ti agtrabaho tapno mabukel ti 
panagtalek dagiti umili a pagserbiak ken tapno masigurado a mangeg dagiti bosesda iti tunggal 
desisyon nga aramidek. Agbalinak a napigsa, epektibo a boses, a mangitantandudo kadagiti 
polisiaa nga umno, ken mangsigurado a pagserbian ti gobiyernotayo dagiti umili, babaen iti 8 a 
tawen a kapadasak kas maysa nga abogado. Mapadayawanak nga agserbi ken agyamanak iti 
konsiderasyon ken botosyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
AIU, Micah Pookela Kim
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Micah Pookela Kim Aiu 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 32
micahaiu.com
vote@micahaiu.com
(808) 429-9335
 Aloha Gagayyem, Nainspiraran babaen iti nauneg nga awis ti panagserbi iti 
komunidadtayo, magagagaranak a mangipablaak iti panagkandidatok para iti 2024 nga eleksion. 
Idi 2022, 246 laeng a botos ti kurang tapno maaddaantayo iti umno a panagbaliw, iti laksid ti 
naladawt a panangrugi. Ipakita daytoy ti nakasksadaaw a potensial ti panagmaymaysatayo. Ita, iti 
nalablabes ngem iti kaanuman, kasapulantayo ti intedgridad ken panangidaulo iti gobiernotayo. 
Nakakomitak nga agaramid iti positibo nga epekto saan laeng nga ita, ngem para kadagiti 
masangoanan a henerasion. Maysa a mangidadaulo iti negosyo, komunidad, ken simbaan nga 
addaan iti 30+ tawen a kapadasan. Babaen iti panangimatonko iti negosyo ti pamilia ken ti 
akemko kas nabotosan a Presidente ti Moanalua Valley Community Association ken ti Sheet Metal 
Contractors Association, nakagun-odak iti napateg a kabaelan a kasapulan para iti panagserbi 
ken panagaramid iti desision a pakabenepisiaran dagiti daduma. Sipapakumbabaak a dumawat 
ti agtultuloy a talek, suporta, ken kararagyo. Mabalintayo a baliwan ti taray ti gasattayo, ngem 
saanko a maaramid daytoy nu awan ti botosyo. Mahalo, Garner Shimizu
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SHIMIZU, Garner Musashi
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Garner M. Shimizu 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 32
voteshimizu.com
voteshimizu@gmail.com
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral47Representante ti Estado Dist 34
 Siyak ni Gaius, ken maidawat nga awagandak laeng a Kipi. Agnaedak iti siyudad 
ti Pearl, Pacific Palisades. Masdaaw kayo siguro, apay kuma nga ibotosyo ti kas kaniak? Anya 
kuma iti maitulong ko? Anya kuma ti maaramid ko a pagbaliwan? Anya kuma iti ammok? Nasken 
amin dagitoy a saludsod ngem saan ko a masungbatan dagitoy iti 150 laeng a sao a naipalubos 
kaniak iti daytoy a kahon. Ti maibagak ket saanak a naragsak kadagiti araramiden dagiti politiko, 
mangidadaulo iti gobierno ken responsable a tattao iti pagnaedantayo, ti komunidad tayo. Iti 
panangibotosyo kaniak ket kayat na a sawen nga innaladak kas trabahadoryo. Kamengak iti 
daytoy a komunidad ken makitadak a magmagna, makita dak nga agur-uray iti bus, kayatna a 
saoen a personalyo a mailawlawag dagiti kasapulan ken kayatyo kaniak. Ti pudno a boses dagiti 
tao. Agyamanak
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DUPIO, Gaius, II
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Gaius K. Dupio II
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 34
gpearlcity@gmail.com
(808) 343-7314
 Ni Gregg Takayama ket nagsirbi iti Balay ti Estado iti 12 a tawen, kalpasan ti karera 
a kas award-winning a journalist ken direktor ti komunikasyon para kenni Dios ti aluadna a U.S. 
Senator Dan Inouye ken UH-Manoa. Dagiti nagun-od na iti lehislatibo ket karaman ti panagbalinna 
nga author kadagiti linteg para iti tulong ti Estado kadagiti family caregiver (ti umuna iti pagilian), 
pannakapartuat ti corrections oversight commission tapno mapasayaat dagiti pagbaludan ken 
kulungan, panangpaserra kadagiti ilegal nga aerial fireworks babaen ti maysa a task force ti 
Estado. Nakaala ni Gregg iti nasurok a $60 milyon para iti panangpasayaat kadagiti pagadalan 
iti Pear City para kadagiti baro a classroom, moderno a teknolohiya ti edukasyon ken air-
conditioning. Iti panagkandidatona manen ket inendorso ti Hawaii State Teachers Association. 
Timmulong isuna tapno manayunan ti pondo ti Estado para kadagiti programa ti senior a mangted 
kabaelan kadagiti nakapsot a natataengan nga agbiag a natalged iti pagtaengan, karaman dagiti 
maipatulod a makan, serbisyo a panangaywan iti pagtaengan ken transportasion. Pinadayawan 
ti AARP ni Gregg iti kangatuan a Capitol Caregiver Award ken iti Alzheimer’s Association para iti 
panagtulongna kadagiti agsagsagaba iti dementia.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
TAKAYAMA, Gregg
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Gregg  Takayama 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 34
greggtakayama.com
greggtakayama@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 382-3212
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
48Representante ti Estado Dist 37
 Ania iti sirmatam? Ania dagiti namnamam ken arapaap mo para iti Hawaii? Ania 
dagiti sirmata dagiti ubbingmo? Ania dagiti namnama ken arapaap dagiti Keikitayo iti Hawaii? Ti 
pannakaammo ti tulbek ken iti naipakat a pannakaammo ti manglukat kadagiti ruangan dagiti 
pono a pinilitayo para iti Aloha Hawaii.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KAAUMOANA, Taylor
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Taylor K. Kaaumoana 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 37
votetaylork.com
votetaylork@gmail.com
(808) 342-9160
 Aloha, kas Representante para ti Distrito 37 , inkagumaak a nagtrabaho tapno 
masiguro a mariknan dagiti residente iti komunidad a mangngegda, maaywananda, ken 
masuportaranda. Iti napalabas ng duwa a tawen, napasayaatmi iti kinatalged ti arubayan, naisubli 
dagiti serbisyo ti bus, nalukatan manen iti Mililani hockey rink, nadalusan iti nagkampoan 
iti Kipapa gulch, ken naprotektaran dagiti keikitayo manipod iti peggad ti e-cigarette. Ngem 
ado pay ti maaramid. Agkandidatoak para iti maikadua a termino iti 2024 tapno maituloy a 
lumaban para kadagiti napapateg a parikot. Dagiti kangrunaan a pagalagadan nga ituloyko a 
pagpokusan ket kinatalged ti publiko, paglakaan ti pagnaedan ken gastos ti biag, panagpuunan 
iti pagadalantayo, panangsuportar kadagiti lokal a negosyo, ken panangsiguro iti nasaysayaat 
a pannaripato ti salun-at ken access ti transportasion para iti komunidadtayo. Kas maysa nga 
ina nga agpadpadakkel iti ubbing iti distrito, nakakomitak a mangsiguro nga agtalinaed a 
kamayatan ti lugartayo a pagnaedan ken pagpadakkelan ti pamiliatayo. Iti panagtitinnulongtayo, 
makaaramidtayo iti agpayso a panagbaliw. Agserserbi, Trish
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
LA CHICA, Trish
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Mae Patricia Q. La Chica 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 37
www.trishlachica.com
hello@trishlachica.com
(808) 799-4620
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral49Representante ti Estado Dist 38
 Maysa a prebilihiyo ti panagseri iti Mililani a kas representanteyo iti napalabas a 12 
a tawen. Naipasngay ken dimmakkel iti daytoy a komunidad ken adda bukodko a pamilia, isu iti 
pusok daytoy a komunidad. Nagadalak kadagiti pagadalan iti Mililani ken naawat ko iti Bachelor 
ko iti University of Hawai’i, iti Master ko manipod iti Hawai’i Pacific University ken Doctorate 
ko manipod iti Argosy University. Iti adal ko, kasta met iti kapadasak iti panagpanday-linteg, ti 
mangted iti kabaelak nga epektibo a mangitakder iti distrito tayo. Manipod iti napiliak idi 2012, 
nagtrabahoak tapu magun-odko ti masapul a kapadasan tapno makaserbi kadakayo ken agbalin 
nga epektibo a representante iti pagpandayan-linteg. Ti nasayaat a komunikasyon kadakayo ti 
kangrunaan a prioridad ko, tapno masiguro a dagiti boses yu ti mangmuli kadagiti pagannurutan 
para kadagiti importante a banbanag kas iti nangato a gastos iti panagbiag, pagnaedan, kinaawan 
ti pagnaedan, krimen ken transparency iti gobierno. Nu pay kasta, ti saaan nga agpangadua a 
komitmentko ken koneksiyon iti Mililani ti pudno a mangted kaniak iti kabaelan ken pakaidayawak 
ti agtultuloy a panagserbik kadakayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
CHEAPE MATSUMOTO, Lauren
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Lauren K. Matsumoto 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 38
laurenforhawaii.com
lauren@laurenforhawaii.com
(808) 358-7816
 Mililani ti kamayatan a siudad iti Hawaii. Nagbalin daytoy a natalged a pagnaedan iti 
tallo a henerasion ti pamiliak, ket nakakomitak a mangsigurado a mabalin daytoy a pagnaedan 
ken pakaalaan ti inspirasion iti ado pay a henerasion. Masolbartayo ti gastos ti panagbiag 
babaen iti panagited iti pagalaan para iti pagnaedan, makan ken agrikultura, panagadal, ken 
transportasion. Kasapulan ti Mililani iti panangirepresentar a nakapokus iti kinadumaduma, patas, 
ken pannakairaman ti amin para kadagiti umilitayo. Dagiti orginasado a trabaho, umno a sweldo, 
sapasap a panangaywan iti salun-at, karbengan dagiti babbai, ken panangsiguro iti natalged ken 
manangpasangbay nga aglawlaw para kadagiti amin a kolor ken pammati ti tattao ket napateg 
para iti narang-ay a demokracia. Babaen iti suportayo, agbalinakto a makitinnulong, aksesibol, 
transparent, ken epektibo nga Agpanpanday Linteg a mangirepresenta kadakayo iti Hawai’i State 
Capitol.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
OZAWA, Alexander Kekuanao’a
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Alexander Mori Kekuanaoa Ozawa 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 38
alexozawa.com
alexozawa@gmail.com
(808) 554-1772
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
50Representante ti Estado Dist 39
 “Aloha Kaaruba! Sika ti prioridad. Iti panagserbi kadakayo iti panggep na amin 
daytoy. Dagiti tarigagayko ket tapno maaddaan ti komunidadtayo iti: -basbassit a bilang ti krimen 
-nababbaba a gastos ti panagbiag -basbassit a bilang ti awan pagnaedanna -nasaysayaat 
nga edukasion -basbassit a trapiko Nu maikkanak iti oportunidad a agserbi kadakayo iti duwa 
pay a tawen, dagitoy ti pagpokusak. Ituloyyo kuma a makisarita keniak babaen ti panangtext/
panangtawagyo iti personal a numero ti cellphone ko: (808)-258-3235. Kayatko a denggenkayo.”
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
PIERICK, Elijah
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Elijah I. Pierick 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 39
elijahpierick.com
elijah.pierick.publicservant@gmail.com
(808) 258-3235
 Nakakomit ni Corey Rosenlee a mangilaban kadagiti agtatrabaho a pamilia ken 
mangipaay iti naranraniag a masakbayan para kadagiti sumaruno a kaputotan. Isuna ket maysa 
a mannursuro iti social studies iti Campbell High School iti agarup duapulo a tawen. Iti babaen ti 
panangiwanwanna, rinibu nga ubbing ti West O’ahu ti nakasursuro iti kinapateg ti pannakipaset iti 
sibiko, panangrisut kadagiti parikut iti komunidad, ken responsabilidad iti kagimongan. Manipud 
2015-2021, nagserbi ni Corey kas Presidente ti Hawai’i State Teachers Association, nga intrabahona 
ti pannakapaado ti pondo ti pagadalan, mangingato iti sueldo dagiti mannursuro, ken mangipaay 
iti aircon a mangpalamiis kadagiti nabara unay a siled-pagadalan ti sistema ti edukasiontayo iti 
publiko. Agdama isuna a miyembro ti ‘Ewa Neighborhood Board. Manipud iti nalaka a pagnaedan 
agingga iti panangpalag-an iti trapiko agingga iti panagsagana iti emerhensia, maawatan ni Corey 
dagiti nasken nga isyu a mangapektar iti estadotayo. Maysa a tungpal biag a kampeon dagiti 
nakapoy nga umili ti Hawai’i, sisasagana isuna a mangisubli iti integridad iti lokal a gobierno ken 
mangipaay iti pudno a solusion kadagiti parikut a sangsanguen dagiti umili ti pagtaengantayo 
nga isla.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ROSENLEE, Corey
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Corey A. Rosenlee 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 39
www.coreyrosenlee.com
coreyrosenlee@gmail.com
(808) 677-3537
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
51Representante ti Estado Dist 40
 Kas agdama a Representante iti State House para iti Dist 40. Agkandidatoak para 
iti pannakapilik manen iti umdani nga eleksyon tapno maituloyko dagiti proyekto a narugiak iti 
distritok. Dagiti agdama ken konstruksyon iti masakbayan ket resulta dagiti panangpasayaat a 
kapital ng proyekto a naalak para kadagiti amin nga eswkelaan iti distritok. Inpaam-ammok ken 
timmulongak a nagaramid iti daduma a bill ken duwa a resolusyon a naipasa ken agbalinto a 
linteg nga agipaay iti positibo nga epekto iti komunidad tayo. Malaksid iti panagited ti pondo para 
kadagiti proyekto ti eskwelaan, nakaalaak metlang iti pondo manipod iti Grant in Aid for Weed 
and Seed, Hawaii Humane Society and Kuleana Coral Restoration. Adda met dagiti dadduma a 
naballigi a naaramid kas kuma iti panang-install iti shelter iti maysa a sardengan iti bus idiay 
Hanakahi Street ken panangited iti solusyon kadagiti reklamo dagiti umili. Ituloyko ti agtrabaho 
para iti distritok.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MARTINEZ, Rose
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Rosebella Locquiao Ellazar-Martinez 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 40
rosebella.martinez@icloud.com
(808) 224-1261
 Siak ni Julia Reyes Oda ket agkandidatoak iti posision gapo ta mamatiak nga 
adda ti maaramidantayo a nasaysayaat tapno masiguro ti masakbayan ti Hawai’i. Umuna ti 
komunidadtayo. Kas sumaruno a representanteyo iti estado, nakakomitak nga agbalin a bosesyo 
iti State House. Nu mabotosanak, lumabanak para iti napintas a pagadalan, napintas a trabaho, 
natalged a komunidad, napigsa nga ekonomia, agkissay iti basura ti gobierno, ken kinatarnaw 
iti gobierno. Agbalinak nga independiente a boses ti komunidadtayo ket sipapakumbabaak a 
dumawat iti suportayo. Bisitaenyo kuma iti JulieReyesOda.com tapno maamuanyo pay ti panggep 
kaniak.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
REYES ODA, Julie
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Julie K. Reyes Oda 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 40
juliereyesoda.com
juliereyesoda@gmail.com
(808) 953-2054
 Kas independiente a kandidato ti State House para iti maika-40 a distrito ti Hawaii, 
nakakomitak a mangbirok iti kinaresponsable ken panangipaay iti resulta para iti komunidadtayo. 
Karbengantayo ti panangidaulo a mangilaban iti patas a panagtrato ken agaramid iti umno nga 
addang. Determinadoak a mangsolbar kadagiti kritikal a parikot a sangsanguen ti distritotayo. 
Manipod iti panangsiguro ti transparency ken kinapatas kadagiti utility rate tayo agingga iti 
panangsalaknib iti aglawlawtayo ken panangsigurado iti kinatalged ken dalos ti danom, saanak a 
sumardeng nga agtrabaho para kadagiti solusion a pakabenepisiarantayo tayo amin. Karbengan 
ti komunidadtayo ti ad-adda pay nga atension ken respeto. Nasken a biagen tayo manen ti Ewa 
Beach a hub nga addaan ti ad-adopay a pasamak iti komunidad ken napigpigsa a panangidaulo 
ti lokal. Panawenen para iti Ewa Beac, Ewa, Westlock, ken Iroquois Point a mabigbig ken 
masuportaran kas maiparbeng kadagitoy. Ipatungpaltayo daytoy. P.S. Panangiladawan iti daytoy 
nga imahe para iti saan a makakita, iti sao ken garaw ko, maitampok ti agduduma a simbolo ti 
kultura, bandera, ken sabong iti likudak iti hunting camouflage. ALOHA
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ULUFANUA, Christian P.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Christian P. Ulufanua 
Datayo ti Tattao
Representante iti Estado, Dist 40
ulufanua4ewa.com
ulufanua.christian@gmail.com
(915) 808-6800
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
52Representante ti Estado Dist 41
 Aloha, siyak ni David Alcos, nauneg a nakaramot iti komunidad ti Ewa Beach iti lima 
a henerasyon. Addaan iti kapadasan iti panagkontrata ken coaching, nakapokusak iti nasurok 
a 20 a tawen nga agserserbi iti komunidad tayo. Nakakomitak a mangaramid iti pagilian tayo 
a nasaysayaat a pagyanan, a nakapokus iti edukasyon, kinatalged, access, panangsolbar 
iti kinaawan ti pagnaedan, ken pagsayaatan ti komunidad. Tarigagayko ti pannakaadda iti 
nasaysayaat a masakbayan para iti amin. Agyamanak iti suportayo kas ituloyko nga ikagumaak 
ti agaramid kadagiti positibo a pagbaliwan para iti komunidad tayo ken masangoanan a 
henerasyon.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ALCOS, David A., III
LEGAL A NAGAN:
David A. Alcos III
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 41
RepAlcos.com
teamalcos41@gmail.com
(808) 864-6928
 Agserserbi iti pagilian, komunidad ken sika... Kalpasan a nagserbiak iti Navy ti 
pagilian tayo iti 30 a tawen ken ita ti maika-10 a tawen ko nga agserbi iti ‘Ewa Neighborhood 
Board, dagiti karik para iti komunidad ken panagayat ko iti serbisyo ket agtultuloy a dumakdakkel. 
Iti Distrito 41 (‘Ewa Beach, ‘Ewa Gentry, Ocean Pointe, Kala’eloa, paset iti Ko Olina) ket maysa 
iti pinakasabali ken kaaduan iti populasyon na a paset iti Oahu. Kayatko nga ipasigurado ti 
dumakdakkel a komunidad tayo ket agsagsagana para iti bumayag a panagballigi. Kayat na 
sawen ket iti panakitinnulong kadagiti agar-aramid ti linteg ken panagpokus iti panagnayon iti 
bilang dagiti trabaho iti Komunidadtayo; panagbirok iti solusyon para iti nataltalged a purpurok; 
panangsuporta iti nalaka a pagnaedan, ken panangsigurado iti de-kalidad nga edukasyon para 
kadagiti agtutubo. Addaanak iti Bachelor’s Degree in Business Management, Master’s Degree iti 
Contract Management, ken addaanak metlang iti negosyo ken nangipatakderak iti lokal a non-
profit organization. Iti panggepko: Ituloy ko ti agserbi iti pagilian, komunidad ken sika!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
CLARK, John H., III
LEGAL A NAGAN:
John H. Clark III
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 41
friendsofjohnclark.com
info@friendsofjohnclark.com
(808) 428-1564
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral53Representante ti Estado Dist 42
 Aloha Kākou, Mahalo iti orasyo nga agbasa iti baro a giya ti Botante para iti Hawaii. 
Siak ni Diamond Garcia ken sipapakumbabaak a naaddaan iti oportunidad a mangirepresentar 
kadakayo ken iti ‘Ohanayo iti House of Representatives iti napalabas a dua a tawen. Manipod 
pinilidak dagiti umili ti komunidadtayo idi 2022, naragsakak a mangi-report a narugiantayon, 
ti trabaho a mangun-una kadagiti napapateg a parikot dagiti pamiliatayo iti West O’ahu. 
Sipapakumbabaak a dumawat ti suporta ken botosyo a mapili manen iti House of Representatives 
tapno maituloytayo ti laban kontra iti politcal machine ti Hawaii, bayat ti panagtrabaho tayo nga 
adda malpas para iti komunidad tayo. Saanen nga agbalin nga agtugaw tayo laeng ken saanen a 
pilien dagiti pareho a politko a mangpangpangina iti gastos ti panagbiag bayat ti panangbuyada 
a pumanpanaw dagiti pamilia a mapan iti kontinente ti Estados Unidos. Mahalo para iti 
konsiderasionyo! Ke Akua Pū (Bendisionan Dakayo ti Apo)
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
GARCIA, Diamond
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Diamond D. Garcia 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 42
DiamondGarcia.com
RepresentativeGarcia@gmail.com
(808) 953-0483
 Aloha: Siak ni Anthony Makana Paris. Dimmakelak iti Nānākuli ken tadta ket addaanak 
iti pagtaengan iti Kapolei, nagapoak iti makipulpuldia a pamilia, ken nagtrabahoak iti ironworkers 
iti napalabas nga 13 tawen. Addaanak iti degree iti engineering, theology, ken law manipod 
MIT, Santa Clara, ken Richardson School of Law iti UH. Nagserbiak iti komunidadtayo kas Chair 
iti Makakilo/Kapolei/Honoka Hale Neighborhood Board, First Vice President iti Association of 
Hawaiian Civic Clubs, ken Board Member iti Wai’anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
Agsagsagaba dagiti komunidadtayo gapo iti nalabes a trapiko, nangina a pagbalayan, krimen, 
mapukpukaw a trabaho, panaglakay/baket ken climate-vulnerable nga imprastruktura, ken 
kurang a pondo ti panagadal. Ti panangsolbar ditoy ket panagpatakder iti lugar para kadagiti 
lokal a pamilia babaen iti panangsolbar iti kinatalged ti makan; panangpalawa kadagiti parke 
iti igid ti baybay ken panangaywan kadagiti watershed; panangisimpa kadagiti imprastruktura; 
panangleppas iti Honolulu Rail; ken panangpondo iti OHA ken DHHL kas paset ti nalawa a solusion 
para kadagiti nalaka a pagnaedan. Iti panagtitinnulongtayo, kabaelantayo nga ibati ti Hawai’i a 
nasaysayaat para iti sumaruno a henerasion. Mahalo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
PARIS, Anthony Makana
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Anthony Makana Paris 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 42
www.votemakana.com
makana4house@gmail.com
(808) 398-2468
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
54Representante ti Estado Dist 45
 Aloha, siyak ni Desir’é De Soto. Ipanpannakkel ko a residenteak iti Mākaha ken 
maysaak a produkto iti pampubliko a pagadalan iti Hawai’i. Nagadalak iti Mākaha Elementary, 
wʻanae Intermediate, ken Pearl City High School (‘91), nu sadinno ket adu ti inatiwko iti 
panaglangoy iti eksepsion ti distrito. Saan nga agpangadua ti komitmentko iti komunidad tayo. 
Kalpasan a nakagun-odak ti bachelor’s degree manipod iti Whitworth College (‘96), nagsubliak 
idiay Waiʻanae kas maysa a manursuro ken saan a nagbayag ket intuloy ko iti school counseling 
idiay Chaminade University (‘01). Kanayon a tarigagay ko nga ipaay ti kasayaatan a suporta 
para iti keiki iti komunidad tayo, maysa daytoy a misyon a nakaramot kadagiti pannursurok iti 
kupuna. Nagturposak iti Ph.D iti organizational psychology, kabayatanna daytoy ket sinuportarak 
iti pannakaaramid ti Wai’anae to Whitworth ‘Auwai ken Papahana ‘o Kaiona (ALP). Kas addaan iti 
dedikasyon nga school counselor, itultuloy ko nga idur-as iti pagsayaatan ti kagimungan, emosion, 
pisikal, panunot ken ekonomia dagiti residente tayo. Para iti ad-adu nga impormasyon, bisitaen iti 
www.desiredesoto.com.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DESOTO, Desire Auguste
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Desire A. DeSoto 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 45
desiredesoto.com
desiredesoto@gmail.com
(808) 561-1110
 Makatulungak a mangaramid iti panagbaliw a kasapulan tayo tapno maipasubli ti 
ALOHA a komunidad tayo. Kayatkayo a mangngeg ken magun-odko ti botosyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MURAOKA, Chris
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Christopher L. Muraoka 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 45
chris4waianae@gmail.com
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral55Representante ti Estado Dist 46
 Kas katutubo iti sentral O’ahu, pagaayatko iti mangirepresenta kadagiti komunidad a 
dimmakkelak. Nagadalak iti Kanoelani Elementary ken Hanalani Schools sakbayko a nagun-odko 
ti bachelor’s degree iti business administration nga addaan panangipaganetget iti accounting 
manipod iti University of Hawaii - West O’ahu. Dimmakkelak iti O’ahu karaman iti Whitmore, 
Wahiawa, Mililani ken Waipio. Idi 2021, ti asawak, ken duwa nga annakko a lalaki ket gimmatang iti 
daan a plantasion ti istilona a balay iti Wahiawa, a mangted iti kabuklan a siklo ti panagdaliasatko. 
Kas aktibo a miembro iti komunidad ken ama ti ubing a pamilya iti Wahiawa, naobserbarko a 
kayat a maamoan dagiti umilitayo a mangeg dagiti representanteda isuda ken ikagkagumaanda 
ti agtrabaho tapno mapreserba ti wagas ti panagbiagda. Mapadayawanak a mangsalaknib ken 
mangpreserba iti distritotayo para kadagiti ubbingtayo iti umay a tawtawen.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
GABRIEL, Daniel Michael
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Daniel M. Gabriel 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 46
dannymgabe@gmail.com
(808) 219-7078
 Ituloyko nga ilaban dagiti nadalus a panagpipili ken napudno a gobierno. Nasken 
unay nga isaadtayo ti natibker a pundasion ti nasayaat a panagturay tapno mapakalmatayo dagiti 
epekto ti krisis ti klima kadagiti wagas a nalinteg ken patas, ken mangisentro iti pagimbagan ti 
komunidad babaen ti pannakapataud ti soberano ti taraon ken enerhia, ad-adda a natibker a 
suporta para iti salun-at ken edukasion ti publiko, napnoan pannakaawat a pannakaparang-ay ti 
pudno a nalaka a pagnaedan ken nasaysayaat a panangaywan kadagiti pamataudan iti pagtalek 
ti publiko a kas iti wai ken ‘āina. Kanayon nga ipangpangrunak dagiti kaaduan a nakapoy, ken 
agtultuloyak nga agtrabaho tapno mapatanor ti panagtalek ti publiko iti gobierno babaen ti 
nairanta a panagtrabaho iti aglawlaw ti panagibaga iti kinapudno ken panangpasayaat iti relasion. 
Ammok a situtulok ti komunidadko a makipaset iti napinget a trabaho a kasapulan tapno agbalin 
daytoy a gobierno no sadino a nainkalintegan a mariknatayo ti agpadpada a maipagpannakkel 
ken mangsalaknib, ken mapadayawanak a mangaramid iti daytoy a trabaho a kaduayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
PERRUSO, Amy A.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Amy A. Perruso 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 46
voteamyperruso.com
amyperruso@gmail.com
(808) 351-0980
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
56Representante ti Estado Dist 47
 “Managserbi a Panangidaulo” – Panangdengngeg ken panangsuporta kadagiti 
panggepyo, kinatalged ken pagbiaganyo. Retiradoak a firefighter ken natural nga agserserbi 
iti publiko. Mamatiak iti panangsalaknib kadagiti ubbing, karbengan dagiti nagannak ken 
pammatitayo iti relihion. Suportarak ti kinasagrado dagit pangbabai nga isports ken ti 
karbenganda para iti kinapribadoo, ti karbengantayo nga idepensar ti bagitayo ken iti linteg a 
mangsalaknib kadagiti pamilia ken kaarrubatayo. Saanko a suportaran dagiti inkapilitan a bakuna, 
maskara wenno lockdown. Nasken nga ikkatentayo ti nabuslon a panaggastos ti gobierno, 
agaramid iti limit dagiti termino ken nasken nga agbalin nga epektibo ti gobiernotayo. Saan a 
maawatan ti presyo dagiti pagnaedan, makan ken gas. Kayatko ti kapintasan para iti pamiliak 
ken siguradoak a kasta met kadakayo. Iti napalabas nagrigatak iti pinansial ken nagdanagak iti 
masakbayan ken nakaam-amak dayta a rikna. Kas agserserbi, mangnamnamaak nga iturongko ti 
komunidadtayo iti nasaysayaat a biag.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
AGUIRRE, John W. (Johnny)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
John W. Aguirre 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 47
johnnydist47.com
votejohnny47@gmail.com
(808) 754-2197
 Walo a tawen ti napalabas, nabotosanak a mangirepresentar iti North Shore ken 
Ko’olauloa ket adda ti duwa a konkreto a panggepko – simpaen ti kanal iti Kahuku High, ken 
agaramid iti sabali a kalsada idiau Laniakea. Nalpas iti proyekto ti kanal idi 2020, ken agrugi 
metten iti panagaramid ti sabali a kalsda iti Laniakea ita a summer. Saankayo a mapagyamanan 
amin iti suportayo iti sumagmamano a tawen, ket kas iti kanayon, nu adda iti parikotyo, 
tawagandak kuma, agrespondeak kadakayo iti kabiitan a tiempo. Mahalo nui loa, Sean
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
QUINLAN, Sean
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Sean A. Quinlan 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 47
voteseanquinlan.com
seanquinlan82@gmail.com
(808) 388-2823
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral57Representante ti Estado Dist 48
 Aloha, siak ni Asheemo Nefertiti Daily. Agtawenak iti 21 ken agkandidatoak kas 
Representante ti Estado iti Distrito 48. Nagturposak iti Castle High School ken miembroak ti Partido 
Berde. Nabalor kaniak dagiti boses ti komunidadtayo, ken panggepko nga itag-ay ken pabilgen 
dagiti agtutubo tapno agbalinda a responsable nga agtignay para iti nabalitokan a masakbayan ti 
Hawai’i a kayattayo amin a makita a mapasamak. Aloha ʻĀina—isublitayo dagiti umili iti dagatayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DAILY, Asheemo N. (Koda)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Asheemo Nefertiti Daily 
Partido Berde
Representante iti Estado, Dist 48
www.thedailybred.com
koda@wisdomcircles.com
(808) 349-9923
 Aloha! Siak ni Lisa Kitagawa ken naikkanak iti prebilihiyo nga agserbi kas 
Representante iti Estado para iti House District 48 manipod 2018. Naiyanak ken dimmakkelak 
idiay Kāneʻohe ken nagatendarak iti Ben Parker Elementary, King Intermediate, ken Castle High 
School. Nagadalak pay iti University of Hawai’i ti Mānoa ken naalak iti bachelor’s degreek iti Family 
Resources ken master’s degree iti Higher Education Administration. Iti agdama ket agserserbiak 
kas Vice Chair ti Finance Committee. Iti napalabas a nasurok nga 6 a tawen, nasuportarak ti 
distritotayo babaen ti panangiamammo ken panangipasa iti legislation a mangsuporta kadagiti 
eskwelaan ti komunidad tayo, mangprotektar iti natural a gameng tayo, karaman ti Kāneʻohe 
Bay ken iti Koʻolau Mountain watershed tayo, ken nakaipastrekak iti umabot nga $240 milyon 
iti a pondo para ti panangipatungpal ken panangipuhunan iti proyekto para iti komunidad ko. 
Nasolbar ko pay dagiti problema ti komunidad, kas kuma iti umad-ad-ado a bilang dagiti awanan 
ti pagtaenganna, dagiti pakaseknan iti cesspool, ken dagiti peste ti kuton.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KITAGAWA, Lisa C.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Lisa C. Kitagawa-Akagi 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 48
www.lisakitagawa.com
vote.kitagawa@gmail.com
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
58Representante ti Estado Dist 49
 Innem a tawen a nagserbi iti Distrito 49 ni Representante Scot Matayoshi. Iti agdama 
ket isuna iti Pangulo ti Komite iti Labor ken Operasyon ti Gobierno, nu sadinno ket kayatna a 
punoan dagiti bakante a posisyon iti estado tapno mapasayaat dagiti serbisyo ti gobierno, iplastar 
ti pagannurutan iti trabaho tapno mabalanse ti agpada nga interes ti publiko ken pribado, ken 
pasayaaten ti kina-epektibo ti gobierno. Ni Rep. Matayoshi ket nakaiyeg iti nasurok a $125 milyon 
kadagiti proyekto ti distrito manipod idi nagtugaw isuna iti posision, kaadduan kadagita ket para 
kadagiti pagadalan tayo. Nangbukel isuna iti drive thru a klinik para iti bakuna ti flu, panangisimpa 
kadagiti panglagipan iti gubat, aktibidades para iti panang-recycle kadagiti ewaste, panangdalus 
kadagiti karayan, ken dagiti drive ti school supply iti Castle Complex. Iti panawen ti pandemya, 
rinugian ni Rep. Matayoshi ti Farm to Car a programa iti Windwar Mall, a nangpalubos kadagiti 
mannalon nga agilako kadagiti nakakahon nga inapitda a deretso kadagiti residente. Inpasa na 
pay ti Farm to State a paglintegan, a mangkiddaw iti Estado a gumatang daytoy iti kanayunan 
a porsiyento iti maapit manipod kadagiti lokal a pamataudanna. Nu mabotosan manen, ni Rep. 
Matayoshi ket agtultuloy a lumaban para iti distrito tayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
MATAYOSHI, Scot
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Scot P. Matayoshi 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 49
scot@scotmatayoshi.com
 Kalpasan a makitak ti lehislasion iti umuna a gundaway, kayatko ti agbalin a timek 
a makatulong iti agdama ken masakbayan ti Hawai’i a kayattayo a makita. Nupay kurangak iti 
kapadasan iti politika, panagriknak ket addaanak iti banag nga umiso ti kinapateg na: nauneg a 
panagayat iti komunidad ken tarigagay a mangiturong iti pagsayaatan dagiti pagtaengantayo ken 
dagiti umilitayo. Babaen kadagiti content ko iti social media, napakatawak dagiti umili ti Hawai’i. 
Dawdawatek itan nga ikkandak iti tsansa tapno adda ti ipannakkel dagiti umilitayo. Mahalo para iti 
botosyo! Josiah “BrahKruz” Ubando
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
UBANDO, Josiah (BrahKruz)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Josiah  Ubando 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 49
www.brahkruz.com
josiah.nku@gmail.com
(808) 277-4337
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral59Representante ti Estado Dist 50
 Siak ni Brigadier General (Ret) Tim Connelly ket agkandidatoak a representante iti 
Dist 50 para iti House of Representatives iti Hawaii gapo ta kasapulan iti Kailua ken Hawaii ti 
makainspirar a mangidaulo nga adda turedna a mangiturong kadagiti nasken a pagsayaatan iti 
Hawaii. Indauloak dagiti Amerikano a Soldado iti laban idiay Iraq ken Afghanistan ken iti panawen 
ti pandemia ket naballigi amin dagitoy. Lumabanak a mangsalaknib kadagiti umilitayo, kissayan 
ti krimen ken kinaawan ti pagnaedan, padakkelen iti ekonomia tayo, suruan dagiti ubbing tayo, 
pasayaaten dagiti imprastruktura tayo, ken i-overhaul ti sistema a panagresponde iti emerhensia 
a didigra. Maysaak a tatang ti duwa a babbai ken foster parent iti tallo a tawen. TI GASTOS ITI 
PANAGBIAG TI KANGRUNAAN A PANUNUTEN ITI HAWAII! Nasken a pababaen tayo daytoy tapno 
agtalinaed dagiti pamilia ken annak tayo ditoy isla tayo ket saanda mapan iti Mainland. Suportarak 
iti kapulisan tayo, dagiti umuna a agresponde ken ti Hawaii National Guard. Siak ti addaan iti 
istratehiya a mangidaulo a kasapulan para iti Dist 50.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
CONNELLY, Timothy D.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Timothy D. Connelly 
Partido Republikan
Representante iti Estado, Dist 50
tim@connellyforkailua.com
(407) 487-6177
 Siak ni Mike Lee ken kadwak iti asawak ken 2 nga annakmi iti Kālaheo Hillside. Kailua 
ti pagtataenganmi ken nu sadinno ket naipasngay ken dimmakkel iti pamiliak. Agkandidatoak 
tapno irepresentarkayo iti State Legislature tapno mapasayaat iti panagbiag dagiti residente 
iti windward a banda babaen iti pangpapigsa iti sistema ti edukasiontayo, panagirot iti krimen, 
panangpalag-an kadagiti nadadagsen a buis, ken panangaywan kadagiti natural a pagalaantayo. 
Maysaak a manursuro, addaan bassit a negosyo, ken mangidadaulo iti komunidad. Ado ti 
kapadasak iti panangaramid kadagiti inisyatibo ti komunidad a kadua ti gobierno, lokal a negosyo, 
non-profit, ken pagadalan. Kas miembro daytoy a komunidad, maawatak dagiti inaldaw a karit 
a sangsanguen dagiti residentayo. Dagiti prioridadko ket agpokus ken mangsolbar kadagiti 
pakaseknan dagiti arubayan ti Kailua ken Kāne‘ohe kas kenka. Sipapakumbabaak a dumawat iti 
suportayo iti daytoy nga eleksion. Agtitinnulongtayo a mangaywan iti wagas ti panagbiagtayo iti 
windward a banda para iti sumarsaruno a henerasion.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
LEE, Mike
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Michael G.K. Lee 
Partido Demokratic
Representante iti Estado, Dist 50
mikeleeforhawaii.com
mikeleeforhawaii@gmail.com
(808) 388-6222
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
60Opisina ti Pagrebbengan dagiti Taga-Hawaii Mangiturong a Residente iti Molokai
 Siak ni Luana Alapa nga agtartaray para iti pannakapilik manen kas Mangiturong 
para iti Molokai-Lanai. Kas maysa a napeklan a Taga-Hawaii, napagasatanak iti posisyon nga 
agserbi kadagiti benepisiario tayo a Taga-Hawaii babaen dagiti sumaruno nga wagas: Edukasion, 
pagnaedan, salun-at ken kinatalged ti ekonomia. Ikagkagumaak a siguraduen a masurot dagitoy 
a tarigagay. Maysa a tarigagayko kas maysa a Mangiturturong ket iti makisosyo kadagiti dadduma 
nga ahensiya ti Hawaii tapno makitinnulong a mangsuporta kadagiti inisyatibo para iti nalaklaka 
a pagnaedan- panangisimpa iti balay, panangpalawa iti sakop ti panangaywan ti salun-at 
kadagiti rural a lugar, panangipaay iti serbsisyo para iti salun-at ti kapanunutan a kasasapulan 
iti islak a Molokai, panangnayon iti pondo para kadagiti educational scholarship, ken vocational 
a training para kadagiti Lahui tayo. Kas maysa nga agnanaed iti Ho’olehua, maawatak dagiti karit 
a sang-sanguek mismo iti agdama. Babaen iti suportayo, makaaramid tayo iti narangrang-ay a 
masakbayan para kadagiti Lahui tayo. Nu agbiag a nasayaat dagiti Taga-Hawaii, agbiag a nasayaat 
iti buo a Hawaii. Iti agserbi iti pada a parsua ket isu ti kasayaatan a regalo a maipaaymo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ALAPA, Luana
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Sandra Luana Alapa 
Mangiturong nga Residente iti Molokai
Alapa4oha.com
luanaalapa@gmail.com
(808) 782-1119
 Ni O Kunani Nihipali ko’u inoa, nagapu kadagiti Kalawao ken a Benepisyaryo ti 
Ho’olehua Homestead, Molokai. Iti agdama, agbibiyag tayo iti naidumduma a klase ti kagimungan. 
Ti 1993 Apology Law, 31 a tawenen ti napalabas ket inpasingkedna kadatayo a Katutubo a 
Taga-Hawaii ti dalan ti Panagkikinnaawatan, ngem kas Katutubo a Taga-Hawaii, napadasantayo 
iti awan kaes-eskanna a Panagpadespensar, rikna a censored, panangpilit ken panangpili 
iti napulitikoan a wagas, iti ekonomia, kagimungan ken kultura. Iti Panagpadespensar ket 
nasursurok pay ngem Panangrekognisar ken nasken a maisubli ti kinaparbeng kadagiti Katutubo 
a Taga-Hawaii ta dagitoy a sasainnek iti napalpalabas ket napaneknekan a pudno a makadadael. 
Natalna a nakipagnaedkami iti Umili ti Hawaii, ken iti sangalubungan, manipod idi umuna a 
simmanglad dagiti Gangannaet kadagiti igid ti baybay iti Pagilian tayo. Panagkikinnaawatan, saan 
a panagsisina ti dalan nga agturong iti solusyon ti panagpapada manipod kadagiti pakasaritaan 
ti kinaawan hustisia. Importante ti kinasensitibo iti kultura, nu saan ket dagiti plano ket kagudua 
laeng a plano tapno tumulong a mangisubli iti pammati iti lokahi.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
NIHIPALI, R. Kunani
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Ronald Kunani Nihipali Sr.
Mangiturong nga Residente iti Molokai
huliau2014@gmail.com
(808) 349-6407
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral61Mangiturong a Residente iti Kauai nga Opisina ti Pagrebbengan dagiti Taga-Hawaii
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
AHUNA, Dan
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Daniel C. Ahuna III
Mangiturong nga Residente iti Kauai
ahunadan@gmail.com
(808) 631-1125
 Kaano kadi a sumardeng nga agbalin a Hawaii iti Hawaii? Nu awanen dagiti 
Taga-Hawaii? Ita, nasurok nga 65% dagiti Taga-Hawaii ti agnanaed iti ruar ti Hawaii. Kritikal ti 
mapaspasamak. Matmatay ti pasiente. Nasken nga isardengtayon ti panagpadara. Nasken a 
sumabayt ken agtignaytayo a sigod ken nainsiriban nga usarentayo dagiti pamataudantayo 
tapno makargaan dagiti uwang ken pagtalinaedentayo a buo ti pamiliatayo iti pagtaengan. Iti 
nasurok tallo a dekada, nagnaedak ken nagserbiak ditoy ay-ayatentayo a Kauai. Inkagumaak ti 
nagtrabaho tapno matulungan dagiti pamilyatayo. Ti panagayatko kadagiti ubbing ken dagiti 
pamilyada iti mangidurduron kaniak. Ita, agsagsagabatayo ladta iti pareho nga economic 
genocide a napagsaritaantayo adon a dekada ti napalabas. Ti panggepko ket ti dumngeg, ibilang 
dagiti kasapulanyo, bigbigen dagiti adda a pamataudan, agplano ken agipatungpal. Nu mapiliak, 
kitaek ti pasiente, birukek iti sugat ken agusarak iti dadagsen. Addaak ditoy. Aramidendak nga 
mangitandudoyo, champion yo. Ibotos ni lindsey4kauai Mahalo
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
LINDSEY, Laura A.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Laura A. Lindsey 
Mangiturong nga Residente iti Kauai
lauralindseykauai@gmail.com
(808) 639-3038
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
62Opisina ti Pagrebbengan dagiti Taga-Hawaii Mangiturong iti Maysa a Lugar
 Iti panangawat iti fiduciary nga akem ti maysa a Trustee, kayatko ti tumulong a 
mangipatungpal kadagiti panggep nu apay a naaramid/naestablisar daytoy a public trust babaen 
iti Pederal a gobierno idi 1959 Pub. L. No.8603, Sec. 5. Stat. 4,5(1959) ti Congressional Record 
nangisina iti 203,500 nga ektaria tapno AGBENEPISYO dagiti Katutubo a tattao, ken dagiti estado: 
“Maysa kadagiti lima a panggep nga ipatungpal ti public trust ket iti “PANNAKAPASAYAAT DAGITI 
KONDISION DAGITI KATUTUBO A TAGA-HAWAII (NH).” Binigbig ti 1978 Constitutional Convention 
nga awan ti sabali a pagnaedan dagiti NH, ket kasapulanda garod ti proteksion para iti Kaadda/
Panagbiagda (Pagsasao, Kultura, Panangummong kadagiti karbengan, kdpy). Pinaabangan ti 
Estado ti Hawaii ti kaaduan kadagitoy a daga ken saanna nga ited iti 20% a Kita daytoy para iti 
“PANNAKAPASAYAAT DAGITI KONDISION DAGITI KATUTUBO A TAGA-HAWAII” . Naadaw manipod iti 
Civil Beat: “Binigbig ti kagudua kadagiti populasion ti awan pagnaedanna iti Oahu ti bagida a kas 
NH.” . Nasurok a 60% nga NH iti pimmanaw iti daga a pagtaenganda:(
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
AHU ISA, Lei
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Leinaala S.P. Ahu Isa 
Mangiturong iti Maysa nga Lugar
lahuisa@gmail.com
(808) 383-5201
 Ni Keli’i Akina, Ph.D. ket isu ti agdama nga OHA Trustee at large ken Presidente/
CEO iti Grassroot Institute.  Kas maysa a reformer, inpaay na iti bagi na iti panangisubli iti 
integridad ti OHA ken panangkontra iti panagkusit. Ni Trustee Akina ket nagballigi a nanggun-od 
iti independente a forensic review iti OHA ken nangipatungpal kadagiti kangrunaan a reporma. 
Ti misyon ni Akina para iti trust fund ti OHA ket tapno protektaran ti trust, padakkelen ti trust, 
ken usaren iti trust tapno maipaay amin a kasapulan dagiti Taga-Hawaii a pagnaedan, trabaho, 
edukasyon, ken panangaywan iti salun-at.   Ni Trustee Akina ket independiente a boses a 
mangitaktakder kadagiti benipisyaryo iti OHA.  Kasta met a makitintinnulong isuna iti dadduma 
a trustee tapno maipaay dagiti kasapulan ti Taga-Hawaii ken mamati isuna a kaya ti OHA nga 
ipakita ti nasayaat para iti amin a tao, Taga-Hawaii man wenno saan a Taga-Hawaii. Ni Trustee 
Akina ket nagserbi iti adu a board ken organisasyon. Nagturpos isuna iti Kamehameha School, 
Northwestern University, ken iti University of Hawaii.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
AKINA, Keli’i
LEGAL A NAGAN:
William Keli’i Akina 
Mangiturong iti Maysa nga Lugar
www.keliiakina.com
kelii@keliiakina.com
(808) 256-9792
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral63Mayor ti County ti Hawaii
 Aloha Isla ti Hawai’i, Idi Hulio 1, 2023, inbatik ti posisyon ko kas Bise Presidente ti 
Hawai’i Island Community Health Center tapno agtarayak a Mayor iti Hawai’i County. Adu ti 
naam-ammok a miyembro ti komunidad ken nakaalaak iti suporta iti isla. Iti tallo a platapormak 
nga AGBIAG, AGTRABAHO, AGAY-AYAM ket nakaturong iti kasapulan dagiti residente. Dagiti 
kwalipikasyon ko ket... -Kaaduan iti Padas kas Mangidadaulo iti nasurok a 30 a tawen a 
panagserbi iti komunidad ti Isla ti Hawaii. -Nagtrabaho iti 3 a tukad ti Gobierno. (County, Estado, 
Pederal) ken Komunidad. -Kinaeksperto iti Salun-at, Salun-at ti Panunot, Adiksyon, Panagbalin a 
Nagannak, ken Panangsolbar iti Problema. Kitaen dagiti prioridad ko iti website ko a kimoformayor.
com ken iti Facebook/IG nga account ko a @drkimoalameda. Kasapulan tayo ti panagbaliw ken 
kasapulan tayo daytoy itan! Ispalen Tayo ti Hawaii ken Pagtalinaeden ti Aloha! Mahalo
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ALAMEDA, C. Kimo
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Christian Kimo Alameda 
Mayor
kimoformayor.com
connect@kimoformayor.com
(808) 345-9280
 Iti agserbi kas Mayoryo ket pakaidayawak iti unos ti panagbiag. Manipod 2020, 
inkagumaan tayo nga aramiden a sustainable iti Isla ti Hawai’i nu adinno ket rumang-ay ti biag 
ti masakbayan a henerasion. Babaen ti umuna a termino tayo, nakapokus tayo nga agaramid iti 
balbalay para kadagiti lokal a pamilia, panangpasayaat kadagiti kritikal nga imprastruktura, ken 
panangpabaknang kadagiti pagalaan ti komunidad tapno mapangato iti kalidad ti biag para iti 
amin a residente. Pinalawan dagiti inkagkagumaanmi nga inar-aramid iti nalaka a tubo dagiti 
balbalay agingga 8,200 a kabalayan ken nasukatan iti proseso ti panagala ti permiso ti building 
kas kasayaatan manipod iti kaalasan a saad daytoy iti pagilian. Inton Disyembre, makapasemento 
kamin iti nasurok nga 100 a milya iti kalsada iti kabuuan ti isla ken marugian ti kadakkelan a 
proyekto ti imprastruktura ti county babaen iti panang-overhaul iti Hili Wastewater Treatment Plan. 
Napagbalinmi pay mamin-uppat a nginmato iti budget ti panangmentenar kadagiti Parke tapno 
mapasayaat ti panang-access, dagiti mausar, ken kinatalged ti isuamin. Iti suportayo, ituloymi 
iti agpuunan kadagiti tatao ken lugar a makagapu iti kinaespesyal ti isla tayo. Mahalo para iti 
konsiderasionyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ROTH, Mitch
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Mitchell D. Roth 
Mayor
mitchroth.org
mitchroth.chair@gmail.com
(808) 989-0385
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
64Miembro ti Consejo ti County ti Hawaii Dist 5
 Ni Matt Kanealii-Kleinfelder ket taga-Olaʻa ken agdama isuna a Miembro ti Consejo 
ti Distrito 5. Maysa isuna nga Ama iti tallo nga ubbing ken addaan iti bassit a negosyo ken 
kapadasan iti trades ken panagipaay iti serbisyo. Agtultuloy ti panangitandudona iti panagadal, 
arts, ken agrikultura. Kas sungbat na kadagiti pakaseknan ti komunidad, ninayunan ni Matt 
dagiti Posision ti Pulis idiay Puna, nagipasa iti linteg a mangitulok iti County Maintenance dagiti 
pribado a kalsada, pinasayaatna iti Stainback Highway, ken nagipaay iti libre a panangiguyod 
kadagiti Nabaybay-an a Lugan kadagiti pribado a sanikua. Nirugianna iti New Police ken Fire 
Station iti Kea’au, baro a Keaáu Community Center, Shipman Park Master plan, ken ti baro a Kea’au 
Mass Transit Hub. Iti patuloy a panagado ti populasion iti lugartayo, maawatanna ti kinapateg 
ti panagplano kadagiti legacy project para iti sumarsaruno a henerasion. Nanumo a kandidato 
ni Matt nga addaan iti integridad ken isu laeng ti kandidato nga epektibo a nakaaramid iti 
panagbaliw a nangpangato iti kalidad ti biagtayo! Mahalo ken IBOTOS NI MATT!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KANEALI’I-KLEINFELDER, Matt
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Matthew A. Kanealii-Kleinfelder 
Miyembro ti Consejo, Dist 5
punamatters@gmail.com
(808) 756-3933
 Aloha! Siak ni Ikaika Rodenhurst ken agkandodatoak ng agbalin a Miyembro ti 
Konseho iti Hawaii para iti Distrito 5 ti Puna Mauka. Addaak ditoy a mangiyeg iti namnama para 
iti Puna iti panawen a kasapulan tayo iti agidaulo a tumakder ken mangilaban iti nasaysayaat a 
Puna. Maysaak nga ama ti tallo nga annakko, coach iti football, ken lisensiyado a civil engineer. 
Dagiti kangrunaan nga adda kaniak ket integridad, komitment, ken panangngaasi. Dagiti 
prioridad ko ket iti pangpamayat kadagiti imprastruktura, mangirugi iti panagtibker iti komunidad 
ken pasayaaten ti kinatalged ti publiko. Maysaak a teamplayer a nakasagana ken makabael 
a makitrabaho iti sianisoman ken iti amin a kasapulan tapno magun-od dagiti kasapulan ti 
komunidad tayo. Iti sianisoman a miyembro ti Konseho, mayor, legislator, ken administratibo nga 
opisyal, negosyo, wenno umili. Agpapada iti bangka nga ayan tayo ket kasapulan nga aggaraw 
tayo amin nga agkakadwa tapno aggaraw iti isla tayo a Hawaii iti panagdur-as tapno makaited 
daytoy iti oportunidad ken masakbayan para kadagiti ubbing tayo ken iti sumaruno a henerasyon. 
Sipapakumbabaak nga agkiddaw iti botosyo
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
RODENHURST, Ikaika
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Steven Ikaika Rodenhurst 
Miyembro ti Consejo, Dist 5
ikaikarodenhurst.com
ikaika.rodenhurst@gmail.com
(808) 203-7450
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral65Miembro ti Consejo ti County ti Hawaii Dist 9
 Saan tayo a maibaga a makaited ti ekonomia iti kuwarta para kadagiti serbisyo ti 
gobierno wenno sweldo para kadagiti umili tapno masabet dagiti kasapulan. Suportarak dagiti 
aktibidades ken linteg a mangpasayaat iti kabaelan dagiti mannalon, addaan iti rancho, ken 
addaan iti babassit a negosyo tapno agballigida. Kontraek dagiti inisyatibo a mangnayun iti 
buwis kadagitoy a tattao. Nagserbi ni Evans iti State House ti Hawaii iti uneg ti 16 a tawen kas 
Pangulo a lider kadagiti komite ken nagserbi a Majority Floor Leader. Addaan isuna iti kapadasan 
iti panagplano ken panangbukel iti pagannurutan kadagiti panangipusige tapno makasarak 
iti epektibo a solusyon ken tapno masukatan dagiti prioridad no kasapulan. Naawat ni Evans ti 
Bachelor of Arts a degree na iti Business Administration manipod iti Evergreen State College. 
Nagnaed ni Evans idiay South Kohala iti 26 a tawen. Naipasngay ken napadakkel iti kultura ti 
panagtalon idiay Illinois. Kabilang isuna iti umuna a henerasyon ti nakapagleppas iti kolehiyo. 
Mahalo para iti konsiderasyonyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
EVANS, Cindy
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Cynthia F.W. Evans 
Miyembro ti Consejo, Dist 9
cindyevanscountycouncil.com
cynthiaevans@aol.com
(808) 345-5810
 Aloha kākou! Siyak ni James Hustace ken tartarigagayak ti suportayo a 
mangirepresentar iti komunidad ti North ken South Kohala. Ti panggep ko ket makitinnulong iti 
kakadwa a miyembro ti komunidad tapno mapasayaat dagiti serbisyo iti County, makaadal iti 
kūpuna tayo, agdengngeg iti kailian, ken makabuo iti napigsa a relasyon kadagiti organisasyon 
ti komunidad. Addaanak iti natibker a koneksiyon iti Hawai’i. Dimmakkelak idiay Waimea ken 
iti naglablabas a tawen nagbirbirukak iti wagas tapno makatulongak iti komunidadko babaen 
iti akem kas mangidadaulo iti Waimea Community Association, South Kohala Traffic Safety 
Committee, County Redistricting Commission, ken Waimea Trails & Greenways. Sumangsango 
dagiti komunidad tayo iti adu a karit, ket nasken a makitinnulong tayo iti County, Estado, ken 
Pederal a kakadwa tayo a mangbiruk iti solusyon para iti kinatalged dagiti residente tayo, 
papigsaen ti imprastruktura tayo, ken panangaywan iti ʻāina tayo. Agtitinnulong tayo ken 
ipaay iti North ken South Kohala ti mangitakder a nakaramot iti komunidad. Mahalo para iti 
konsiderasyonyo. Ammuen ti dadduma pay iti hustaceforcouncil.com. Imua!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HUSTACE, James E.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
James E. Hustace 
Miyembro ti Consejo, Dist 9
hustaceforcouncil.com
hustaceforcouncil@gmail.com
(808) 464-2570
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral66County ti Maui Miembro ti Consejo ti Makindaya a Maui
 Kabayatan ti immuna a tallo a terminok iti pagakeman, inkagumaak a pinagbalin iti 
Maui County a natibtibker ken ti gobiernotayo a mas responsable iti aglawlaw ken iti ekonomia. 
Kadagidi panagpipili ti 2020 ken 2022 inrugik dagiti pannakapabaro ti charter, naglayus ti 
panangaprubar dagiti botante, a nangpataud iti immuna a Departamento ti Agrikultura ti county 
ken nangestablisar iti East Maui Water Authority tapno mangted ti ad-adu a danum para kadagiti 
residente ken mannalon ken nasaysayaat a panangimaton kadagiti lokal a pamataudan ti 
danum. Insuratko ti kapigsaan a linteg ti munisipio a mangsalaknib iti aglawlaw ti pagilian a 
mangiparit iti panagusar kadagiti kemikal a pestisidio ken abono kadagiti daga a kukua ti county 
a mangsalaknib iti salun-at dagiti trabahador ti county ken ti aglawlawtayo bayat a makissayan ti 
pannaka-expose ti county iti nangina a litigasion. Babaen ti panangparnuay iti immuna a posision 
ti arkeologo ti county, nasalaknibak dagiti pamataudan ti kultura bayat ti panang-streamline 
kadagiti proyekto ti county babaen iti panangpapartak iti proseso ti pannakaaprubar ken 
panangkissay kadagiti gastos ti county kadagiti konsultant. Ituloyko ti agtrabaho tapno maisubli ti 
kinasiglat ti ekonomia bayat ti panagrekobre ken panagimbagtayo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SINENCI, Shane
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Shane Michael Sinenci 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Daya ti Maui)
votesinenci.com
ssinenci@yahoo.com
(808) 264-8919
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral67
County ti Maui Miembro ti Consejo ti Makinlaud a Maui
 Panawenen para iti trailblazing a panangidaulo! Kas Ama ken addaan iti negosyo, 
siak ti pudno a boses dagiti umili. Idiayak ti piskal a responsable a panangirepresentar 
a mangpangpangruna iti komunidadtayo bayat ti pannakaited ti baro ken nainsiriban a 
kapanunutan. Saanak a nakatali iti siasinuman wenno dadduma a grupo nga adda sabali nga 
interesna. Panggepko ti agbalin a rangtay dagiti solusion, saan a lapped. Iti panagtitinnulongtayo, 
maisublitayo ti Maui a lugar nu sadinno a rumang-ay ken sumayaat dagiti pamiliatayo. Ti Maui a 
lumakayan dagiti keikitayo. Idi maika-8 ti Agosto, napukawko iti pagtaengan ken dagiti negosyok 
gapo iti uram. Nupaykasta, nabendisionanak ta natalged ti pamiliak. Ammok nu kasano ti 
maawanan ti namnama ken mapukaw ti amin a nagbanbannogan iti apagdarikmat. Kalpasan 
ti uram, inkagumaak nga insakad ti pamilia ken trabahadorko. Kayatko nga ipakat ti kasta a 
kinaandur iti panangisubli iti namnama iti Lahaina ken iti sibubukel a County iti Maui. IBOTOS NI 
LOLO
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
ACQUINTAS, Lorien (Lolo)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Lorien  Acquintas 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Laud ti Maui)
loloacquintas.com
team@voteforlolo.com
(808) 446-0106
 Aloha mai, siak ni Tamara Paltin, maysa nga asawa ken nanang iti duwa ken 
agkandidatoak nga agserbi kas Miembro ti Consejo iti West Maui para kadakayo. Madama nga 
agserserbiak iti maikatlo a terminok ken nakagun-odak iti ado a kapanunutan ken kapadasan 
kadagiti proseso ken panagserbi kas maysa a nabotosan nga opisyal, panangipasa kadagiti 
ordinansa ken panang-oversee kadagiti proseso ti budget ti county. Agingga ita, natarabayak 
iti West Maui Community Plan tapno agbalin a linteg, nangipatungpal iti panagbaliw iti zoning 
para kadagiti proyekto ti pagnaedan kas iti Waikapu Country Town ken Kilohana Makai kasta 
met nga inrepresentar ko iti Consejo tayo iti Executive Committee iti Hawaii State Association of 
Counties. Iti pokus ko manipod ita ket ti makatulong iti County aglalo iti panangpatalged manen 
ken panangpatakder manen iti Lahaina. Manipod iti aldaw kalpasan dagiti puor idi Agosto 8, 
nakipasetak kadagiti panangsuportar kadagiti residente tayo babaen ti panangitakder iti Napili 
Noho hub, iti panangiturod kadagiti starlink, panangipaay iti update, ken dadduma pay.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
PALTIN, Tamara Akiko Maile
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Tamara A.M. Paltin 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Laud ti Maui)
TamaraPaltin.com
tampaltin@gmail.com
(808) 870-0052
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral68Miembro ti Consejo ti County ti Maui Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu
 Panawenen para ti BARO A PANANGIDAULO. Idatagko ti 20 tawen a propesional a 
kapadasak kas abogado agraman iti serbisiok kas Legislative Attorney para iti Consejo ti County iti 
Maui ken Hawaii House of Representatives. Maawatak ti linteg ken nu kasano nga usaren ti linteg 
tapno matulungan dagiti umili a bumangon manipod iti mano a dekada a kinaawan ti hustisya 
ken saan nga umno a pagalagadan a nangpasakit iti ado a nagagaget a lokal nga umili. Awanen 
iti KURAP A POLITIKO. “Uston!” Saan a naprotektaran ti County iti Maui dagiti umili. Panawenen nga 
agyaman iti kalabanko iti serbisiona ket ituloy tayo iti sabali a panangidaulo nga addaan ti baro a 
kapanunotan nu kasano a matulungan dagiti umili. Nasken a mausar dagiti pamataudan tayo a 
mangsuporta kadagiti lokal nga umili ken lokal a babassit a negosyo, saan a dagiti agkakangina 
a hotel ken developer. Ilablaban ko iti 25% a panangpangato iti Union, panangibangon iti Lahaina 
para kadagiti lokal, nalaka a pagnaedan para iti amin, basbassit a regulasion para iti lokal a 
negosyo, napateg a panangaywan iti aglawlaw, karbengan ken pannaripato iti salun-at dagiti 
babbai, financial security para kadagiti pamilia, ken hustisya para kadagiti Taga-Hawaii.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
FORREST, James (Nahele)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
James  Forrest 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Wailuku-Waihee-
Waikapu)
votenaheleforrest.com
naheleforrest@gmail.com
(808) 758-9096
 Siak ni Alic Lee, agandidato para iti pannakapilik manen kas Miyembro ti Konseho iti 
Waluku-Waihee-Waikapu para ti County iti Maui. Naipasngay ken dimmakelak iti Maui, nagadalak 
idiay St. Anthony School ken nagun-od ko ti Bachelor of Arts a degree iti Political Science manipod 
iti Chaminade University. Ti nanang ni tatang ko a ni Minnie Gomez Lee, ket nagnaed iti Wells 
Street ken ti nanang ni nanang ko a ni Miriam Kanakamaika’i, ket nagnaed iti Kahookele Street 
idiay Wailuku. Dagiti nagannak ko nga da Angelo ken Momi Lee ket pareho nga nagtrabaho iti 
Hawaiian a Kompania ti Telepono idiay Wailuku. Nauneg ti pannakairamot ti biagko ditoy. Nagadu 
ti sang sanguen tayo a kritikal a problema, kas kuma iti panagkasapulan iti nalaka a pagnaedan, 
trabaho a napintas ti sweldo, panangpasayaat iti salun-at ken kinatalged ti publiko, panangaywan 
iti kultura ken aglawlawtayo, panang-diversify iti ekonomiya tayo, panangpapigsa kadagiti 
imprastruktura ken pagalaan tapno mas makasaganatayo ti puor ken didigra iti masakbayan. 
Nupay dakkel ti problema a sangsangoentayo, nasken nga agtalinaed ken tumanortayo a 
napigpigsa nga agmaymaysa. Sipapakumbabaak a mangkiddaw iti botosyo ken suporta. Mahalo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
LEE, Alice L.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Alice L. Lee 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Wailuku-Waihee-
Waikapu)
aliceleehawaii@gmail.com
(808) 280-0035
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral69Miembro ti Consejo iti Kahului ti County ti Maui
 Ni Natalie A Kama alyas Tasha Kama - Kandidato ti Demokrat para iti District 
Residency Seat iti Consejo ti County ti Maui (Kahului) P.O Box 2884 Wailuku, HI 96793 Website: 
FriendsoftashaKama.org Email: tasha@friendsoftashakama.com Telepono: 808-385-3400 May 20, 
2024 Nagkandidatoak idi 2018 gapo iti krisis iti pagnaedan a sangsanguen ti county tayo. Rimmuar 
ti Covid idi 2020 ket naisinatayo iti lubong ken iti tunggal maysa. Dagiti puor idiay Upcountry ken 
West Maui ket isu ti makagapo a kinmarkaru iti mamin-ado ti krisis iti pagnaedan. Kangrunaan 
latta a prioridad ti pagnaedan. Itultuloyko nga ipapati ti agtrabaho tapno maibangon ti Lahaina 
babaen iti panangtarabay ti komunidad. Nasken nga ibiroktayo ti sangapada a pannakaagasa 
tayo, planuen tayo ken agbirok tayo iti kasapulan a pondo para iti amin a residente ti Lahaina 
tapno makasublida iti pagtaenganda. Daytoy ti komitmentko tapno manayunan ti imbentaryo 
iti pagnaedan, tapno masiguro iti pagtrabahuan ken oportunidad iti ekonomia para kadagiti 
residente tayo, kas ituloy tayo iti Aloha I Ke Kahi I Ke Kahi.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KAMA, Tasha
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Natalie A. Kama 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Kahului)
Friendsoftashakama.org
kahukama@gmail.com
(808) 463-2963
 Boses tayo, pagtaenantayo, Maui tayo. Agkandidatoak tapno maisubli ti Maui babaen 
iti innobasyon, progreso, ken tibker ti nakem a mangsolbar kadagiti karigatan a problema tayo. 
Retiradoak, 22 a tawen a beterano ti Navy nga addaan iti natibker a kannawidan iti panangidaulo: 
responsibilidad, awan pangadua a komitment, ken kabaelan a mangidaulo iti tengnga ti rigat. 
Dika agkamali - Agpeligro ti estabilidad ti Maui. Karbengan iti tao ti pagnaedan, ngem nagbalin 
nga arapaap ti pagnaedan para iti nasurok a kagudua dagiti lokal a pamiliatayo nga agtatrabaho 
tapno laeng adda pagtaengan ken makanda. Kabayatanna, 1/4 kadagiti pagtaengan tayo ket 
kukua dagiti saan a residente, nakadepende iti ekonomiya tayo iti turismo, ken dagiti taltalon 
dagiti pamilia ket marigatan a makikompetensiya kadagiti nalaka ken imported a makan. Planok a 
paaduen ti nalaka a pagnaedan, solbaren dagiti banag a makaigapo iti panagtagikua dagiti saan 
a residente, ken i-diversify ti ekonomiya tayo babaen iti panangsuporta iti babassit a negosyo, 
dagiti karera iti taripato ti salun-at ken panagnegosio, sustainable nga agrikultura ken industriya ti 
pelikula. No agkakadwatayo, maaramid tayo a natalged ken narang-ay iti Maui.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KAMEKONA, Carol Lee
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Carol Lee  Kamekona 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Kahului)
carolleekamekona.com
carolleekamekona@outlook.com
(808) 264-9385
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral70County ti Maui Miembro ti Consejo ti Abagatan a Maui
 Aloha. Siak ni Tom Cook, iti agdama a Miembro ti Consejo iti County iti South Maui, 
dawdawatek iti suportayo iti eleksiyon ita a tawen. Iyegko ti balanse iti Consejo. Addaanak iti 
lokal nga adal manipod iti 50+ a tawen ko kas katutubo a residente. Nakapadakkelak iti 5 nga 
aannakko a nagturpos amin kadagiti pangpubliko nga eskwelaan iti Maui. Pinasayaat ko dagiti 
kasanayak iti panagpatakder ken panagsolbar ti problema kas maysa nga apprentice a karpentero 
iti maysa kontraktor idi 1989. Dagiti kapadasak mismo, kas maysa nga employado ken iti maudi ket 
kas addaan iti sarili a kompanya nga addaan iti 40 nga empleyado; panag-apply ken pananguray 
kadagiti permiso ti building; panangbayad iti renta; panangbayad iti salda; panangpadakkel 
kadagitt aannak ken panangaywan kadagiti lolo ken lolak; dagitoy ket nangited kanyak iti 
kapadasan nga agserbi iti Consejo iti County. Addaanak iti sentido kumon ken pannakaawat 
kadagiti kasapulan dagiti umili iti lokal a gobierno tayo. Sipapakumbaaak a mangdawat iti suporta 
ken botosyo inton Agosto 10 ken Nobiyembre 5. Mahalo. Ibotos ni Tom Cook, Consejo ti County iti 
Maui.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
COOK, Tom
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Thomas M. Cook 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Abagatan ti Maui)
friendsoftomcook.com
cooksynergy@gmail.com
(808) 870-2205
 Kandidato ni Kelly King para iti tugaw ti distrito iti South Maui para iti Konseho ti 
County iti Maui, nu adinno ket indaulona ti sustainability ken aktibo a residente manipod nagbalin 
a nanang idi 1985. Nagnaed isuna idiay Maui iti nasurok a 40 tawen kadwana ni Bob nga asawana 
nken ti duwa nga annakda, agpada a naipasngay ken dimmakkel idiay Maui (nagturpos idiay Maui 
High School ken UH Mānoa), ken duwa nga apoko. Nabayagen nga itantandudona iti kinatibker, 
natalged a komunidad, dagiti prioridadna ket diversified circular economy, lokal a renewable 
energy, regenerative nga agrikultura, kinaadda ti makan, nalaka a pagnaedan, panagpapada iti 
kagimungan, panagsagana iti emerhensia, panangaywan iti aglawlaw, ken panangimanehar 
iti shoreline retreat. Aktibo ni King kas board member iti adu a non-profit, kas iti: • Hawaiʻi 
Renewable Energy Alliance • Maui Farmers Union board • Akakū: Maui Community Television • Hui 
Mālama Learning Center • UH Maui College Sustainable Sciences Management Advisory Council • 
Maui Nui Food Alliance Steering Committee
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KING, Kelly Takaya
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Kelly T. King 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Abagatan ti Maui)
www.kellykingformaui.com
ktkmaui@me.com
(808) 283-1954
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
71Miyembro ti Consejo iti County ti Maui Makawo-Haiku-Paia
 Iti panagpatuloytayo kalpasan ti epekto dagiti uram idi maika-8 ti Agosto, awanen 
ti nangnangrunapay ngem iti TIMEK TI KOMUNIDAD kadagiti lugar ti pangngeddeng. Mas 
rimmigrigat pay ti maaddaan iti disente ken NALAKA a pagnaedan iti sapasap a county. Kasapulan 
ti umili tayo iti tulong. Kas maysa a mangitantandudo/mangisursuro iti karbengan dagiti 
agab-abang babaen ti Maui Housing Hui, ammok nga ad-adda pay ti kasapulan. Kasapulantayo 
dagiti tao iti opisina a mangipasnek iti pagsayaatan DAGITI KOMUNIDADTAYO NGA UMUNA. Kas 
maikedkeddeng dagiti wagas tapno maiadayo ti ekonomiyatayo iti turismo, kasapulantayo ti 
agaramid iti baro a wagas tapno masustenaran ti umili dagiti pamiliada. Nasken a suportarantayo 
dagiti mannalon, tapno umado pay iti produksion ti makantayo. Nasken a pagbalayentayo dagiti 
klerk iti grocery, empleado ti eskwelaan, dagiti agtatrabaho iti hotel ken para iti panangaywan 
ti salun-at tayo. Nasken a bumangontayo manen kas UNAENTAYO TI TIMEK TI KOMUNIDAD. 
Botosanyo kuma amin iti siyam a tugaw ti consejo, ket nu kasta, markaanyo iti kahon ti BOONE. 
Mahalo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
BOONE, Nara
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Nara  Boone 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Makawao-Haiku-
Paia)
votenaraboone.com
votenaraboone@gmail.com
(808) 283-3982
 Aloha, siak ni Nohe Uu-Hodgins. Iti agdama, Miyembro ti Consejo iti Makawao, Paia, 
Distrito iti Haiku. Naipasngay ken dimmakelak iti Paia ken adu nga henerasyon ti pamiliak iti 
nagnaed idiay Maui. Sipapannakkelak nga ina ti uppat. Ti asawak, ni Koa, ken ti pamiliak ket 
agnanaed iti Makawao. Kas Miyembro ti Consejoyo, mamatiak nga adda balanse iti nagbaetan ti 
nainsiriban a panagdakkel, respeto iti aglawlaw, ken respeto iti lokal a kulturatayo. Iti agdama a 
terminok, inlabanko dagiti trabahador ken nalaka a pagnaedan ken intadudok ti pannakagatang 
ti lugar para iti isuamin iti daga ti Pauwela. Kalpasan ti makadadael nga uram iti Maui, ad-adda 
a kasapulantayo ti pagnaedan ita. Mangnamnamaak a maited ti lugar a mabalin nga awagan 
dagiti appokotayo a pagtaengan. Pakaidayawak nga irepresentar ti distritotayo ken iti taengko 
nga isla, mangnamnamaak a maitultuloyko daytoy. Para iti ad-adu nga impormasion wenno tapno 
makiuman kaniak maidawat a bisitaen ti website ko iti votenohe.com.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
UU-HODGINS, Nohe
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Nohelani M.T. Uu-Hodgins 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Makawao-Haiku-
Paia)
votenohe.com
votenohe@gmail.com
(808) 269-0691
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral72Miembro ti Consejo iti Upcountry ti County ti Maui
 Aloha Maui! Agkandidatoak para iti tugaw iti Consejo ti County iti Upcountry tapno 
makaipaayak iti positibo a panagbaliw ken agserbiak iti komunidadtayo. Ti pokusko ket ti magun-
od ti food sovereignty babaen ti regenerative nga agrikultura. Mamatiak a dagiti kabilegan a 
balor ket ti komunidad. Makisosyotayo iti Maui Pono Network tapno masolbartayo ti parikot kas 
iti nalaka a pagnaedan, karbengan ti danom, ado a nasustansia a makan, panangmanehar iti 
turismo, ken panangala ken panangisubli iti daga. Iti sumaruno a duwa a tawen, nasken nga 
agbalin a prioridad ti panangibangon iti Lahaina Town kasta met ti panangsuporta kadagiti 
mannalon ken pamilia ti Upcountry. Nasken a denggentayo, ken makitinnulongtayo iti amin 
nga apektado iti uram idi maika-8 ti Agosto iti mannakaawat ken manangilak-am a wagas. 
Nakakomitak a mangiunay-unay iti panangaywan iti aglawlaw babaen dagiti creative a 
pagalagadan a solusion. Makipaset kadakami iti panangaramid ti narang-ay ken sustainable a 
masakbayan para iti Maui Nui. Mahalo!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
CRUZ, Jocelyn N.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jocelyn N. Cruz 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Ngato ti Provincia)
jocelyn@knowthyflow.com
(702) 419-0700
 Yuki Lei Sugimura, residente ti Kula ken mangpannakkel a nagturpos iti Baldwin High 
School, agdama nga agserserbi a kas Miyembro ti Consejo iti Maui County a mangireprepresentar 
iti Upcountry Residency Area. Agserserbi iti Consejo manipud 2017 , agdama ni Sugimura a Vice-
Chair ti Consejo ken mangidadaulo ti Budget, Finance ken Komite ti Panagdur-as ti Ekonomia. 
Sakbay ti tiempona iti Consejo, nagserbi ni Sugimura a kas Maui Field Representative para 
kenni Senador iti Estados Unidos Hirono ken Dios ti aluadna a Senador iti Estados Unidos 
Akaka. Kanayon a pakaseknan ni Yuki Lei ti pannakabukel ti komunidad. Maysa a driving force 
ni Sugimura iti likod ti adu a pasamak iti komunidad, karaman ti First Friday ti Wailuku ken Maui 
Matsuri. Itultuloy ni Sugimura ti pannakikonektarna iti komunidad babaen iti Talk Story with Yuki 
Lei a seryena iti Farmers Market ti Upcountry. Iti tinawtawen a kapadasanna, sipapakinakem ni 
Yuki lei iti panagtultuloyna nga agserbi iti sibubukel a Maui County.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
SUGIMURA, Yuki Lei Kashiwa
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Yuki Lei Kashiwa Sugimura 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Ngato ti Provincia)
www.yukileisugimura.com
yukilei.sugimura@gmail.com
(808) 870-8047
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral73Miembro ti Consejo iti Lanai ti County ti Maui
 Aloha, siak ni Gabe Johnson a Miembro ti Consejo iti Maui para iti isla ti Lāna’i. 
Dawatek man ti suportayo kas ituloy tayo nga agturong iti masakbayan bayat ti saan a 
mapakadaan a panawen. Kabayatan ti panagmiembrok iti Consejo, inpapatik a nangilaban iti 
nalaka a pagnaedan babaen ti panagaramidko kadagiti linteg a mangun-una kadagiti nabayag 
a residente ken pagbalinen daytoy a pudno a nalaka. Ammok a nginmina la unay iti gastos ti 
panagbiag iti pagilian tayo isunga inaramidko ia libre ti panaglugan iti bus para kadagiti nababa 
ti panggedanna ken libre para iti amin a summer ken winter PALS ditoy county tayo. Agtultuloy a 
sumuportarak kadagiti nonprofit nga agserserbi kadagiti agrigrigat ken ituloy ko nga agaramid 
iti linteg a mangsuporta kadagiti mannalon, agtrabtrabaho, ken dagitoy pudno nga agkasapulan 
la unay. Maysaak a napigsa a mangisulsulong iti adbokasiya a mangprotektar iti aglawlaw tayo 
ken ipannakkel ko a mangituloy iti trabaho para ti komunidadtayo. Maidwat a mapan iti www.
gabe4council.com para iti ad-adu nga impormasyon. Mahalo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
JOHNSON, Gabe
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Gabriel L. Johnson 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Lanai)
www.gabe4council.com
gabejohnsonwest111@gmail.com
(808) 559-0980
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
74Miembro ti Consejo iti Molokai ti County ti Maui
 Aloha, sititibker a nakakomitak iti komunidad ko babaen iti serbisyo, panagboluntaryo, 
ken iti tarigagayko iti praktikal a diskarte tapno masiguro a kabaelan kadagiti residente tayo ti 
housing. Kadwak ti asawak a ni Nani, agtultuloy nga agnanaed kami iti laud a paset ti Molokai, nu 
sadinno ket napadakkel mi iti maymaysa nga anakmi a babai, a kas iti adu kadagiti naud-udi a 
henerasyon, pimmanaw iti Hawaii gapu iti nangina a panagbiag a mas pinarigat ti agkakangina a 
gundaway ti housing. Nupaykasta, mangnamnama kami latta a maysa aldaw ket makitami dagiti 
apokomi a dumakkel ditoy. Malaksid iti panagbalin a negosiante iti 18 a tawen, nagserbiak met kas 
konsultant iti nalaka a pagnaedan ken dagiti kauhale a proyekto, iti panangituloyko iti learning 
track ko tapno mailasin dagiti baro ken naisal-salumina a wagas tapno makitinnulungak iti mas 
epektibo a wagas ken akses iti pagnaedan para kadagiti lokal a pamiliatayo. Agkandidatoak para 
iti tugaw ti Molokai iti County Council ti Maui, ket dawatek ti konsiderasion ken panangibotosyo 
kaniak. Mahalo
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
PELE, John
LEGAL A NAGAN:
John P. Tau Tau Pele 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Molokai)
johnpele.com
aloha@johnpele.com
(808) 658-5114
 Aloha nui! ‘O wau o Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, a kupa’aina iti Molokai, ken nanang 
iti duwa a keiki, a mangituntunda iti panagayat ko nga ag-invest iti dekalidad a panagbiag 
para iti pagtaengan tayo, tapno mapanawan daytoy a nasaysayaat ngem idi nadanunak para 
iti sumarsaruno pay a henerasyon. Ipanpannakkel ko a nakalpasak iti Molokai High School iti 
kinaabogado ken sertipiko a para iti Environmental Law ken Native Hawaiian Law, ken master’s 
degree iti business administration. Bayat daytoy a tallo a termino iti consejo, naging prebilihiok 
nga agtrabaho iti sibayyo kas agung-ungar tayo manipod kadagitoy karit ti biag tapno agbalin 
tayo pay a natibtibker a komunidad. Pakaidayan toy numo ti agpatuloy nga agserbi iti umili ti 
County iti Maui tapno masiguro ti pannakasuportar ti boses ti komunidad tayo ken kinaadda 
ti nasirib a panagdesisyon a nakasentro iti panangprotektat kadagiti āina tayo ken polisiya a 
mangsolusyon kadagiti inaldaw a pagrigatan dagiti residente tayo. Mangnamnamaak iti patuloy a 
panagprogreso tayo nga agkakadwa.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, Keani
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Keani  Rawlins-Fernandez 
Miyembro ti Consejo (Molokai)
votekeani.com
kokuakeani@gmail.com
(808) 351-0263
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
75Miembro ti Consejo ti County ti Kauai
 Aloha iti amin, siak ni Abraham F. Apilado Jr. ken agkandidatoak para iti Consejo 
ti County iti Kaua’i. Kas maysa nga ama ken napamiliaan, maawatak ti kinapateg ti napigsa a 
komunidad para iti sumaruno a henerasion. Iti talentok iti public speaking ken komitment a 
tumakder para iti husto, iyegko ti naisang-sangayan a boses iti komunidadtayo. Kas advisory 
panel member para iti Western Pacific Regional Fisheries Management Council, agpadpada 
nga itandudok dagiti agkalkalap iti agdama ken masakbayan. Sursuruak dagiti bisita ken 
lokal panggep iti panagkalap, nga ipaganetget ti husto a panagaywan ken panamagtalinaed. 
Iti napudno a panagayatko iti Kaua’i ken iti umilitayo ti mangidurduron iti dedikasionko a 
mangsaluad iti wagas ti panagbiagtayo. Maysaak a lokal a lalaki a nakasagana nga agserbi iti 
komunidadtayo, a mangsiguro a mangngeg ken marespeto dagiti boses ti residentetayo. Ay-
ayatek ti Kaua’i, namnamaek nga irepresentarkayo iti umadani nga eleksion. Mahalo
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
APILADO, Abe, Jr. (Aba-G)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Abraham F. Apilado Jr
Miyembro ti Consejo
a.apilado74@gmail.com
(808) 720-7560
 Naiyanak ken dimmakelak iti Kaua’i ken nagsubliak iti pagtaengak kalpasan ti 
Kolehiyo idi 2013 tapno agserbi a Doktor iti Chiropractic. Iti nasurok nga 10 a tawen, nagserbiak iti 
komunidadko babaen iti pribado a panagusarko iti naadalko ken daduma a non-profit a board iti 
agduduma a sekta ti komunidad tayo. Iti kapadasak nga agtrabaho iti sustainable a solusyon para 
iti pareho ng pribado ken nonprofit a lubong ket isu ti nangiduron kaniak a mang-awat a mabalin 
iti positibo ken sistematiko a panagbaliw. Nabotosanak a Miembro ti Consejo iti County idi 2022 
ket dawatek manen iti pannakapilik tapno maituloyko iti mangprotektar kadagiti lokal a pamilia 
tayo, mangbawas iti gastos ti biag, ken agpatakder iti panagballigi ti masakbayan tayo. Iti nagan 
ti pamiliak, ti asawak a ni Nikki, ken iti maladaga mi a ni Kīlaʻa, mahalo para iti panagreggetyo a 
mangpasayaat iti komunidad tayo, ken dawatenmi ti botosyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
BULOSAN, Addison
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Addison C. Bulosan 
Miyembro ti Consejo
www.addisonbulosan.com
addisonbulosan@gmail.com
(808) 652-1442
 Agkandidatoak para iti pannakapili manen a kas miyembro iti Konsejo iti Kauai 
County. Iti panagserbik kas maysa nga agserserbi iti publiko iti duwapulo-ken-tallo a tawen, dati 
a Mayor iti Isla tayo iti sangapulo a tawen ken agdama a miyembro ti konsejo iti uppat a tawen, 
adda maibingay ko a sirib ken kapadasan a patuloy ko nga ibingay iti panagaramid iti desision 
para iti sibubukel a Komunidad ti Isla tayo. Namnamaek nga ituloy ti napasnek a panagtrabaho 
tapno maipaay iti pagtaengantayo nga Isla ti agtultuloy a suporta tapno masiguro nga amin 
manipod iti Keiki agingga iti Kupuna ket agbiag a natalged ken nasalun-at. Kas agdama a 
Committee Chair ti Planning, namnamaek ti panangirugi iti Plano a Panagdur-as ti East Kauai 
kasta met ti agtultuloy a suportak iti amin a proyekto para iti sibubukel nga Isla nga maaramiden 
iti agdama. Kasapulan dagiti Nalaka a Pagnaedan, Panagsagana iti Didigra ken Panangmentenar 
iti Kalsada ti agtultuloy a suporta ken aksion. Ibotos ni Bernard Carvalho Jr Napaneknekan iti 
Dedikado a Panangidaulo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
CARVALHO, Bernard P., Jr.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Bernard P. Carvalho Jr.
Miyembro ti Consejo
carvalhob003@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-7489
 Aloha, magagaranak nga agserbi iti makiuppat a termino kas Miyembro ti Konseho ti 
County iti Kauai. Iti “Unaen Pay Dagiti Umili” ti agtultuloy a mottok ken ti kangatuan a priyoridad 
ko babaen iti pangipamuspusan tapno agdengngeg, mapan iti lugaryo, awaten dagiti karit 
a naipakita, ken agtrabaho kadagiti komunidad ken umili tapno makaaramid iti solusyon. Iti 
panangpasimpa iti imprastruktura tayo tapno makaipaay tayo iti nasay-sayaat a pagnaedan 
ken papigsaen dagiti negosyo tayo tapno saan tayo nga agdipende iti sabali bayat iti paspas a 
panagbaliw ti lubong. Nasken nga agtalinaed tayo a napigsa nga agkakadwa; pagtalinaeden tayo 
ti kapanunutan ti kultura ti nagduduma a nagapuan tayo. Iti panagpasayaat iti kalidad ti biag, iti 
wayawaya ti pagpilian ken panagaramid iti dakdakkel nga istratehiya ti panangtimbeng iti peggad 
ket importante kaniak. Iti padas ko iti engineering, negosyo, edukasyon ken panagboluntaryo iti 
mediation, agrikultura iti purok, ekonomia ken media, dagitoy ket mangtulong kaniak a makaawat. 
Nabendisionanak nga agbalin a nanang ken lola nga agnanaed iti Kilauea. Iti Konseho iti 
kangrunaan a pokus ko ken pangipaayak iti oras ko. Mahalo para iti panangikonsiderayo kaniak 
kas representanteyo.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
COWDEN, Felicia
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Felicia Eileen Cowden 
Miyembro ti Consejo
feliciacowden.com
feliciacowden@gmail.com
(808) 652-43632024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Kategoria ti Pagbabalubalan
Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
76Miembro ti Consejo ti County ti Kauai
 Aloha, pakaidayawak la unay nga agtarigagay iti tugaw iti consejo ti county iti Kaua’i 
ken Ni’ihau, kas paset ti 7 a henerasion en a patuloy nga addaan iti prebilihio a maawag iti Kaua’i 
kas ‘āina hānau. Ti kuleana to mālama dagiti keiki ken kūpunatayo, kaiaulu (komunidad), ken dagiti 
natural ken kultural a pamataudan ken aramidtayo ti nangbael kaniak nga agtignay ken mangala 
iti resulta a mangprotekta iti masakbayan iti Kaua’i and Ni’ihau. Siak ni SHERRI CUMMINGS, maysa 
a kanaka wāhine, dumawdawat iti baro a pangrugian kas baro a bosesyo iti Consejo ti County. 
Al-alaek ti inspirasionko iti Kūpuna ken isu metlang ti mangidurduron kaniak a mangitag-ay iti 
dayaw dagiti kūpuna me nā kūpuna, dawatek ti konsiderasion ken botosyo. Ado pay ti maamuanyo 
panggep kaniak iti www.cummingsforcouncil.org ken allukoyek dakayo a makisarita kaniak iti 
pikakecummings1@gmail.com. I mai la me ka ha’a ha’a a me ke aloha, (Sipapakumbaba ken 
siaayat a naibaga) Sherri Cummings
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
CUMMINGS, Sherri
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Sherri  Cummings 
Miyembro ti Consejo
malamaanahola.sc@gmail.com
(808) 635-2085
 Aloha Kaua’i ken Ni’ihau, Siyak ni Billy DeCosta. Sipapakumbabaak a dumawat iti 
suportayo para iti pannakapilik manen. Natibker ti pannakairamot ko ditoy napintas nga isla 
tayo, addaanak iti asawa iti 27 a tawen ken nakapadakkelak iti 3 a lallaki nga annak. Adu met iti 
naaramid ko a pagsayaatan iti politika iti las-od ti 2 a termino. Ipannakkel ko ti pannakipasetko 
iti panagbaliw iti Ag property tax class Bill 2875 a mangsuporta kadagiti mannalon ken addaan 
iti rancho. Inaramid ken timmulongak iti Bill 2910 a mangipalubos iti probinsia tayo a mangsingir 
kadagiti turista iti pannaka-rescue da. Timmulongak iti panangaramid iti Bill 2913 tapno 
manayunan ti mabayadan ti golf para kadagiti saan a residente / residente iti world class a Wailua 
golf course tayo. Iti agdama ket makitintinnulongak ken Pangulo Rapozo para iti Bill 2919, maysa a 
Ag guest house bill, a mangnayun iti mabalin nga agnaed kadagiti pagnaedan kadagiti daga nga 
Ag/CPR. Iti agdama ket isagsaganak dagiti wagas tapno makissayan wenno maliklikan ti layos ken 
puor tapno masigurado ti panagbalin a responsable dagiti agtagikua iti daga.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
DECOSTA, Billy D.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Bill D. DeCosta 
Miyembro ti Consejo
billyndrena@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 639-8533
 Iti nabayag a trabahok iti komunidad ken komitmentko iti hustisia ken aglawlaw ket 
isu ti mangidurduron kaniak a kumandidato iti Consejo ti County. Naipasngay ken dimmakkelak 
iti Kapahi ken addaanak iti pamilya ken ado a gagayyem manipod kaubingko, a, kas kanyak, ket 
agrigrigat nga agbirok iti umanay a pagbiagan ken mangaywan iti pamiliada. Ikagumaak nga 
aramiden iti amin a kabaelak tapno ilabanko dagiti lokal a pamiliatayo iti panagaramid kadagiti 
linteg tapno makaibangontayo iti nasaysayaat a masakbayan ti Kaua’i, bayat iti panangirespeto 
ti naisangsangayan a pakasaritaan ti islatayo ken kulturatayo, kasta met ti panangappresyar 
iti rigat ti ekonomiatayo. Ammok a mabaelak ti agbalin a napigsa a mangitandudo ken timek 
para iti komunidadtayo ken mariknak nga ti kapadasak iti biyag, edukasion, kaadda ti analitikal 
a kabaelan, pannakitinnulong iti trabaho, ken nalaing a pannakisarita ket dakkel a benepisyo 
iti trabaho ken relasion iti Consejo ti County iti Kaua’i tapno makatulong a makaaramid iti 
mannakaawat ken patas a desisyon para iti pagsayaatan ti Kaua’i ken dagiti residentena. Available 
ti ad-adu pay iti votefern.com.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
HOLLAND, Fern Anuenue
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Fern A. Holland 
Miyembro ti Consejo
votefern.com
votefern@gmail.com
(808) 634-6242
 Siak ni Ross Kagawa ken ipagpannakkelko a maysaak nga asawa a lalaki iti 31 a 
tawen, addaan iti dua nga annak a babbai ken tallo nga appoko a babbai nga agnanaed iti Kauai. 
Retiradoak a maestro ken dati nga accountant, gapu iti Bachelors in Business Administration in 
Accounting ko manipud iti University of Hawaii iti Manoa ken Bachelors in Education manipud iti 
Chaminade University. Idi damok ti sumrek iti pulitika, nagbalin a gandatko nga maited kadagiti 
agtatrabaho a pampamila ti tugaw iti lamisaan iti inaldaw. Ita, iti uneg ti sangapulo a tawen a 
kapadasak iti babaen ti beddengko, agtalinaed a sititbker ti gandatko. Iti agdama a kasasaad ti 
ekonomia, a nangnangruna ngem iti kaanuman, masapul nga ipangpangruna ti Consejo iti Kauai 
County ti kinakurang ti imbentario ti nalaka a pagnaedan ken aramiden a nalaklaka iti dagup ti 
amin a pamilia tapno makapagnaed ditoy Kauai. Aniaman a salsaludsod wenno pakaseknan, 
maidawat a makiuman iti aniaman nga oras kas pribilehiok ti agserbi kadagiti umili ti Kauai.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KAGAWA, Ross
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Ross K. Kagawa 
Miyembro ti Consejo
kagawar004@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-16052024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral77Miembro ti Consejo ti County ti Kauai
 Agkadidatoak para iti Konsejo ti Kauai County gapo ta isakit ko ti Kauai ken iti 
masakbayan na. Addaanak iti kapadasan iti panagnegosyo ken accounting, walo a tawen a 
kapadasan kas Chair ti konsejo para iti budget, uppat kadagita a tawen ket kas Council Chair, ti 
komitmentko nga agserbi iti komunidad, ken dagiti adal ken prinsipyo a naimula kaniak manipud 
iti pamilyak, dagiti mannursuro, coach, ken komunidad. Iti panagdakkelko ditoy, mamatiak a 
mairepresentarak a naimbag dagiti umili ti Kauai ken Niihua gapo ta maysaak a regular, inaldaw a 
residente ti Kauai a sipipinget nga agtrabaho ken agayat a mangaramid iti kasayaatan a biag para 
kaniak ken ti pamilyak. Pakaidayawan toy numo ti botosyo iti umadani a panagbobotos.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KANESHIRO, Arryl J.
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Arryl J. Kaneshiro 
Miyembro ti Consejo
arrylkaneshiro@gmail.com
(808) 652-5216
 Maysa a dedikado a miembro ti komunidad ni Butch Keahiolalo nga agtartaray 
para iti Consejo ti County. Kas dati a maestro, addaan iti negosyo ken retirado a fire fighter iti 
Kau’i, maawatanna iti kinaimportansia ti agpuunan kadagiti agtutubo, agipaay iti oportunidad 
ti ekonomia para kadagiti residentetayo, ken mangsiguro iti kinatalged ken pagsayaatan 
ti komunidadtayo. Dagiti core values ni Butch ti mangtartarabay kadagiti desisionna, ket 
sigsiguraduen na a mairepresentar na ti pagsayaatan ti amin a miembro iti komunidadtayo. 
Nu mapili, ikarina nga agdengngeg kadagiti kasapulan ti komunidad, makitinnulong kadagiti 
mangidadaulo iti komunidad, ken ituloyna nga ikagumaan nga aramiden a nalaka a pagnaedan, 
pag-rang-ayan, ken pagpadakkelan ti pamilia iti Kaua’i para kadagiti residentetayo. Pagyamanan 
ni Butch ti pamiliana, gagayyemna, ken komunidad iti suportada.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KEAHIOLALO, W. Butch
LEGAL A NAGAN:
William Butch Keahiolalo 
Miyembro ti Consejo
butchkeahiolalo@gmail.com
(808) 635-0388
 Aloha kakou! Agdama nga agserserbiak kas Vise Chair ti Consejo, Chair ti Housing 
& Intergovernmental Relations Committee ken Bise Chair ti Finance & Economic Development 
Committee. Agserserbiak pay a maysa kadagiti pannakabagi ti Hawai`i iti National Association 
of Counties (NACo) Board. Agarup uppat a pulo a tawen ti kapadasak nga agtatrabaho iti 
Gobierno, Labour Unions, Non-Profits ken dagiti Organisasion ti Komunidad. Iti dayta a tiempo, 
napaneknekak a nagaget, mapagtalkan ken mannakaawatak. Impakitak pay ti dedikasionko 
iti serbisio publiko, ti padasko iti lehislatibo a patakaran, ti paglaingak iti panagbadyet, 
pannakaawatko kadagiti isyu ken ti panagkumitko a kanayon nga aramidek ti homework-ko, 
dumngeg a naimbag ken pannakitinnulong. Kangrunaanna, ay-ayatek unay ti Kaua`i ken Ni`ihau 
ken nakakumitak a kanayon a mangaramid iti naisangsangayan! Sipapakumbaba a dawatek ti 
maysa kadagiti pito a botosyo. Maidawat nga ibutostayo pay ti di kumurang nga uppat wenno lima 
kadakami a kandidato tapno mapapigsa ken dumakkel ti demokrasia ti representantetayo. Mahalo 
nui loa!!!
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
KUALII, KipuKai
LEGAL A NAGAN:
KipuKai L.P. Kualii 
Miyembro ti Consejo
kipukai.kualii@gmail.com
(808) 652-3684
 Awan ti Naisubmitir a Palawag
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
NELSON, Jacquelyn (Jakki)
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Jacquelyn N. Nelson 
Miyembro ti Consejo
nelson5599@twc.com
(808) 631-82252024 GIYA TI BOTANTE 
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral78Miembro ti Consejo ti County ti Kauai
 Dawatek ti panangpiliyo manen kaniak para iti Konseho iti County ti Kauai gapu ta 
mamati ak iti pigsa ti nasayaat a panagbaliw ken iti gobierno a mangitunda iti nasayaat para 
iti biag dagiti tattao. Aggapu ti komitmentko iti panangayat ko a masolbar dagiti problema 
a sangsanguen ti komunidad tayo. Iti panangsaksik kadagiti karit nga ananusan dagiti adu 
a tao ken pamilia, kayat ko nga idur-as dagiti pagannurutan maipapan iti panagmaymaysa, 
panagpapada, ken panagprogreso. Dagiti kapadasak iti serbisyo ti komunidad ken dedikasyon 
a makitinnulong ket isu ti mangted iti kabaelak a mangikonektar kadagiti panagsisina ken 
agtrabaho para kadagiti solusyon a pagnam-ayan iti isuamin. Saanak a maidurduron iti personal 
laeng a tarigagay, nu di ket iti naun-uneg a responsibilidad a makaipaay iti tulong para iti 
pagsayaatan ti pagilian tayo. Iti panagkandidatok para iti posision, panggep ko nga agibingay iti 
baro a kapanunotan, nalawag a komunikasyon, ken natibker a dedikasyon tapno agserbi para iti 
iinteres ti publiko.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
RAPOZO, Mel
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Melvin F. Rapozo 
Miyembro ti Consejo
www.melforcouncil.org
melrapozo@gmail.com
(808) 645-0243
 Bart J Thomas Bart J Thomas County iti Kauai Awanan partisan (808)635-8466 email - 
Bart@voteforbartKauai.com Website -voteforbartkauai.com Nakapokus iti aramid, adda iti kinataok 
ti mantra a “Napigpigsa ti boses dagiti aramid ngem kadagiti balikas.” Kabayatan iti pandemia ti 
COVID, nagserbiak a board member iti Kauai’s Salvation Army, a nagited iti kasapulan a suporta 
kadagiti awanan pagtaengan a komunidad tayo. Kas maysa a beterano ken aktibo a miyembro 
ti komunidad iti Kauai, pagragsakak ti panagited. Dagiti agduduma nga aktibidades ko tapno 
makaurnong iti pondo ket nakaala iti dakkel a suporta, a nagresulta iti dakkel a pagsayaatan iti 
Veterans Center complex, kasta met iti baro a solar roof ken pannakapasimpa iti Military Museum. 
Nagisponsorak iti progam kas iti Vacation for Warriors, a nangipalubos kadagiti nasugatan a 
beterano tapno makitada manen iti pamiliada iti natalna ng aglawlaw, nga awan ti aniaman a 
kadagiti panagbisita iti ospital. Kanayunan na, sinuportarak ti Children’s Dream Foundation, iti 
panangited kadagiti arapaap a bakasyon para kadagiti ubbing nga agsagsagaba iti kanser ken 
panangidiaya kadakuada ken ti pamiliada kadagiti tiempo ti ragsak ken panaginana.
NAGAN TI BALOTA:
THOMAS, Bart
LEGAL A NAGAN:
Bart J. Thomas 
Miyembro ti Consejo
Bart@voteforbartkauai.com
(808) 635-8466
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral79
Dagiti Enmienda ti Charter 2024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET INTED TI ESTADO TI HAWAII, 
DEPARTAMENTO TI ATTORNEY HENERAL
SALUDSOD #1: Pannakaikkat ti Espesipiko a Pagsasao Maipapan iti Autoridad 
ti Lehislatura a Mangireserba iti Panagasawa kadagiti Agassawa nga 
Agsupadi ti Kinataona
SALUDSOD
Mabaliwan kadi ti konstitusion ti estado tapno mawaswas ti turay ti lehislatura a 
mamagtalinaed iti panagasawa dagiti agassawa a saan nga agpada ti kinataona?
PANNAKAILAWLAWAG
Ikkaten ti naisingasing a enmienda ti espesipiko a pagsasao iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii 
a nangted iti turay iti Lehislatura a mangireserba iti panagasawa kadagiti agassawa nga 
agsupadi ti kinataona.
KAIPAPANAN TI “WEN” A BOTOS
Ikkaten ti "wen" a butos ti espesipiko a pagsasao iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii a nangted 
ti turay iti Lehislatura a mangireserba ti panagasawa kadagiti agassawa nga agsupadi 
ti kinataona.
KAIPAPANAN TI "SAAN" A BOTOS
Awan aramiden ti "saan" a butos iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii ken pagtalinaedenna ti 
espesipiko a pagsasao iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii a nangted ti turay iti Lehislatura a 
mangireserba ti panagasawa kadagiti agassawa nga agsupadi ti kinataona.
KAIPAPANAN TI BLANKO A BOTOS WENNO NALABSAN A BOTOS
Saan a mabilang ti “blangko” a botos a kas “wen” a botos wenno “saan” a botos iti saludsod.  
Imbes ketdi, mabilang laeng ti “blangko” a botos iti dagup a bilang dagiti nagbotos.  Kasta 
met, ti “nalabsan” a botos ket saan a mabilang a kas “wen” a botos wenno “saan” a botos iti 
saludsod.  Imbes ketdi, mabilang laeng ti “nalabsan” a botos iti dagup a bilang dagiti nagbotos.
Tapno maratipikaran ti naisingasing a enmienda iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii, masapul 
nga aprobaran daytoy babaen iti kaaduan kadagiti amin a butos a naibilang iti saludsod 
(k.p., dagiti laeng “wen” ken “saan” a botos). Mainayon pay, daytoy a kaaduan ket masapul 
a mangbukel iti di kumurang a limapulo a porsiento iti dagup a bilang dagiti nagbotos iti 
eleksion (k.p., “wen,” “saan,” “blangko,” ken “nalabsan” a butos).
Para iti naan-anay a teksto daitoy 
a naisingasing a pannakabalbaliw, 
mapan kayo iti elections.hawaii.gov  
wenno tawagan yo (808) 453-8683.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
80Dagiti Enmienda ti Charter 2024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET INTED TI ESTADO TI HAWAII, DEPARTAMENTO TI ATTORNEY GENERAL
SALUDSOD #2: Panagaramid iti Proseso ti Pammatalged ti 
Senado para kadagiti Hudisial a Panagdutok nga Ad-adda 
nga Agpapada
SALUDSOD
Maamendaran kadi iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii tapno agbalin ti proseso 
ti pannakadutok ken panangpasingked para kadagiti hues ti korte ti distrito 
a kapada iti proseso ti pannakadutok ken panangpasingked para kadagiti 
hues ti korte suprema ken dagiti intermediate a korte ti apela ken hues ti korte 
sirkito, nga agkasapulan iti:
(1) Ti Komision ti Hudisial a Seleksion a mangidatag iti Hepe ti Hustisia iti 
listaan a saan a nababbaba ngem uppat ken saan a nasursurok ngem innem a 
nominado para iti bakante;
(2) Maysa a nadutokan ti korte ti distrito nga automatiko a maibilang a 
nadutokan no mapaay ti Senado a mangilaksid iti pannakadutok iti uneg ti 
tallopulo nga aldaw manipud pannakaawat iti pakaammo ti pannakadutok;
(3) Ti Hepe ti Hustisia nga agaramid ti sabali a pannakadutok manipud iti 
listaan dagiti nominado iti korte ti distrito iti uneg ti sangapulo nga aldaw no 
ilaksid ti Senado iti maysa a pannakadutok; ken
(4) Ti pamay-an ti pannakadutok ken pammalubos a masurot agingga a 
maaramid ti balido a pannakadutok, wenno no mapaay daytoy, ti Komision 
ti Hudisial a Seleksion nga aramidenna ti pannakadutok manipud iti listaan 
dagiti nominado, nga awan ti pammalubos ti Senado?
PANNAKAILAWLAWAG
Ti agdama a proseso ti panangpasingked ti Senado para kadagiti hudisial a 
pannakadutok nga inaramid ti Gobernador iti Korte Suprema ti Hawaii, dagiti 
Intermediate a Korte ti Apela, ken dagiti Korte Sirkito ket naiduma manipud iti 
proseso ti panangpasingked ti Senado para kadagiti hudisial a pannakadutok 
nga inaramid ti Hepe ti Hustisia kadagiti Korte ti Distrito ti Estado.  Ti panggep 
daytoy a enmienda iti artikulo VI, seksion 3, iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii 
ket tapno aramiden ti proseso ti pannakadutok ken pammalubos ti Senado 
para kadagiti hues ti korte ti distrito a kapada ti proseso ti pannakadutok ken 
pammalubos ti Senado para kadagiti dadduma a hues ken hustisia.
Iti babaen ti agdama a proseso ti pammalubos ti Senado para kadagiti hues 
ti korte ti distrito, automatiko a maibilang a nailaksid ti maysa a nadutokan iti 
korte ti distrito no saan a pinalubosan ti Senado iti uneg ti tallopulo nga aldaw 
manipud pannakaawat iti pannakadutok.  Gapu ta ti Lehislatura ti Estado ti 
Hawaii ket maysa a part-time a lehislatura, masapul a mangangay ti Senado 
kadagiti espesial a sesion iti intero a tawen para iti kangrunaan a panggep a 
pananganamong kadagiti pannakadutok iti korte ti distrito.
Daytoy a enmienda ket mangipalubos kadagiti pannakadutok ti korte ti 
distrito nga automatiko a maibilang a napalubusan no mapaay ti Senado 
a mangilaksid iti pannakadutok iti uneg ti tallopulo nga aldaw.  Daytoy 
a panagbalbaliw ket mangaramid kadagiti pamay-an para iti proseso ti 
pammatalged ti Senado para kadagiti amin a hudisial a pannakadutok ti 
estado a kas agpapada, urayno ti pannakadutok ket inaramid ti Gobernador 
wenno ti Hepe ti Hustisia.KAIPAPANAN TI “WEN” A BOTOS
Ti "wen" a butos ket mangaramid iti proseso ti pannakadutok ken 
panangpasingked para kadagiti hues ti korte ti distrito a kapada ti proseso ti 
pannakadutok ken pammatalged para kadagiti hustisia ti korte suprema ken 
dagiti intermediate a korte ti apela ken dagiti hues ti korte sirkito.
KAIPAPANAN TI "SAAN" A BOTOS
Ti "saan" a butos ket awan ti aramidenna a panagbalbaliw iti Konstitusion 
ti Estado ti Hawaii ken pagtalinaedenna ti naiduma a proseso ti 
panangpasingked para kadagiti hues ti korte ti distrito a dinutokan ti Hepe 
ti Hustisia no idilig iti proseso para kadagiti hues ti korte suprema ken ti 
dagiti intermediate a korte ti apela ken dagiti hues ti korte sirkito a dinutokan 
ti Gobernador.
KAIPAPANAN TI BLANKO A BOTOS WENNO NALABSAN A 
BOTOS
Saan a mabilang ti “blangko” a botos a kas “wen” a botos wenno “saan” a 
botos iti saludsod.  Imbes ketdi, mabilang laeng ti “blangko” a botos iti dagup 
a bilang dagiti nagbotos.  Kasta met, ti “nalabsan” a botos ket saan a mabilang 
a kas “wen” a botos wenno “saan” a botos iti saludsod.  Imbes ketdi, mabilang 
laeng ti “nalabsan” a botos iti dagup a bilang dagiti nagbotos.
Tapno maratipikaran ti naisingasing a enmienda iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti 
Hawaii, masapul nga aprobaran daytoy babaen iti kaaduan kadagiti amin 
a butos a naibilang iti saludsod (k.p., dagiti laeng “wen” ken “saan” a botos). 
Mainayon pay, daytoy a kaaduan ket masapul a mangbukel iti di kumurang a 
limapulo a porsiento iti dagup a bilang dagiti nagbotos iti eleksion (k.p., “wen,” 
“saan,” “blangko,” ken “nalabsan” a butos).
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral812024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti County ti Hawai'i
DAGITOY A STATEMENT KET IMPAAY TI HAWAII COUNTY, OPISINA TI ABOGADO TI KORPORASION
SALUDSOD #1: Bakante ti Konseho ti County iti Opisina
SALUDSOD
Mabaliwan kadi ti Hawai‘i County Charter tapno maipaay nga aniaman 
a bakante iti Konseho ti County a mapasamak wenno adda kalpasan a 
mabutosan ti maysa a tao a mangtugaw iti dayta a tugaw para iti umay a 
termino ti Konseho ket punnuan ti mabutosan a sumuno para iti nabati a di 
pay nag-expire a termino?
PANNAKAILAWLAWAG
Ilawlawag daytoy a singasing a no mapasamak ti bakante iti Konseho ti 
County, ti kaaduan kadagiti nabati a kameng ti Konseho ket mangdutok 
iti kasuno babaen iti panangipasa ti resolusion para iti nabati a di pay 
nag-expire a termino.  Mainayon pay, mangnayon daytoy kadagiti baro a 
probision a mangikalikagum iti Konseho a mangpunno iti bakante iti maysa 
a tao a nabutosan a mangtugaw iti posision ngem saan pay a nagtugaw.  Kas 
pagarigan, no ti maysa a kameng ti konseho ket agikkat kalpasan ti eleksion 
ngem sakbay a mangrugi ti baro a termino, ken no ti maysa a kasuno ket 
mabutosan, kasapulan ti Konseho a dutukan ti napili a kasuno tapno agserbi 
iti nabati a paset ti saan a nag-expire a termino.  Ipaay pay ti naisingasing a 
pannakabalbaliw a ti nabati a di pay nag-expire a termino nga inserserbi ti 
maysa a kameng ti konseho a mangtugaw iti bakante ket saan a mayaplikar iti 
limitasion ti termino a naikeddeng iti Seksion 3-2 ti Hawai‘i County Charter.
SALUDSOD #2: Panangdutok ti Mayor Kadagiti  
Department Head
SALUDSOD
Maamendaran kadi ti Paglintegan ti Hawai‘i County tapno masapul a 
mangdutok ti Mayor kadagiti department head iti uneg ti 30 nga aldaw 
manipud panangrugi ti tunggal termino ti mayor ken iti uneg ti 60 nga aldaw 
para iti aniaman a bakante iti opisina a mapasamak bayat ti termino ti mayor?
PANNAKAILAWLAWAG
Ipasdek daytoy a singasing dagiti deadline para iti Mayor a mangdutok 
kadagiti department head apaman nga agtugaw iti posisionna ken no 
mapasamak dagiti bakante.SALUDSOD #3: Termino ti Panagtakem para iti Gastos ti 
Komision ti Gobierno
SALUDSOD
Maamendaran kadi ti Paglintegan ti Hawai‘i County tapno mapaadu ti 
kaatiddog ti termino para kadagiti kameng ti Cost of Government Commission 
manipud sangapulo ket maysa iti duapulo ket dua a bulan ken mapaatiddog 
ti deadline para iti Komision a mangisubmitir iti reportna manipud sangapulo 
ket maysa a bulan kalpasan ti pannakadutok agingga iti duapulo a bulan 
kalpasan ti pannakadutok?
PANNAKAILAWLAWAG
Mangpaadu iti kapaut ti termino daytoy a singasing para kadagiti kameng 
ti Cost of Government Commission manipud sangapulo ket maysa a bulan 
iti duapulo ket dua a bulan.  No maaprobaran, mangrugi ti termino dagiti 
kameng ti komision iti sangapulo ket walo a bulan kalpasan ti panangrugi 
ti termino ti mayor ken agpaut iti duapulo ket dua a bulan.  Mainayon pay, 
mangpalawa iti deadline ti Komision a mangisubmitir iti reportna ti enmienda 
manipud sangapulo ket maysa a bulan kalpasan ti pannakadutok iti duapulo a 
bulan kalpasan ti pannakadutok.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto daitoy a naisingasing 
a pannakabalbaliw, mapan kayo iti 
www.hawaiicounty.gov/charteramendments  
wenno tawagan yo (808) 961-8255.
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
82Dagiti Enmienda ti Charter 2024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti County ti Maui
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET INTED TI MAUI COUNTY, ABUGADO TI 
DEPARTAMENTO TI KORPORASION
SALUDSOD #1: Komision ti Sueldo
SALUDSOD
Maamendaran kadi ti Charter tapno kalikaguman ti Komision ti Sueldo a mangikeddeng 
kadagiti “sueldo” imbes a “kompensasion” para kadagiti nabutosan nga opisial ken nadutokan 
a direktor ken diputado a direktor tapno mamentanar ti panagtutunos iti Konstitusion ti 
Estado ti Hawaii ken maikkat dagiti piskal a lapped tapno mangpataud iti panagpapada 
babaen kadagiti benepisio a kas iti kas pannakaisubli ti gastos iti panagbiahe?
PANNAKAILAWLAWAG
Iti agdama, ibaga ti Artikulo 8, Kapitulo 17 ti Napabaro a Charter ti Maui County a ti Komision 
ti Sueldo para iti Maui County “ket ikeddengna ti kompensasion dagiti nabutosan nga 
opisial ken nadutokan a direktor ken diputado a direktor ti amin a departamento ti county.” 
(nainayon ti panangipaganetget).  Artikulo XVI, Seksion 3.5 iti Konstitusion ti Estado ti Hawaii 
ken dagiti mainaig a probision dagiti Charter para kadagiti dadduma a County, usaren ti 
termino a “sueldo” imbes a ti termino a “kompensasion.”  Ikalikagum daytoy a enmienda a 
lawlawagan a ti Komision ti Sueldo para iti Maui County ket ikeddengna laeng dagiti sueldo 
dagiti nabutosan nga opisial ken dagiti nadutokan a direktor ken diputado a direktor, ken 
saan a “kompensasion,” a mabalin nga ad-adda a nalawlawa a maipatarus a mangiraman 
kadagiti dadduma a benepisio a kas kadagiti gastos ti panagbiahe para kadagiti opisial wenno 
nadutokan nga agnanaed iti Lanai wenno Molokai ken masapul nga agbiahe a mapan iti Maui 
para kadagiti posisionda.  Dagiti dadduma pay a kakasta a benepisio ket imanehar ti Konseho 
wenno ti Mayor.
KAIPAPANAN TI “WEN” A BOTOS
Ti “wen” a botos kaipapananna a ti Komision ti Sueldo ti mangikeddeng kadagiti sueldo dagiti 
nabutosan nga opisial ken nadutokan a direktor ken diputado a direktor ti Maui County.  
Saan a karaman ditoy ti dadduma pay a potensial a benepisio ti kompensasion kas iti travel 
reimbursement para kadagiti opisial ken nadutokan nga agnanaed iti Lanai wenno Molokai 
ken masapul nga agbiahe a mapan iti Maui para kadagiti posisionda, nga, imanehar koma ti 
Konseho wenno ti Mayor.
KAIPAPANAN TI "SAAN" A BOTOS
Ti “saan” a butos kaipapananna nga agtultuloy nga ikeddeng ti Komision ti Sueldo ti 
“kompensasion” dagiti nabutosan nga opisial ken nadutokan a direktor ken diputado a 
direktor ti Maui County, a mabalin a pakairamanan dagiti benepisio iti labes dagiti sueldo.
KAIPAPANAN TI BLANKO A BOTOS WENNO NALABSAN A BOTOS
Saan a mabilang ti blangko a butos wenno nalabsan a butos iti panangikeddeng no ti kaaduan 
nga elektor iti saludsod ket nagbutos a pabor iti panangadaptar.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto 
daitoy a naisingasing a 
pannakabalbaliw, mapan kayo iti 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov  wenno 
tawagan yo (808)  270-7749.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral832024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti County ti Maui
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET INTED TI MAUI COUNTY, ABUGADO TI 
DEPARTAMENTO TI KORPORASION
SALUDSOD #2: Independent Staffing para Kadagiti Etika ti Lupon
SALUDSOD
Maamendaran kadi ti Charter, epektibo inton Hulio 1, 2025, tapno autorisaran ti Board of 
Ethics ti Maui County a mangtangdan kadagiti independiente nga empleado?
PANNAKAILAWLAWAG
Agdama nga awan ti bukodna nga agwaywayas, full-time nga empleado ti Lupon ti Etika ti 
Maui County.  Imbes ketdi, ti Lupon ti Etika ket intudigna ti maysa a Diputado nga Abogado ti 
Korporasion ken maysa a sekretario, nga agpada nga agtatrabaho iti babaen ti Departamento 
ti Abogado ti Korporasion ken agpada nga addaan kadagiti nadumaduma a dadduma pay 
nga annongen a naisina manipud iti trabahoda iti pannakabagi ti Lupon ti Etika.  Maysa 
pay, ited ti Charter ti sumagmamano kadagiti bileg ti Lupon ti Etika iti Lupon a mismo, imbes 
a kadagiti empleadona.  Palubusan daytoy a enmienda ti Lupon ti Etika a mangtangdan 
kadagiti bukodna nga agwaywayas nga empleado, ken mangted ti bileg kadagiti empleado 
a mangaramid kadagiti sumagmamano nga aramid, a mairaman ti panangipaay kadagiti 
impormal nga opinion ken balakad ti etika, panangrepaso kadagiti pannakaipablaak ti 
pinansia ken panagipila ti lobbyist, ken panangsurot kadagiti reklamo iti etika.
KAIPAPANAN TI “WEN” A BOTOS
Kayat a saoen ti “wen” a butos a kabaelan ti Lupon ti Etika a mangtangdan dagiti bukodna nga 
independiente nga empleado, a makabalin a mangaramid kadagiti espesipiko nga annongen 
a pakairamanan ti panangipaay kadagiti impormal nga opinion ken balakad maipapan iti 
etika, panangrepaso kadagiti pinansial a pannakaipablaak ken panagipila dagiti lobbyist, ken 
panangsurot kadagiti reklamo iti etika.
KAIPAPANAN TI "SAAN" A BOTOS
Kaipapanan ti “saan” a butos nga agtultuloy ti Lupon ti Etika a maaddaan kadagiti empleado 
manipud iti Departamento ti Abugado ti Korporasion a limitado kadagiti trabaho a mabalinda 
nga aramiden iti nagan ti Lupon ti Etika.
KAIPAPANAN TI BLANKO A BOTOS WENNO NALABSAN A BOTOS
Saan a mabilang ti blangko a butos wenno nalabsan a butos iti panangikeddeng no ti kaaduan 
nga elektor iti saludsod ket nagbutos a pabor iti panangadaptar.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto 
daitoy a naisingasing a 
pannakabalbaliw, mapan kayo iti 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov  wenno 
tawagan yo (808)  270-7749.
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
84Dagiti Enmienda ti Charter 2024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti County ti Maui
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET INTED TI MAUI COUNTY, ABUGADO TI 
DEPARTAMENTO TI KORPORASION
SALUDSOD #3: Dagiti Termino ti Lupon ken Komision
SALUDSOD
Maamendaran kadi ti Charter, epektibo inton Hulio 1, 2025, tapno sapasap a mapabassit 
ti peggad dagiti bakante kadagiti lupon ken komision, ken espesipiko maipapan kadagiti 
naidedikar a posision para kadagiti kameng nga agnanaed kadagiti saan unay nga adu 
ti populasionna a lugar, babaen ti panangipalubos iti pannakadutok dagiti kameng dagiti 
lupon ken komision para iti dua nga agsaruno a naan-anay a termino wenno sangapulo nga 
agsasaruno a tawen, ania man ti dakdakkel?
PANNAKAILAWLAWAG
Iti agdama, saan nga ipalubos ti Seksion 13-2(5) ti Charter ti Maui County dagiti kameng ti 
maysa a board wenno komision a madutokan iti maikadua a naan-anay a termino iti isu 
met laeng a lupon wenno komision iti uneg ti las-ud ti dua a tawen kalpasan a nag-expire 
ti terminoda.  Palubusan daytoy a pannakabaliw dagiti kameng ti maysa a lupon wenno 
komision a madutokan para iti dua nga agsaruno a naan-anay a termino, wenno agingga iti 
sangapulo a tawen, aniaman ti dakdakkel.
KAIPAPANAN TI “WEN” A BOTOS
Ti “wen” a butos kaipapananna a dagiti kameng ti lupon wenno komision ket mabalin a 
madutokan iti maikadua nga agsasaruno a naan-anay a termino iti isu met laeng a lupon 
wenno komision.
KAIPAPANAN TI "SAAN" A BOTOS
Ti “saan” a butos kaipapananna a dagiti kameng ti lupon wenno komision ket saan a mabalin 
a madutokan iti maikadua nga agsasaruno a naan-anay a termino iti isu met laeng a lupon 
wenno komision.
KAIPAPANAN TI BLANKO A BOTOS WENNO NALABSAN A BOTOS
Saan a mabilang ti blangko a butos wenno nalabsan a butos iti panangikeddeng no ti kaaduan 
nga elektor iti saludsod ket nagbutos a pabor iti panangadaptar.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto 
daitoy a naisingasing a 
pannakabalbaliw, mapan kayo iti 
www.mauicountyvotes.gov  wenno 
tawagan yo (808)  270-7749.
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral85Dagiti Enmienda ti Charter 2024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti County ti Kaua'i
DAGITOY A SASAO KET IMPAAY TI COUNTY TI KAUAI, OPISINA TI 
ABUGADO TI COUNTY
ENMIENDA 1: Mainaig kadagiti Imbestigasion ti Komision ti Pulisia.
SALUDSOD
Mangrugi kadi ti 90-day window ti Komision ti Pulisia para iti panangireport kadagiti naisurat 
a resulta iti panakaawat ti Komision iti report ti imbestigasion?
PANGGEP
Mangipaay daytoy a Enmienda ti Charter iti Komision ti Pulisia iti umdas a panawen a 
mangisayangkat kadagiti naan-anay nga imbestigasion no mangidatag dagiti kameng ti 
publiko kadagiti darum maibusor iti Departamento ti Pulisia wenno dagiti kamengna.
PAKASARITAAN
Agdama nga ibagbaga ti pagsasao ti Charter (Charter ti County ti Kaua'i, seksion 11.03.C.) a ti 
Komision ti Pulisia ket masapul nga, “Awaten, usigen, ken usigen dagiti darum nga indatag ti 
publiko maibusor iti kondukta ti departamento wenno ti siasinoman kadagiti kamengna ken 
mangisubmitir iti naisurat a report maipapan kadagiti natakuatanna iti hepe ti pulisia iti uneg 
ti siam a pulo nga aldaw.” Saan a nalawag daytoy a pagsasao gapu ta mabalin nga agpaut iti 
nasurok a 90 nga aldaw tapno makompleto ti dadduma nga imbestigasion. Ilawlawag daytoy 
a enmienda a ti Komision ket mangisubmitir iti naisurat a report dagiti natakuatanna iti Hepe 
ti Pulisya iti uneg ti 90 nga aldaw kalpasan a malpas ti imbestigasion. Isina daytoy a wagas 
ti imbestigasion ken ti panagireport, a mangipalubos ti imbestigasion nga agtultuloy agingga 
a maireport iti Komision dagiti resultana. Maaddaan ngarud ti Komision iti 90 nga aldaw a 
mangisagana ken mangipila iti reportna iti Hepe ti Pulisia.
ENMIENDA 2: Mainaig kadagiti Report ti Komision iti Panangkontrol ti Gastos.
SALUDSOD
Autorisado kadi ti Komision iti Panangkontrol ti Gastos a mangirekomendar iti naingato a 
gastos no manamnama a mangpataud dagitoy iti masanguanan a savings iti gastos wenno 
kinaepisiente?
PANGGEP
Ited daytoy a enmienda iti Komision iti Panangkontrol ti Gastos iti dakdakkel a flexibility iti 
panangirekomenda iti panangpasayaat iti kinaepisiente ti gobierno ken iti pananggun-od iti 
napaut a pannakakissay iti gastos ti panangipaay kadagiti serbisio ti gobierno.
PAKASARITAAN
Autorisado ti Komision iti Panangkontrol ti Gastos ti County a mangirekomendar kadagiti 
addang a mangikkat kadagiti programa ken serbisio ken mangkissay kadagiti gastos 
(Paglintegan ti Kaua’i County, Seksion 28.04.) Inkonklusion ti komision nga iti dadduma 
a kaso, mabalin nga agresulta iti napapaut a kinaepisiente wenno savings ti panagngato 
ti panaggasto. Ti panagbalbaliw iti pagsasao ti paglintegan ket mangipaay iti komision iti 
kanayonan a kinalukneng a kasapulanna tapno maragpatna ti misionna a mangkissay iti 
gastos ti gobierno bayat a mataginayon ti nainkalintegan a lebel dagiti serbisio publiko. 
Tandaanan: Masapul ti aniaman a rekomendasion ti komision iti agpada a pananganamong ti 
Konseho ti County ken Mayor sakbay ti pannakaipaulog.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto daitoy 
a naisingasing a pannakabalbaliw, 
mapan kayo iti kauai.gov/Charter  
wenno tawagan yo (808) 241-4881.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral86
2024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti County ti Kaua'i
DAGITOY A SASAO KET IMPAAY TI COUNTY TI KAUAI, OPISINA TI 
ABUGADO TI COUNTY
ENMIENDA 3: Mainaig iti Akses ti Publiko, Nakalukat nga Espasio ken Pondo 
ti Pannakapreserba ti Rekurso Naturales.
SALUDSOD
Available kadi ti agingga iti 5% iti Pondo ti Nakalukat nga Espasio ti County para iti 
pannakamantener dagiti daga, pannakatitulo ti sanikua, wenno pannakapasayaat a 
binayadan babaen iti Pondo?
PANGGEP
Kayat a siguradoen daytoy a Enmienda ti Paglintegan a dagiti sanikua a nasalakniban babaen 
ti Akses ti Publiko, Nakalukat nga Espasio ken Pondo ti Pannakapreserba ti Rekurso Naturales 
ket addaan kadagiti rekurso a mangipaay iti sumagmamano a suporta iti panagaywan.
PAKASARITAAN
Ti Akses iti Publiko ti County, Nakalukat nga Espasio ken Pondo ti Pannakapreserba ti 
Rekurso Naturales (Paglintegan ti Kaua'i County, Seksion 19.15.C.) ket kangrunaan a nairanta a 
manggun-od kadagiti daga para kadagiti panggep a naikeddeng iti titulona, a mangsigurado 
iti akses ti publiko, silulukat nga espasio ken panangpreserba kadagiti rekurso naturales. 
Nupay kasta, narigatan ti county a nangyurnos kadagiti boluntario a grupo wenno non-profit 
nga entidad a mangala iti napaut a pannakamantener ken panangaywan kadagiti sanikua 
ken pasdek. Nangnangruna a pudno daytoy iti pannakapreserba dagiti proyekto a sensitibo 
iti ekolohia ken kultura. Palubusan daytoy a wagas ti bassit a paset ti Pondo a mausar a 
mangsuporta iti panagaywan. Kas pagarigan, mabalin a mausar dayta a gumatang kadagiti 
tabla wenno suplay a pangmantener tapno matulongan dagiti boluntario nga agaywan 
kadagiti gastos a mabalin a dida kabaelan a patauden.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto daitoy 
a naisingasing a pannakabalbaliw, 
mapan kayo iti kauai.gov/Charter  
wenno tawagan yo (808) 241-4881.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral872024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti County ti Kaua'i 2024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti County ti Kaua'i
DAGITOY A SASAO KET IMPAAY TI COUNTY TI KAUAI, OPISINA TI 
ABUGADO TI COUNTY
ENMIENDA 4: Mainaig kadagiti Surety Bond
SALUDSOD
Maamendaran kadi ti Paglintegan tapno maipalubos ti pannakausar dagiti polisia ti seguro 
para iti sumagmamano wenno amin nga empleado a mangsalaknib iti County manipud iti 
pannakapukaw ti pinansia?
PANGGEP
Mangted daytoy a enmienda iti County iti flexibility iti panaggatang iti uray seguro wenno 
surety bonds tapno masakupan dagiti empleado ti county ken masalakniban ti county 
manipud iti pannakapukaw ti pinansia wenno pannakatakaw.
PAKASARITAAN
Iti agdama ti Paglintegan ti Kaua’i County, ibaga ti Seksion 19.17 , masapul a ma-bond ti 
sumagmamano nga opisial ken empleado. Iti napalabas, nangipaay dagiti surety bond 
iti pinansial a garantia maibusor iti pannakapukaw wenno pannakatakaw a nainaig iti 
panangipatungpal kadagiti opisial nga annongen ti maysa nga opisina. Nupay kasta, mabalin 
a saan a nalaka a magun-odan ita dagiti surety bond. Makaipaay ti seguro iti isu met laeng a 
proteksion para kadagiti amin nga empleado iti nababbaba a gastos.
Ti panangamendar iti paset ti seksion 19.17 ket mangted iti County iti flexibility a gumatang 
kadagiti polisia nga addaan iti kasayaatan a sakup, benepisio ken gastos dagitoy man ket 
surety bond, seguro, wenno agpada. Ti panggep daytoy a enmienda ti paglintegan ket tapno 
magun-od dagiti kasayaatan a pagalagadan para iti County, para kadagiti amin nga empleado 
ken tapno nasaysayaat a maimanehar dagiti sapasap a gastos.
ENMIENDA 5: Mainaig iti Ex-officio a Posision dagiti Agtutubo kadagiti Lupon 
ken Komision ti County.
SALUDSOD
Maamendaran kadi ti Paglintegan tapno maipasdek dagiti ex-officio a posision para kadagiti 
agtutubo kadagiti Lupon ken Komision a punnuan dagiti residente a junior wenno senior iti 
haiskul ti Kaua‘i?
PANGGEP
Ipalubos daytoy a enmienda iti maysa nga estudiante ti Kaua’i a makasursuro iti gobierno ken 
sibiko babaen ti pannakipasetna a kas ex-officio a kameng dagiti lupon ken komision.
PAKASARITAAN
Tapno mangipaay iti boses para kadagiti agtutubo kadagiti Lipon ken Komision kasta met ti 
gundaway iti edukasion para kadagiti estudiante, mangpataud daytoy a enmienda kadagiti 
position para kadagiti junior wenno senior iti haiskul kadagiti lupon ken komision babaen ti 
pananginayon iti baro a subsection O iti Seksion 23.02 iti Charter Kaua’i County.
Punnuan dagiti taga-Kaua’i dagiti ex-officio a posision ti estudiante. Mabalin a makipaset dagiti 
kasta a miembro kadagiti diskusion ti komision ngem saanda nga agbutos, saanda a maibilang 
iti korum, ken saanda a makipaset kadagiti sesion ti ehekutibo.Para iti naan-anay a teksto daitoy 
a naisingasing a pannakabalbaliw, 
mapan kayo iti kauai.gov/Charter  
wenno tawagan yo (808) 241-4881.2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
882024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti Siudad ti Honolulu
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET IMPAAY TI SIUDAD KEN HONOLULU 
COUNTY, ABUGADO TI DEPARTAMENTO TI KORPORASION
SALUDSOD #1
SALUDSOD
Rumbeng kadi a maamendaran ti Rebisado a Karta ti Siudad tapno maobligar ti Konseho ti 
Siudad a mangilasin iti pondo, a saan a maigiddan a maingato ti buis dagiti sanikua tapno 
maponduan dayta, kagudua ti maysa a porsiento ti natantia a mapastrek ti Siudad iti buis 
dagiti sanikua iti badyet ken pang-kapital a programa iti kada piskal a tawen, a maideposito iti 
Pondo iti Panangsango iti Klima, a ti panggepna ket panangsuporta kadagiti panagregget ken 
proyekto a nairanta a pangpalag-an kadagiti epekto ti panagbaliw ti klima, panangpatibker 
kadagiti imprastratura ken komunidad iti Siudad, ken mangitandudo kadagti makapasayaat 
a kaugalian?
Agdama a Situasion
Iti agdama, awan pay ti Pondo iti Panangsango iti Klima. Ti panagpondo a mangsuporta 
kadagiti panagregget ken proyekto a nairanta a pangpalag-an kadagiti epekto ti panagbaliw 
ti klima, panangpatibker kadagiti imprastratura ken komunidad iti Siudad, ken mangitandudo 
kadagti makapasayaat a kaugalian ket madama a reprepasuen ken tinawen a pomponduan 
ti Konseho ti Siudad ti Honolulu babaen ti Executive Operating Budget wenno ti Executive 
Capitol Budget and Program.
No Pumasa ti Singasing
Mabukel ti Pondo iti Panangsango iti Klima a mangpondo para iti panangprebentar, 
panangisubli ken panangisuro nga addang mainaig iti panagbaliw ti klima, ken ponduan 
ti kagudua ti maysa a porsiento ti natantia a tinawen a mapastrek ti Siudad iti buis 
dagiti sanikua. Ti sasao nga, “a saan a maigiddan a maingato ti buis dagiti sanikua tapno 
maponduan dayta,” nupay kasta, ket saan koma nga ipapan a malimitaran ti bileg ti Konseho ti 
Siudad ti Honolulu a mangingato iti buis dagiti sanikua iti isu met laeng a tawen a ponduanna 
ti Pondo iti Panangsango iti Klima.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto 
daitoy a naisingasing a 
pannakabalbaliw, mapan kayo iti 
honoluluelections.us .
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral892024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti Siudad ti Honolulu
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET IMPAAY TI SIUDAD KEN HONOLULU COUNTY, 
ABUGADO TI DEPARTAMENTO TI KORPORASION
SALUDSOD #2
SALUDSOD
Rumbeng kadi a maamendaran ti Rebisado a Karta ti Siudad tapno maipasdek ti Departmento 
ti Panangimanehar iti Emerhensia kas agsolsolo nga ahensia ti City Executive Branch babaen ti 
panangdesignar ti Department of Emergency Management iti naisina a kapitulo iti Karta ti Siudad 
nga umasping kadagiti kapitulo a naidesignar iti amin a dadduma pay a departamento ti Siudad; 
tapno ipasiguradona nga amin a posision iti Departmento ti Panangimanehar iti Emerhensia, 
agraman ti Direktor ken Katulongan a Direktor-na, ket adda iti sidong dagiti linteg ti serbisio sibil; 
ken iyespesipikona ti kababaan a kualipikasion para iti posision ti serbisio sibil iti Direktor ti 
Panangimanehar iti Emerhensia, nga addaan kanayonan a kababaan a kualipikasion maitunos kadagiti 
linteg ti serbisio sibil?
Agdama a Situasion
Ti Departamento ti Panangimanehar iti Emerhensia (“DEM”) ti Siudad (a dati a pagaammo kas ahensia 
ti depensa sibil) adda iti agdama iti sidong ti Opisina ti Manangimanmanehar a Direktor, ngem saan a 
naidesignar iti bukodna a kapitulo iti sidong ti Karta kas iti dadduma pay a departamento ti Siudad. Ti 
pang-umili a komision ti panangbalakad maipapan iti depensa sibil ket naisina nga ahensia a direkta 
met nga adda iti sidong ti Opisina ti Mangimanmanehar a Direktor.
Ti panangpili ken panagtultuloy dagiti posision a direktor ken katulongan a direktor ti DEM ket masapul 
a maitunos kadagiti paglintegan ti serbisio sibil, kayatna a sawen, maitunosda koma iti prinsipio ti 
pannakaikari. Ti Department of Human Resources, a mangipatpatungpal iti serbisio sibil a programa ti 
Siudad, kalikagumanna dagiti minimum a kualipikasion para iti posision a direktor ti DEM a maitunos 
iti prinsipio ti pannakaikari. Ikeddeng ti Karta dagiti trabaho ti direktor ti DEM ngem saan a dagiti 
minimum a kualipikasion para iti dayta a posision.
No Pumasa ti Singasing
Ti Executive Branch ket mabaliwan a maorganisar tapno ti designaran ti DEM ti bukodna a kapitulo 
iti sidong ti Karta, kas iti dadduma pay a departamento ti Siudad, ken ti pang-umili a komision ti 
panangbalakad ket adda iti sidong ti DEM. Dagitoy a panagbalbaliw saanda nga apektaran ti termino ti 
agdama a direktor ti DEM nga agserserbi inton Enero 1, 2025.
Dagiti amendasion ti kapada a Karta ket mapagbalin a linteg tapno masigurado a dagiti posision a 
direktor ken katulongan a direktor ti DEM ket agtultuloy a sumurot kadagiti paglintegan ti serbisio sibil. 
Espesipiko a maipuera kadagitoy nga amendasion dagiti posision a direktor ken katulongan a direktor ti 
DEM manipud autoridad ti komision iti sueldo, a mangdeterminar kadagiti sueldo dagiti panguluen ken 
katulongan a panguluen ti departamento, ken manipud kadagiti eksepsion manipud iti serbisio sibil nga 
agaplikar iti amin a dadduma pay a direktor ken katulongan a direktor dagiti agsolsolo a departamento.
Maamendaran met ti Karta tapno malawlawagan dagiti trabaho ti direktor ti DEM ken mangnayon iti 
dadduma pay a trabaho, a pakairamanan ti pannakayimplementar dagiti programa a panangsanay, 
panagehersisio, ken pang-publiko nga impormasion a mainaig iti panangimanehar iti emerhensia. 
Kamaudiananna, silalawag nga iraman ti Karta dagiti minimum a kualipikasion ti DHR para iti posision 
a direktor ti DEM, ken agkiddaw iti kanayonan a kualipikasion a di kumurang a lima a tawen a 
responsable a panangimanehar a kapadasan iti panangimanehar iti emerhensia, panagplano para 
iti didigra, wenno panangimanehar kadagiti serbisio iti kinatalged ti publiko, a ti di kumurang a dua 
a tawen dayta ket masapul a karaman ti panangiwanwan iti panangimanehar iti emerhensia wenno 
kadagiti aktibidad ti seguridad ti pagilian, wenno agpada.Para iti naan-anay a teksto 
daitoy a naisingasing a 
pannakabalbaliw, mapan kayo iti 
honoluluelections.us .
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral
902024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti Siudad ti Honolulu
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET IMPAAY TI SIUDAD KEN HONOLULU 
COUNTY, ABUGADO TI DEPARTAMENTO TI KORPORASION
SALUDSOD #3
SALUDSOD
Rumbeng kadi a maamendaran ti Rebisado a Karta ti Siudad tapno maipasdek ti Komision 
iti Kinatalged ti Taaw a mangrepaso ken agirekomenda iti sumagmamano nga aktibidad ti 
Departamento ti Kinatalged ti Taaw ken mangapointar iti Hepe ti Kinatalged ti Taaw?
Agdama a Situasion
Maitunos iti daytoy nga autoridad iti sidong ti Rebisado a Karta ti Siudad Seksion 4-202, 
kaipaspasdek ti mayor ti departamento ti kinatalged ti taaw (“OSD”) kas agsolsolo nga ahensia 
manipud kadagiti departamento a mangipapaay iti pang-emerhensia a serbisio nga ayanna. 
Ti OSD ket idauluan ti maysa a direktor ti kinatalged ti taaw nga inapointaran ken mabalin 
nga ikkaten ti mayor.
No Pumasa ti Singasing
Amendaran daytoy a resolusion ti Karta tapno mabukel ti lima-miembro a komision ti 
kinatalged ti taaw iti uneg ti OSD nga addaan iti autoridad, karaman iti dadduma pay a banag, 
a mangaramid iti rekomendasion iti tinawen a badyet ti OSD; mangrepaso kadagiti operasion 
ti OSD ken mangirekomenda iti pasayaaten; mangaramid iti tinawen nga ebaluasion iti maar-
aramidan ti hepe ti kinatalged ti taaw; dumngeg kadagiti reklamo dagiti umili maipapan iti 
OSD wenno kadagiti empleadona, ken agirekomenda iti hepe ti OSD no ania ti mailinteg; ken 
mangisumitir iti tinawen a report iti mayor ken konseho maipapan kadagiti aktibidad ti OSD.
Kas kanayonan, ti posision a titulo a “direktor” ti OSD ket suktan ti titulo a “hepe” ti OSD. Ti 
hepe ti OSD ket apointaran ti komision ti kinatalged ti taaw ken mabalin a maikkat kalpasan 
laeng a maawatna dagiti rason a maikkat ken maikkan iti gundaway a madengngeg iti sango 
ti komision ti kinatalged ti taaw. Ti direktor ti OSD nga inapointaran ti mayor ket agtultuloy iti 
posisionna agingga Disiembre 31, 2024, ket agtultuloy nga agserbi kas direktor ti OSD agingga 
a ti komision ti kinatalged ti taaw ket mangapointar iti baro a hepe.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto 
daitoy a naisingasing a 
pannakabalbaliw, mapan kayo iti 
honoluluelections.us .
2024 GIYA TI BOTANTE
 Eleksion HeneralEleksion Heneral91Dagiti Enmienda ti Charter 2024 Dagiti Singasing nga Enmienda ti Charter ti Siudad ti Honolulu
DAGITOY A PALAWAG KET IMPAAY TI SIUDAD KEN HONOLULU 
COUNTY, ABUGADO TI DEPARTAMENTO TI KORPORASION
SALUDSOD #4
SALUDSOD
Dagiti kadi probision ti Nabaliwan a Charter ti Siudad a mainaig kadagiti sueldo dagiti 
miembro ti Konseho ket mabaliwan tapno matun-oy dagiti tinawen a panangingato iti saan 
a dakdakkel ngem lima a porsiento, a mangikasapulan ti aniaman a panagbaliw a nainaig 
kadagiti panagbaliw iti tinawen a sueldo dagiti empleado ti siudad ken dagiti yunit ti 
pangsapasap a panangtawar ti Siudad, ken maikkat kadi ti autoridad ti Konseho nga ibotos ti 
bukodna a panangingato ti sueldo?
Agdama a Situasion
Maibatay iti Revised City Charter Section 3-122, ti komision ti sueldo (“Commission”) ket 
mangipasdek babaen ti resolusion dagiti sueldo para iti sumagmamano a posision ti 
munisipio, agraman dagidiay ti Konseho ti Siudad. Dagitoy a sueldo ket masapul a maitunos 
kadagiti prinsipio ti “umdas a kompensasion iti trabaho a naaramid” ken “panagtalinaed ti 
nainsiriban a relasion iti sueldo dagiti dadduma nga empleado ti Siudad.” Mabalin nga awaten 
wenno ilaksid ti Konseho ti Siudad ti aniaman a paset ti resolusion ti Komision, agraman ti 
aniaman a paset a mainaig kadagiti bukod a sueldo dagiti Miembro ti Konseho.
No Pumasa ti Singasing
Mabaliwan ti Karta tapno kasapulan nga mangipaulog ti Komision iti maysa a resolusion a 
mangipasdek kadagiti sueldo para kadagiti Miembro ti Konseho ken naisina a resolusion a 
mangipasdek kadagiti sueldo para kadagiti dadduma a posision.
Maipanggep kadagiti sueldo dagiti miembro ti Konseho, ti aniaman a masakbayan a 
pannakaingato ket malimitaran iti 5% iti tinawen ken nasken a "kaaduanna a katupag" iti 
promedio dagiti kaudian a tinawen a panagbalbaliw ti sueldo dagiti nadumaduma a kolektibo 
a panagtutunos a yunit ti siudad. Ti Konseho ti Siudad awanen ti autoridadna a mangawat 
wenno mangilaksid iti resolusion ti Komision a mainaig kadagiti bukodna a sueldo.
Para iti naan-anay a teksto 
daitoy a naisingasing a 
pannakabalbaliw, mapan kayo iti 
honoluluelections.us .
Kontaken Dakami
Para iti kanayunan nga impormasyon maipanggep iti panagrehistro tapno makabotos,
kontaken ti Dibisyon ti Eleksion iti County nga ayanmo.
County iti Hawaii (808) 961-8277
County iti Maui (808) 270-7749
County iti Kauai (808) 241-4800
Siudad ken County ti Honolulu (808) 768-3800
Para iti kanayunan nga impormasyon ti 
panagbotos, kontaken ti Opisina ti Eleksion.
Telepono: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Awan Bayadna: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Awan Bayadna TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Email: elections@hawaii.gov
Website: elections.hawaii.gov
GIYA TI GIYA TI 
BOTANTEBOTANTE20242024  Hawaii HawaiiHeneralHeneral

--- Text from PDF (https://digitalvoterguide.hawaii.gov/wp-content/themes/hawaii-elections/assets/pdf/general_digital_voter_guide_tl.pdf) ---
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan1
GABAY NG GABAY NG 
BOTANTEBOTANTE20242024  Hawaii HawaiiPangkalahatanPangkalahatan2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
202
ISANG MENSAHE MULA 
SA PUNONG OPISYAL NG 
HALALAN
03
ANO ANG GABAY NG 
BOTANTE?
03
MARKAHAN ANG IYONG 
KALENDARYO
03
PAGPAPAREHISTRO NG 
BOTANTE
04
PAGBOTO SA 
PAMAMAGITAN NG KOREO
04
PAGKUMPLETO NG IYONG 
BALOTANG PANGKOREO
04
PAGBABALIK NG IYONG 
BALOTANG PANGKOREO
04
PAGPOPROSESO NG IYONG 
BALOTA
04
SUBAYBAYAN ANG IYONG 
BALOTA
04
TINGNAN ANG MGA 
RESULTA NG HALALANGABAY NG GABAY NG 
BOTANTEBOTANTE20242024  Hawaii Hawaii
AlohaISANG MENSAHE MULA SA PUNONG OPISYAL NG HALALAN  
Sa ngalan ng Estado ng Hawaii, Opisina ng mga Halalan, nasasabik kaming ipresinta ang 
2024 Gabay ng Botante!! Ang mahalagang mapagkukunang ito ay kauna-unahan para sa 
mga botante sa Hawaii, na naisakatuparan sa pamamagitan ng pagpasa ng Batas 115 (Act 
115) sa panahon ng Sesyon ng Lehislatibo ng 2023. Salamat sa lahat ng nagtaguyod at nag-
ambag sa paglikha nito.
Bilang isang rehistradong botante, maaari mong asahan na matatanggap ang iyong balota sa 
koreo nang mga 18 araw bago ang Araw ng Halalan. Siguraduhing masuri kung ang iyong 
rehistrasyon ng botante ay napapanahon upang matiyak na ang iyong balota ay maihahatid 
nang maayos. Kung inilipat mo o binago mo ang iyong mailing address mula noong 
nakaraang halalan, dapat mong i-update ang iyong pagpaparehistro. Isang paalala rin na ang 
mga balota ay kailangang matanggap, hindi naka-postmark, bago ang 7:00 PM sa Araw ng 
Halalan.
Makatitiyak ka na nakatuon kami sa pagsasagawa ng ligtas, sigurado, at malinaw na halalan 
para sa mga residente ng Hawaii at nagpapasalamat kami sa iyo para sa pakikilahok sa 
demokratikong proseso.
Matapat na sumasaiyo,
Scott T. Nago
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan3
04
MGA SENTRO NG 
SERBISYO SA BOTANTE
05
NAA-ACCESS NA PAGBOTO
05
PAGGASTA SA KAMPANYA
05
KOMISYON SA ETIKA
06
MGA KARAPATAN MO SA 
PAGBOTO
06
TULONG SA WIKA
07
MGA DIBISYON NG MGA 
HALALAN NG COUNTY
07
MAKIPAG-UGNAYAN SA 
AMIN
08-78
MGA PAHAYAG NG 
KANDIDATO
79-91
MGA IMINUMUNGKAHING 
PAGBABAGO
ANO ANG GABAY NG BOTANTE?
Ang Gabay ng Botante ay inilathala ng Estado ng Hawaii, Opisina ng mga Halalan upang matiyak na mayroon 
kang impormasyon tungkol sa proseso ng mga halalan at mga paligsahan na iyong pagbobotohan. Kasama sa 
gabay ang impormasyon sa pagpaparehistro ng botante, mahahalagang petsa, at mga mapagkukunan tulad ng 
kung paano subaybayan ang iyong balota at naa-access na pagboto. Bukod pa rito, ang Opisina ng mga Halalan 
ay nagtitipon ng mga pahayag at mga larawang isinumite ng mga kandidatong tumatakbo para sa puwesto.
Paano tinitipon ang mga pahayag at mga larawan?
May oportunidad ang bawat kandidato na magbigay ng maikling pahayag at larawan kapag naghain sila 
na tumakbo sa puwesto. Dapat na mas mababa sa 150 salita ang pahayag, at binibigyan ang mga kandidato 
ng sumusunod na patnubay: Tratuhin ang iyong pahayag bilang isang resume; i-alok ang iyong pananaw at 
maging positibo; isipin kung ano ang gusto mong maisakatuparan kung mahalal; at iwasan ang pagpuna sa 
mga kalaban.
Inilalathala ang mga pahayag at larawan sa gabay na ibinigay ng mga kandidato. Malalathala din ang pangalan 
ng balota ng kandidato, legal na pangalan, kaakibat pampulitika, at impormasyon sa pakikipag-ugnayan. 
Kung hindi magbibigay ng pahayag o larawan ang kandidato, ang pariralang 'Walang Naisumiteng Pahayag' o 
'Walang Naisumiteng Larawan' ay lalabas sa tabi ng kanilang impormasyon ng kandidato.
MARKAHAN ANG IYONG KALENDARYO
2024 Pangunahing Halalan
• Oktubre 18: Hanapin ang iyong pakete ng balota sa Pangkalahatan Halalan na ihahatid sa koreo.
• Oktubre 22: Ang mga Sentro ng Serbisyo sa Botante ay bukas sa Araw ng Halalan para sa pagpaparehistro 
ng botante at naa-access na pagboto nang personal. Bisitahin ang elections.hawaii.gov para sa mga 
lokasyon, petsa, at oras.
• Oktubre 28: Huling araw para magparehistro para bumoto gamit ang papel na Aplikasyon sa 
Pagpaparehistro ng Botante para sa Pangkalahatang Halalan bago ang 4:30 PM.
• Oktubre 29: Huling araw para humiling ng balotang pagboto sa pamamagitan ng koreo bago ang 4:30 PM.
• Nobyembre 5: Pangkalahatang Halalan. Kailangang matanggap ang may botong mga balota hanggang 7:00 PM.
PAGPAPAREHISTRO 
NG BOTANTE
Sino ang karapat-dapat 
magparehistro para makaboto?
Ikaw ay dapat na mamamayan ng U.S., residente ng 
Hawaii, at hindi bababa sa 18 taong gulang. Kung 
ikaw ay hindi bababa sa 16 na taong gulang, maaari 
kang mag-preregister para bumoto at awtomatiko 
kang mairerehistro kapag ikaw ay naging 18 taong 
gulang na. 
Ano ang pinakamadaling paraan 
para magparehistro?
Online! Gamit ang iyong Hawaii Driver License o 
Hawaii State ID, magparehistro sa loob ng ilang 
minuto sa elections.hawaii.gov. Kung wala kang 
Hawaii ID, available ang napi-print na aplikasyon 
sa pamamagitan ng website o sa mga post office 
at library. 
Paano ko idedeklara ang aking 
kaakibat na partido?
Mapapansin mo na nang nagparehistro ka para 
bumoto, hindi ka tinanong tungkol sa iyong kaakibat 
na partido pampulitika. Hindi iyon pagkakamali. 
Hindi idinedeklara ng mga botante ng Hawaii 
ang kaakibat na partido pampulitika kapag 
nagpaparehistro para bumoto.Kailangan ko bang magparehistro 
para makaboto taun-taon?
Hindi, hindi mo kailangang magparehistro para 
makaboto bago ang bawat halalan. Subalit may 
pananagutan kang panatilihing napapanahon ang 
iyong rehistro. Kung ang iyong pangalan, address ng 
tirahan, o mailing address ay nagbabago sa pagitan 
ng mga halalan, kailangan mong i-update ang iyong 
rehistrasyon ng botante. Umaasa ang mga opisyal 
ng halalan sa iyong kasalukuyang rehistrasyon ng 
botante upang malaman kung anong balota ang 
itatalaga sa iyo at kung saan ito ipapadala. Ugaliing 
suriin ang iyong pagpaparehistro ng botante sa 
simula ng bawat taon ng halalan! Suriin at i-update 
ang iyong pagpaparehistro sa elections.hawaii.gov.
Saan ako boboto?
Ipadadala sa iyo ang iyong balota! Ang Hawaii ay 
estado na ang pagboto ay sa pamamagitan ng koreo, 
na nangangahulugan na bilang isang rehistradong 
botante, awtomatiko mong matatanggap ang iyong 
balota sa koreo tuwing halalan. Sa pagboto sa 
pamamagitan ng koreo, hindi magaganap sa isang 
araw lamang ang ating mga halalan, magsisimula 
talaga ang iyong window ng pagboto kapag ang 
iyong balota ay dumating na sa iyong mailbox. 
Mayroon ka ring iba pang mga opsyon na inilarawan 
sa gabay na ito. Halimbawa, maaari kang bumoto 
nang personal sa isang sentro ng serbisyo sa botante, 
na may mga device para sa naa-access na pagboto.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
4
PAGBOTO SA PAMAMAGITAN NG KOREO
Narito ang kailangan mong malaman tungkol sa pagboto sa pamamagitan ng koreo.
Ang iyong balotang pangkoreo ay:
• Awtomatikong ipinadadala sa iyong mailing address
• Darating sa ika-18 araw bago ang Araw ng Halalan
• Nangangailangan ng iyong lagda upang mabilang
• Kailangang matanggap hanggang 7:00 PM sa Araw ng Halalan
Paano kung hindi ko matanggap ang aking balota?
Kung hindi mo matanggap ang iyong balota, makipag-ugnayan sa iyong Dibisyon ng Mga Halalan ng County at 
bibigyan ka nila ng kapalit na balota.
Paano kung magkamali ako sa aking balota?
Kung magkamali ka, maiwala mo, o masira mo ang iyong balota, humiling ng kapalit na balota mula sa iyong 
Dibisyon ng Mga Halalan ng County.
Puwede ba akong magbago ng isip pagkatapos kung maibalik ang aking balota?
Hindi. Sa sandaling ibinalik mo na ang iyong binotohang balota at ito ay natanggap na ng Dibisyon ng mga 
Halalan ng County, ituturing na itong cast, at hindi ka na makakatanggap ng bagong balota.
Paano ako makakaboto kung wala ako sa panahon ng halalan?
Kung aalis ka sa panahon ng halalan, maaari kang humiling ng absentee ballot na ipadadala sa isang 
kahaliling address. Kumpletuhin lamang ang isang Aplikasyon ng Absentee Ballot at ilagay kung saan mo 
gustong ipadala ang iyong balota.
PAGKUMPLETO NG IYONG BALOTANG PANGKOREO
1. Bago bumoto, suriin ang parehong panig ng balota. Para bumoto, itiman ang mga kahon na iyong pinili gamit 
ang itim o asul na panulat.
2. Pagkatapos bumoto, ipasok ang iyong balota sa secrecy sleeve. Tapos, ilagay ang secrecy sleeve sa ibabalik 
na sobre.
3. Basahin ang pahayag ng pagpapatibay at lagdaan ang ibabalik na sobre. Kailangan mong lagdaan ang 
ibabalik na sobre para mabilang ang iyong boto.
PAGBABALIK NG IYONG BALOTANG PANGKOREO
Sa Pamamagitan ng Koreo:  Ilagay ang iyong binotohang balota sa koreo gamit ang may paunang 
address, may bayad na postage na ibabalik na sobre. Mag-ingat sa mga oras ng paghahatid ng USPS upang 
matiyak na matatanggap ito bago ang deadline.
Sa Pamamagitan ng Drop Box ng Balota: Ihulog ang iyong binotohang balota sa lokasyon ng drop 
box ng balota sa loob ng iyong county. Bisitahin ang elections.hawaii.gov para sa mga lokasyon, petsa, at oras.
Ang mga binotohang balota ay dapat matanggap ng iyong mga Dibisyon ng mga Halalan ng County hanggang 
7:00 PM sa Araw ng Halalan upang mabilang.
PAGPOPROSESO NG IYONG BALOTA
Kapag natanggap na ang iyong ibinalik na sobre, ii-scan ang barcode nito. Ang natatanging barcode ay 
nagpapahintulot sa mga opisyal na subaybayan ang pagbabalik ng iyong balota at pinipigilan ang sinuman na 
bumoto nang higit sa isang beses.
Ang lagda sa ibinalik na sobre ay inihahambing sa lagda sa iyong talaan ng botante. Kung hindi makumpirma 
ng mga opisyal ang pagkakatugma, aabisuhan ka na ayusin ang isyu sa loob ng limang araw ng negosyo 
pagkatapos ng halalan.
Kung matagumpay na naitugma ang iyong lagda, ligtas na dinadala ang iyong balota sa sentro sa pagbibilang. 
Sa sentro sa pagbibilang, ang iyong binotohang balota ay pinoproseso sa pamamagitan ng mga scanner ng 
pagbibilang ng boto.SUBAYBAYAN ANG 
IYONG BALOTA
Mag-sign up para sa mga alerto sa pagsubaybay 
sa balota sa pamamagitan ng text, email, o voice 
call sa elections.hawaii.gov. Ipinapaalam sa 
iyo ng serbisyo kung nasaan ang iyong balota 
at nagpapadala ng mahahalagang paalala 
kasama ang isang alerto kapag nalalapit na ang 
deadline ng pagbabalik ng balota.
TINGNAN ANG MGA 
RESULTA NG HALALAN
Pagkatapos ng 7:00 PM sa Araw ng Halalan, 
maaari mong simulang tingnan ang mga resulta 
ng halalan sa elections.hawaii.gov. Patuloy na ia-
update ang mga resulta hanggang sa mabilang 
ang lahat ng wastong balota na natanggap 
sa deadline.
Maaari mong asahan ang sumusunod 
na paglabas ng mga resulta:
• Inilalabas ang Ulat 1 pagkatapos isara ang 
mga sentro ng serbisyo sa botante sa Araw 
ng Halalan.
• Naka-iskedyul na ilabas ang Ulat 2 sa ika-
10:30 PM sa Araw ng Halalan.
• Inilalabas ang Pinal na Ulat sa Araw ng 
Halalan kapag ang lahat ng mga ibinalik na 
sobre ay nasuri na ng Dibisyon ng Halalan 
ng County at naproseso na sa sentro sa 
pagbibilang.
• Inilalabas ang Pinal na Ulat ng Halalan 
pagkatapos ng 5 araw ng negosyo na curing 
period ng lagda ng botante.
MGA SENTRO NG 
SERBISYO SA BOTANTE
Para sa parehong araw na pagpaparehistro at 
pagboto, at naa-access na pagboto.
Bisitahin ang elections.hawaii.gov para sa mga 
lokasyon, petsa, at oras.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan5
NAA-ACCESS NA PAGBOTO
Available ang mga opsyon sa naa-access na pagboto. Isaalang-alang kung aling paraan ng pagboto ang nakakatugon sa iyong mga pangangailangan.
1. Bumoto sa bahay gamit ang papel na balota.
• Awtomatikong paghahatid sa koreo.  Direktang dumarating ang iyong pakete ng balota sa iyong mailing address.
• Pinapayagan kang makahingi ng tulong.  Kung ang pagsusuri, pagmamarka, at pagbabalik ng iyong balota ay mahirap, maaari kang humingi ng 
tulong. Pinahihintulutan kang hilingin sa isang pinagkakatiwalaan mong tao na tulungan kang basahin ang iyong balota, markahan ang iyong mga napili, 
at maging saksi mo kung hindi mo mapipirmahan nang nag-iisa ang ibabalik na sobre. Ipinagbabawal na tumulong ang iyong employer o ang iyong 
ahente ng unyon.
• Ibinibigay ang prepaid na ibabalik na sobre.  Ibalik ang iyong balota sa pamamagitan ng koreo sa ibinigay na ibabalik na sobre. Hindi 
kailangan ang karagdagang postage.
Para bumoto sa bahay gamit ang papel na balota. Sa pamamagitan ng pagpaparehistro para bumoto, awtomatiko kang makakatanggap ng isang 
balotang pangkoreo tuwing halalan. Hindi kailangan ang hiwalay na kahilingan.
2. Bumoto sa tahanan gamit ang naa-access na elektronikong balota. Kung mayroon kang kapansanan sa pag-print at hindi mo mabasa ang 
karaniwang pag-print, karapat-dapat kang bumoto gamit ang isang elektronikong balota.
• Maginhawang paghahatid gamit ang e-mail. Ligtas na ipinadala ang iyong elektronikong balota sa iyong email address. Ang balota mismo ay 
hindi konektado sa Internet at ipinapadala lamang sa elektronikong paraan.
• Akma sa mga personal assistive device. Gamitin ang iyong mga assistive device sa bahay upang suriin at markahan ang iyong balota nang mag-
isa. Akma ang elektronikong balota sa lahat ng pangunahing browser, laki ng device (kabilang ang mga smartphone at tablet), at mga personal assistive 
device.
Para bumoto gamit ang naa-access na elektronikong balota:  Kapag nagparehistro ka para bumoto, lagyan ng tsek ang opsyon na humiling ng 
elektronikong balota at pagtibayin na natutugunan mo ang mga kwalipikasyon. Kakailanganin mong ibigay ang iyong email address.
3. Bumoto sa isang sentro ng serbisyo sa botante gamit ang isang device sa pagmamarka ng balota.  Kung hindi mo magawang 
markahan ng kamay ang isang balota gamit ang isang panulat, bisitahin ang isang sentro ng serbisyo sa botante upang magamit ang device sa pagmamarka 
ng naa-access na balota, ang V erity Touch Writer.
• Pinahusay na mga feature sa pagiging naa-access. Binibigyang-daan ka ng V erity Touch Writer na malayang piliin ang iyong mga seleksyon 
sa balota sa pamamagitan ng isang elektronikong interface. Kasama sa mga feature ng device ang malaking touchscreen interface, rotary wheel console 
para lumipat sa balota, pagiging akma sa mga tactile switch at “sip and puff” na device, naiaakmang laki ng text at screen contrast para sa mas mataas na 
visibility, at kapabilidad gamit ang headphone para sa audio access.
• Available sa buong estado ang mga naa-access na machine.  Mayroong V erity Touch Writer ang lahat ng mga sentro ng serbisyo sa botante. 
Bukas ang mga sentro ng serbisyo sa botante nang hanggang 10 araw ng negosyo bago ang Araw ng Halalan, na nagbibigay sa iyo ng sapat na oras 
upang bisitahin ang isang lokasyon upang bumoto.
• Hindi elektronikong pagboto. Ang V erity Touch Writer ay simpleng elektronikong device para tulungan ka sa pagsusuri at pagmamarka ng iyong 
balota. Pagkatapos bumoto, mag-iimprinta ka ng balotang papel na ii-scan para sa pagbibilang. Ang naka-imprintang balota ay ang parehong ginagamit 
ng lahat ng botante maging sa sentro ng serbisyo sa botante o sa pamamagitan ng koreo.
Para bumoto gamit ang device na pangmarka ng balota: Bisitahin ang isang sentro ng serbisyo sa botante sa iyong county. Ang 
pagpaparehistro bago ang iyong pagbisita ay maaaring magbawas sa iyong oras ng paghihintay.
PAGGASTA SA KAMPANYA
Upang tingnan ang mga kontribusyon at paggasta ng kandidato, bisitahin ang website ng Komisyon ng Paggasta sa Kampanya (Campaign Spending 
Commission) sa csc.hawaii.gov/CFSPublic/menu/.
KOMISYON SA ETIKA
Upang tingnan ang mga pahayag sa pananalapi ng kandidato para sa mga kandidato ng estado, bisitahin ang website ng Komisyon sa Etika ng Estado sa 
hawaiiethics.my.site.com/public/s/.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
6MGA KARAPATAN MO SA PAGBOTO
Karapatan mo sa pagiging lihim ng iyong boto
• Ang iyong boto ay walang pagkakakilanlan at hindi nakatali sa iyo o sa iyong rehistrasyon ng botante. 
Walang itinatagong tala kung paano ka bumoto sa isang halalan.
• Hindi hinihiling sa mga botante sa Hawaii na magdeklara ng kagustuhan sa partidong pampulitika kapag 
nagparehistro para bumoto. Hindi nagtatanong ang mga opisina sa halalan sa Hawaii, ni nagtatago ng 
rekord ng iyong kinaaanibang partido.
Mga karapatan mo sa mga serbisyo sa Araw ng Halalan
• Kung hindi ka pa nakarehistro para bumoto sa Araw ng Halalan, maaari ka pa ring magparehistro sa 
isang sentro ng serbisyo sa botante sa iyong county. Pahihintulutan kang bumoto nang personal para sa 
halalan na iyon at makakatanggap ng isang balotang pangkoreo para sa mga halalan sa hinaharap.
• Kung nasa linya ka, manatili sa linya. Ang pagboto ay magsasara sa 7:00 PM sa Araw ng Halalan, 
gayunpaman, kung nasa linya ka para bumoto sa isang sentro ng serbisyo sa botante o upang ihulog ang 
iyong balota sa koreo sa isang drop box ng balota, papayagan kang gawin iyon. Minamarkahan ng mga 
opisyal ang dulo ng linya, at hindi ka papayagang muling sumali kung aalis ka.
• Maaari kang humiling ng pansamantalang balota kung hindi mo makumpirma ang iyong rehistrasyon 
ng botante. Pahihintulutan ka ng isang pansamantalang balota na bumoto ng isang balota na maaaring o 
hindi maaaring mabilang pagkatapos na kumpirmahin ng Dibisyon ng mga Halalan ng County ang iyong 
impormasyon sa rehistrasyon ng botante.
Karapatan mong magparehistro upang makaboto
• Kung nakakaranas ka ng kawalan ng tirahan o kung hindi man ay walang tradisyonal na tirahan, karapat-
dapat ka pa ring magparehistro para bumoto. Kapag nagparehistro ka, magbigay ng paglalarawan kung 
saan ka nakatira – tulad ng mga tawiran ng kalye at palatandaan, upang matulungan ang mga opisyal 
ng halalan na matukoy ang iyong distrito ng pagboto. Maaaring mag-alok ang mga opisyal ng halalan 
ng gabay sa mga opsyon sa pagboto kabilang ang personal na pagboto sa isang sentro ng serbisyo sa 
botante.
• Pinapanatili mo ang karapatang magparehistro at bumoto kung ikaw ay isang pre-trial detainee, nasa 
probasyon, o naka-parole pagkatapos ng pagkakakulong. Kung nahatulan ka ng isang mabigat na 
kasalanan, hindi ka pinahihintulutang bumoto sa panahon ng iyong pagkabilanggo, gayunpaman, 
ibinabalik ang mga karapatan mo sa pagboto kung ikaw ay nasa probasyon o parolado.
Karapatan mong bumoto habang wala sa Hawaii
• Kung pansamantala kang wala sa iyong paninirahan sa Hawaii, maaari kang humiling ng isang absentee 
ballot na ipadala sa koreo sa isang kahaliling address sa pamamagitan ng pagsusumite ng Aplikasyon ng 
Absentee Ballot.
• Kung ikaw ay aktibong militar, asawa o umaasa sa isang aktibong militar o isang mamamayan ng U.S. na 
naninirahan sa ibang bansa, karapat-dapat kang bumoto sa mga halalan sa Hawaii. Sa pamamagitan ng 
pagkumpleto ng Federal Post Card Application, ang iyong balota ay ihahatid sa iyo sa ibang bansa.
Karapatan mo sa tulong sa wika
• Ang mga materyales sa pagboto ay makukuha sa Chinese, Olelo Hawaii, Ilocano, at Tagalog, at ang 
karagdagang tulong sa wika ay makukuha sa pamamagitan ng pakikipag-ugnayan sa Opisina ng mga 
Halalan.
Karapatan mo sa naa-access na pagboto at tulong
• Kung kailangan mo ng tulong sa pamamagitan ng proseso ng halalan, kabilang ang pagpaparehistro 
para bumoto, o pagsusuri, pagmamarka, at pagbabalik ng iyong balota, pinapayagan kang tumanggap ng 
tulong. Mahalagang tandaan na upang maprotektahan ka laban sa pananakot sa botante, ipinagbabawal 
kang tumanggap ng tulong mula sa isang kandidato sa balota, o sa iyong employer o ahente ng unyon.
• Ang mga opsyon sa naa-access na pagboto ay magagamit upang bumoto nang pribado at 
independiyente. Maaaring humiling ang mga botanteng may kapansanan ng isang naa-access na 
elektronikong balota o bumisita sa isang sentro ng serbisyo sa botante upang gumamit ng equipment sa 
naa-access na pagboto upang suriin at markahan ang kanilang balota.TULONG SA WIKA
Cast your
vote in
comfort. 
Your ballot comes to you.Mark your
calendar.
Oct 18 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your General Election ballot     
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Oct 22 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation.
Oct 28 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the General Election.
Nov 5 | General Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Jul 23 | Mail Ballot Packet
 Look for your Primary Election ballot      
packet to be delivered in the mail.
Jul 29 | Voter Service Center
 Voter Service Centers are open through 
Election Day for voter registration and 
accessible in-person voting. Visit 
elections.hawaii.gov for locations and   
hours of operation. 
Jul 31 | Voter Registration
 Final day for first-time voters to submit a 
paper Voter Registration Application for      
the Primary Election.
Aug 10 | Primary Election
 Voted ballots must be received by 7:00 pm.Language assistance
Contact us如需翻譯後的選舉材料或語言協助，請聯絡選舉辦公室。
For information about registering to vote, 
contact your County Elections Division.
County of Hawaii (808) 961-8277
County of Maui (808) 270-7749
County of Kauai (808) 241-4800
City & County of Honolulu (808) 768-3800
For additional voting information, contact the 
Ofﬁce of Elections.
Phone: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Toll Free: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Toll Free TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Email: elections@hawaii.gov
Website: elections.hawaii.gov2024 Primary Election 
2024 General ElectionNeed to vote absentee? 
If you will be away from home during the 
elections, you can request your ballot be sent 
to an alternate address. Complete an Absentee 
Ballot Application and submit it to your County 
Elections Division no later than 7 days before 
the election. Applications are available at 
elections.hawaii.gov.
Prefer to vote in person? 
Voter Service Centers offer in-person accessible 
voting and voter registration, and are open 10 
business days before and on Election Day. For 
locations and hours, go to elections.hawaii.gov.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan7Mga Dibisyon ng mga Halalan ng 
County
County ng Hawaii
25 Aupuni Street
Room 1502
Hilo, Hawaii 96720
(808) 961-8277
hiloelec@hawaiicounty.gov
County ng Maui
200 South High Street
Wailuku, Hawaii 96793
(808) 270-7749
county.clerk@mauicounty.us
County ng Kauai
4386 Rice Street
Room 101
Lihue, Hawaii 96766
(808) 241-4800
elections@kauai.gov
Lungsod at County ng Honolulu
530 South King Street
Room 100
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
(808) 768-3800
elections@honolulu.gov
Makipag-ugnayan sa Amin
Opisina ng mga Halalan
802 Lehua Avenue
Pearl City, Hawaii 96782
(808) 453-VOTE (8683)
elections@hawaii.gov
Walang Bayad: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Walang Bayad na TTY: 1-800-345-5915Pagtatatuwa:  Ibinigay ng mga kandidato 
ang mga pahayag sa mga sumusunod na 
pahina at hindi nasuri para sa katumpakan. 
Ang mga pananaw at opinyon na 
ipinahayag ng mga kandidato ay sa kanila 
at hindi kinakailangang kumakatawan sa 
mga pananaw at opinyon ng Opisina ng 
mga Halalan.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan8Pangulo at Bise Pangulo - Partido para sa Sosyalismo at Paglaya (SL)
 Si Karina Garcia ay isang Chicana na tagaorganisa at edukador na lumalaban para sa 
mas magandang hinaharap mula pa noong siya ay 17 . Pagkatapos tumanggap ng buong iskolarsip sa 
Columbia, si Karina ay nagturo bilang guro ng matematika sa mataas na paaralan. Siya ay tumulong na 
mamuno sa mga kampanya para sa mga karapatan sa aborsiyon, mga karapatan ng mga domestikong 
manggagawa, buong mga karapatan para sa mga imigrante, at pangkansela ng utang ng estudyante. 
Ang kampanyang ito ay nananawagan para sa isang lubos na bagong ekonomiya na naglilingkod 
sa uring manggagawa, hindi sa mga bilyonaryo. Ang isang uring manggagawa na pamahalaan ay 
makakatugon sa mga pangangailangan ng mga tao –tulad ng libreng pangangalagang pangkalusugan, 
libreng edukasyon sa lahat ng antas, libreng pag-aalaga ng bata, disenteng bahay, at mga karapatan sa 
mga trabaho sa unyon na ayon sa konstitusyon. Si Claudia at Karina ay tumatakbong kasama ng Partido 
para sa Sosyalismo at Kalayaan (PSL), na lumalaban para sa mga pangunahing pangangailangan ng 
mahihirap at mga nagtatrabahong tao at para sa isang bagong lipunan – sosyalismo. Ang kampanyang 
ito ay tungkol sa higit sa isang halalan, ito’y tungkol sa pagbuo ng isang kilusang pangmasa na malaya 
mula sa dalawang partidong maka-korporasyon.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Karina  Garcia 
Partido ukol sa Sosyalismo at 
Pagpapalaya
Bise Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ang isang pinagsamang pahayag ay isinumite para sa mga kandidato para sa Presidente 
at Bise Presidente.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Lauren M. Onak 
Partido sa Pagkakaisa
Bise Presidente
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Si Mike ter Maat ay may isang matagumpay na karera sa ekonomiya na binigyang-diin ng 
kanyang trabaho sa Opisina ng Pamamahala ng Badyet sa White House at pagtuturo sa unibersidad. 
Habang nasa Washington DC, siya ay nagtaguyod para sa mas malayang mga pamilihan ng serbisyo 
sa pananalapi. Si Mike ter Maat ay naglingkod bilang isang opisyal ng pulisya ng County ng Broward 
para sa 11.5 na taon. Nakita niya sa sariling karanasan ang pangangailangan ng mahahalagang reporma 
sa pagpapatupad ng batas, kasama sa mga ito, ang pag-uugnay ng bayad sa pagganap at pagpapalit 
sa limitadong imyunidad ng personal na liabilidad na seguro. Ang patakarang panlabas ni Ter Maat ay 
nagbibigay-diin sa etika at hindi pakikihalo sa pamamagitan ng pag-iwas sa tulong sa ibang bansa at 
paglahok ng militar habang ginagamit ang kalakalan upang himukin at patatagin ang mga relasyon. 
Si Ter Maat ay nagmumungkahi ng mas kaunting mga hadlang sa ayon sa batas na imigrasyon at mas 
mataas na mga kakayahan para sa mas mabilis na pagsusuri. Nagtataguyod si Mike ter Maat para sa 
paghihiwalay ng awtoridad upang limitahan ang kapangyarihan ng pamahalaan at pagsunod sa ating 
Batas sa mga Karapatan.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Michael A. ter Maat 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Bise Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Isang karangalan na manindigang kasama si President Donald J. Trump habang 
nagtatrabaho tayo upang ibalik ang dakilang bansang ito. Sa kabila ng walang-tigil na atake, ang 
dedikasyon ni Presidente Trump sa mga mamamayang Amerikano ay hindi natitinag. Hindi siya 
pumasok sa pulitika para sa kanyang sarili—ginawa niya ito dahil kailangan siya ng Amerika. Inuuna 
ni Presidente Trump ang Amerika, lumalaban para sa mga manggagawa, pamilya, at komunidad. Sa 
ilalim ng kanyang pamumuno, nakita natin ang pinakamalakas na ekonomiya sa kasaysayan, mga 
ligtas na hangganan, at muling naitatag na dangal ng Amerika. Ang establisimyento ng Washington ay 
sumasalungat sa kanya dahil siya ay nagtatrabaho para sa inyo, hindi para sa kanila. Ang halalang ito 
ay napakahalaga. Sa ilalim ni Joe Biden, nakita natin ang bigong ekonomiya, pandaigdig na kawalan 
ng katatagan, at tumataas na krimen. Gagawin lang ni Kamala Harris na mas malala ang mga bagay. 
Pero kay Presidente Trump, makakabalik tayo sa lakas at kasaganaan na minsan ay tinamasa natin. 
Ikinararangal kong manindigang kasama ni Presidente Trump at hinihingi ang inyong boto. Muli natin 
siyang ihalal at ipagpatuloy ang pagbabalik ng kadakilaan ng Amerika. Salamat sa inyo, at pagpalain 
nawa ng Diyos ang Amerika.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
James David Vance 
Republika Partido
Bise Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com Si Claudia De la Cruz ay isang ina, edukador, pastora, at buong-buhay na tagaorganisa sa 
komunidad na ang trabaho ay nakalaan sa hustisya para sa nagtatrabahong uri. Sinasabi namin na 
“Tapusin ang Kapitalismo Bago Tayo Tapusin Nito” . Ang mga lokal ay dumaranas ng nakakadurog na 
mga pabigat na gastos sa bahay, groseri, at utang. Hinahayaan ng sistemang ito ang iilang bilyonaryo 
na patakbuhin ang ekonomiya, maglunsad ng mga digmaan, at sirain ang planeta. Ang Wall Street at 
mga pangkorporasyong pulitiko ay gumagamit ng militar upang kunin, wasakin, at dumihan ang lupa 
mula sa Red Hill hanggang Gaza. Mula sa kapabayaan ng pamahalaan sa Lahaina hanggang sa mga 
pang-aagaw ng lupa sa buong Hawai’i, mas mahalaga sa mga kapitalista ang pagtatayo ng mga resort 
kaysa muling pagtatayo ng mga komunidad. Sinusuportahan namin ang sariling determinasyon para 
sa bansang Hawaii at mga buong karapatan para sa lahat ng imigrante. Sinasabi namin na itigil ang 
digmaan sa Itim na Amerika, tapusin ang pagpatay ng lahi ng mga Palestino, at tapusin ang tulong 
ng US sa Israel. Ang gusto namin ay kapayapaan, hindi ang walang katapusang digmaan. Magtayo ng 
kilusan ng mga tao para sa hustisya, nang magkakasama!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Partido ukol sa Sosyalismo at 
Pagpapalaya
Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Si Bise Presidente Harris ay lumalaban para sa isang Bagong Paraan ng Pagsulong na 
nagpoprotekta sa ating mga pundamental na kalayaan kabilang ang karapatan ng isang babae na 
pumili, pinalalakas ang ating demokrasya, at tinitiyak na ang bawat tao ay may oportunidad upang hindi 
lamang makaraos, kundi umunlad. Bilang isang tagausig, Pangkalahatang Abogado, Senador, at ngayon 
ay Bise Presidente ng Estados Unidos, si Kamala Harris ay laging naninindigan para sa mga tao laban 
sa mga maninila, manloloko, at makapangyarihang interes. Pinalaki ng isang nagtatrabahong ina sa 
isang gitnang-uring sambahayan, siya ay naniniwala na kapag ang gitnang uri ay malakas, ang Amerika 
ay malakas at bilang Presidente, gagawin niyang pangunahing prayoridad na ibaba ang mga halaga 
ng bilihin at itaas ang seguridad na pangkabuhayan. Siya ay nangangakong maging isang presidente 
para sa lahat ng Amerikano, isang presidente na pinagkakaisa tayo para sa ating mga pinakamataas na 
mithiin, at isang presidente na laging lumalaban para sa mga Amerikano. Mula sa hukuman hanggang 
sa White House, iyon ang kanyang trabaho sa buhay.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kamala D. Harris 
Partido Demokratiko
Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Pagkatapos maglakbay sa lahat ng 50 estado, nakita ko kung paano ang implasyon at 
sobrang pag-abot ng pamahalaan ay pumipigil sa mga tao. Sa pagbawas ng paggasta at pagbalanse ng 
badyet, mababawasan natin ang gastos sa pamumuhay at mapapalakas ang ekonomiya para sa lahat. 
Tatapusin ko ang mga digmaan, pauuwiin ang ating mga sundalo, at pawawalang-bisa ang Batas Jones 
upang ibaba ang mga gastos sa shipping, bibigyan ang mga mamamayan ng Hawaii ng daan sa mas 
aboit-kayang mga groseri. Tanggalin natin ang hadlang ng pamahalaan at tulungan ang ating bansa na 
muling umunlad.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Chase Russell Oliver 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ang Partido Pagkakaisa ng Amerika ay naninindigan sa pagpapabuti ng ating bansa at 
mundo sa pamamagitan ng mga patakarang ginagabayan ng mga pinahahalagahan ng Kristiyanong 
Demokratiko. Si Peter Sonski at Lauren Onak ay naniniwala na lahat ng tao–sila man ay hindi pa 
isinisilang, mahina, mahirap, o nakakulong–ay may likas na dignidad ng tao na hindi matatanggal. 
Hinihingi ng ating paninindigan sa isa’t isa na pagsikapan natin ang hustisya nang magkakasama, sa 
anumang antas ng pamahalaan o lipunan na pinakamahusay na tumutugon sa mga pangangailangan 
ng ating mga pamilya at komunidad. Naniniwala kami sa isang pangangalaga sa kapaligiran na 
inuuna ang mga tao at mga komunidad, habang nagpoprotekta sa ating planeta para sa mga susunod 
na henerasyon. Sinusuportahan namin ang mga maka-pamilya na patakaran na nagbibigay ng 
kapangyarihan sa mga pamilya upang malugod na tanggapin ang mga bata sa mundo sa pamamagitan 
ng pagbawas sa mga hadlang na pangkabuhayan na kinakaharap nila. Kami ay nagtataguyod para sa 
mga manggagawa at lokal na negosyo at lilikha ng mga insentibo para sa pagbuo ng isang malawak 
ang pagmamay-ari na ekonomiya.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Peter  Sonski 
Partido sa Pagkakaisa
Presidente
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan9Pangulo at Bise Pangulo - Partidong Demokratiko (D)
 Si Claudia De la Cruz ay isang ina, edukador, pastora, at buong-buhay na tagaorganisa sa 
komunidad na ang trabaho ay nakalaan sa hustisya para sa nagtatrabahong uri. Sinasabi namin na 
“Tapusin ang Kapitalismo Bago Tayo Tapusin Nito” . Ang mga lokal ay dumaranas ng nakakadurog na 
mga pabigat na gastos sa bahay, groseri, at utang. Hinahayaan ng sistemang ito ang iilang bilyonaryo 
na patakbuhin ang ekonomiya, maglunsad ng mga digmaan, at sirain ang planeta. Ang Wall Street at 
mga pangkorporasyong pulitiko ay gumagamit ng militar upang kunin, wasakin, at dumihan ang lupa 
mula sa Red Hill hanggang Gaza. Mula sa kapabayaan ng pamahalaan sa Lahaina hanggang sa mga 
pang-aagaw ng lupa sa buong Hawai’i, mas mahalaga sa mga kapitalista ang pagtatayo ng mga resort 
kaysa muling pagtatayo ng mga komunidad. Sinusuportahan namin ang sariling determinasyon para 
sa bansang Hawaii at mga buong karapatan para sa lahat ng imigrante. Sinasabi namin na itigil ang 
digmaan sa Itim na Amerika, tapusin ang pagpatay ng lahi ng mga Palestino, at tapusin ang tulong 
ng US sa Israel. Ang gusto namin ay kapayapaan, hindi ang walang katapusang digmaan. Magtayo ng 
kilusan ng mga tao para sa hustisya, nang magkakasama!PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Partido ukol sa Sosyalismo at 
Pagpapalaya
Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Si Bise Presidente Harris ay lumalaban para sa isang Bagong Paraan ng Pagsulong na 
nagpoprotekta sa ating mga pundamental na kalayaan kabilang ang karapatan ng isang babae na 
pumili, pinalalakas ang ating demokrasya, at tinitiyak na ang bawat tao ay may oportunidad upang hindi 
lamang makaraos, kundi umunlad. Bilang isang tagausig, Pangkalahatang Abogado, Senador, at ngayon 
ay Bise Presidente ng Estados Unidos, si Kamala Harris ay laging naninindigan para sa mga tao laban 
sa mga maninila, manloloko, at makapangyarihang interes. Pinalaki ng isang nagtatrabahong ina sa 
isang gitnang-uring sambahayan, siya ay naniniwala na kapag ang gitnang uri ay malakas, ang Amerika 
ay malakas at bilang Presidente, gagawin niyang pangunahing prayoridad na ibaba ang mga halaga 
ng bilihin at itaas ang seguridad na pangkabuhayan. Siya ay nangangakong maging isang presidente 
para sa lahat ng Amerikano, isang presidente na pinagkakaisa tayo para sa ating mga pinakamataas na 
mithiin, at isang presidente na laging lumalaban para sa mga Amerikano. Mula sa hukuman hanggang 
sa White House, iyon ang kanyang trabaho sa buhay.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kamala D. Harris 
Partido Demokratiko
Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Pagkatapos maglakbay sa lahat ng 50 estado, nakita ko kung paano ang implasyon at 
sobrang pag-abot ng pamahalaan ay pumipigil sa mga tao. Sa pagbawas ng paggasta at pagbalanse ng 
badyet, mababawasan natin ang gastos sa pamumuhay at mapapalakas ang ekonomiya para sa lahat. 
Tatapusin ko ang mga digmaan, pauuwiin ang ating mga sundalo, at pawawalang-bisa ang Batas Jones 
upang ibaba ang mga gastos sa shipping, bibigyan ang mga mamamayan ng Hawaii ng daan sa mas 
aboit-kayang mga groseri. Tanggalin natin ang hadlang ng pamahalaan at tulungan ang ating bansa na 
muling umunlad.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Chase Russell Oliver 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ang Partido Pagkakaisa ng Amerika ay naninindigan sa pagpapabuti ng ating bansa at 
mundo sa pamamagitan ng mga patakarang ginagabayan ng mga pinahahalagahan ng Kristiyanong 
Demokratiko. Si Peter Sonski at Lauren Onak ay naniniwala na lahat ng tao–sila man ay hindi pa 
isinisilang, mahina, mahirap, o nakakulong–ay may likas na dignidad ng tao na hindi matatanggal. 
Hinihingi ng ating paninindigan sa isa’t isa na pagsikapan natin ang hustisya nang magkakasama, sa 
anumang antas ng pamahalaan o lipunan na pinakamahusay na tumutugon sa mga pangangailangan 
ng ating mga pamilya at komunidad. Naniniwala kami sa isang pangangalaga sa kapaligiran na 
inuuna ang mga tao at mga komunidad, habang nagpoprotekta sa ating planeta para sa mga susunod 
na henerasyon. Sinusuportahan namin ang mga maka-pamilya na patakaran na nagbibigay ng 
kapangyarihan sa mga pamilya upang malugod na tanggapin ang mga bata sa mundo sa pamamagitan 
ng pagbawas sa mga hadlang na pangkabuhayan na kinakaharap nila. Kami ay nagtataguyod para sa 
mga manggagawa at lokal na negosyo at lilikha ng mga insentibo para sa pagbuo ng isang malawak 
ang pagmamay-ari na ekonomiya.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Peter  Sonski 
Partido sa Pagkakaisa
Presidente
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com Si Gobernador Tim Walz ay isang kampeon para sa mga nagtatrabahong pamilya. Siya 
ay pumasok sa Pambansang Guwardiya ng Armi at 24 na taong naglingkod. Si Walz ay naglingkod 
sa kanyang komunidad bilang isang guro at coach ng football – dinala ang kanyang koponan sa 
kampeonato ng estado sa unang pagkakataon sa kasaysayan ng paaralan. Siya ay nahalal sa Kongreso 
sa nakahilig sa Republikano na distrito, kung saan naglingkod siya sa Komite ng Kamara sa mga 
Gawain ng mga Beterano at nagpasa ng batas upang tumulong na mapigil ang pagpapakamatay ng 
mga beterano. Bilang gobernador, si Walz ay nagbawas ng mga buwis, nagbaba ng halaga ng insulin, 
umusig sa mga basurang bayad, at pumirma upang maging batas ang may bayad na bakasyon. Si 
Walz ay nanindigan para sa mga pundamental na kalayaan at nagpasa ng batas na nagpoprotekta sa 
karapatan ng isang babae na pumili kasunod ng pagpapawalang-bisa ni Trump sa Roe. Isang may-ari 
ng baril at mangangaso, pinalawak ni Walz at mga pagsusuri ng nakaraan sa Minnesota. At, siya ay 
nagtrabaho kasama ng ibang partido upang ipasa ang dalawang-partidong pakete ng imprastraktura.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
WALZ, Tim
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Timothy J. Walz 
Partido Demokratiko
Bise Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Si Propesor Rudolph “Butch” Ware ay isang buong-buhay na aktibista at edukador na 
espesyalista sa kasaysayan ng imperyo, kolonyalismo, pagpatay ng lahi at rebolusyon. Sa nakalipas 
na dalawang dekada, inilagay ni Ware ang iskolarship sa serbisyo sa mga tao, lalo na bilang tugon 
sa patuloy na pagpatay ng lahi sa Gaza, gayon din sa pagpatay kay George Floyd noong 2020. Siya 
ay nag-organisa ng mga pagtuturo, kurikulum ng edukasyon sa komunidad, at ibang mga inisyatiba 
ng aktibista at pag-oorganisa. Mas malawak, si Ware ay nagtatrabaho bilang isang pampublikong 
intelektuwal, aktibista, artista, at tagaorganisa, sinusuportahan ang mga komunidad sa buong bansa 
at sa mundo upang hamunin ang imperyalismo, paglilinis na etniko, at walang katapusang digmaan, at 
upang magtayo ng maipagpapatuloy, makatarungan, mapayapang mga alternatibo na nakaugat sa mga 
tradisyong Aprikano, Katutubo at Abrahamiko. Si Ware ay isang nangungunang awtoridad sa akdemya 
sa Itim na Tradisyong Radikal sa U.S., Aprika at Islam. Si Propesor Ware ay isang buong miyembro 
ng mga tagapagturo sa Northwestern, Michigan, at ngayon ay sa UC Santa-Barbara, nagtuturo ng 
Kasaysayan, Mga Pag-aaral Tungkol sa Itim, at mga pag-aaral na Islamiko.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
WARE, Rudolph
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Rudolph  Ware 
Partido Berde
Bise Presidente
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan10Pangulo at Bise Pangulo - Partidong Libertaryan (L)
 Si Karina Garcia ay isang Chicana na tagaorganisa at edukador na lumalaban para sa 
mas magandang hinaharap mula pa noong siya ay 17 . Pagkatapos tumanggap ng buong iskolarsip sa 
Columbia, si Karina ay nagturo bilang guro ng matematika sa mataas na paaralan. Siya ay tumulong na 
mamuno sa mga kampanya para sa mga karapatan sa aborsiyon, mga karapatan ng mga domestikong 
manggagawa, buong mga karapatan para sa mga imigrante, at pangkansela ng utang ng estudyante. 
Ang kampanyang ito ay nananawagan para sa isang lubos na bagong ekonomiya na naglilingkod 
sa uring manggagawa, hindi sa mga bilyonaryo. Ang isang uring manggagawa na pamahalaan ay 
makakatugon sa mga pangangailangan ng mga tao –tulad ng libreng pangangalagang pangkalusugan, 
libreng edukasyon sa lahat ng antas, libreng pag-aalaga ng bata, disenteng bahay, at mga karapatan sa 
mga trabaho sa unyon na ayon sa konstitusyon. Si Claudia at Karina ay tumatakbong kasama ng Partido 
para sa Sosyalismo at Kalayaan (PSL), na lumalaban para sa mga pangunahing pangangailangan ng 
mahihirap at mga nagtatrabahong tao at para sa isang bagong lipunan – sosyalismo. Ang kampanyang 
ito ay tungkol sa higit sa isang halalan, ito’y tungkol sa pagbuo ng isang kilusang pangmasa na malaya 
mula sa dalawang partidong maka-korporasyon.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Karina  Garcia 
Partido ukol sa Sosyalismo at 
Pagpapalaya
Bise Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ang isang pinagsamang pahayag ay isinumite para sa mga kandidato para sa Presidente 
at Bise Presidente.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Lauren M. Onak 
Partido sa Pagkakaisa
Bise Presidente
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Si Mike ter Maat ay may isang matagumpay na karera sa ekonomiya na binigyang-diin ng 
kanyang trabaho sa Opisina ng Pamamahala ng Badyet sa White House at pagtuturo sa unibersidad. 
Habang nasa Washington DC, siya ay nagtaguyod para sa mas malayang mga pamilihan ng serbisyo 
sa pananalapi. Si Mike ter Maat ay naglingkod bilang isang opisyal ng pulisya ng County ng Broward 
para sa 11.5 na taon. Nakita niya sa sariling karanasan ang pangangailangan ng mahahalagang reporma 
sa pagpapatupad ng batas, kasama sa mga ito, ang pag-uugnay ng bayad sa pagganap at pagpapalit 
sa limitadong imyunidad ng personal na liabilidad na seguro. Ang patakarang panlabas ni Ter Maat ay 
nagbibigay-diin sa etika at hindi pakikihalo sa pamamagitan ng pag-iwas sa tulong sa ibang bansa at 
paglahok ng militar habang ginagamit ang kalakalan upang himukin at patatagin ang mga relasyon. 
Si Ter Maat ay nagmumungkahi ng mas kaunting mga hadlang sa ayon sa batas na imigrasyon at mas 
mataas na mga kakayahan para sa mas mabilis na pagsusuri. Nagtataguyod si Mike ter Maat para sa 
paghihiwalay ng awtoridad upang limitahan ang kapangyarihan ng pamahalaan at pagsunod sa ating 
Batas sa mga Karapatan.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Michael A. ter Maat 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Bise Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Isang karangalan na manindigang kasama si President Donald J. Trump habang 
nagtatrabaho tayo upang ibalik ang dakilang bansang ito. Sa kabila ng walang-tigil na atake, ang 
dedikasyon ni Presidente Trump sa mga mamamayang Amerikano ay hindi natitinag. Hindi siya 
pumasok sa pulitika para sa kanyang sarili—ginawa niya ito dahil kailangan siya ng Amerika. Inuuna 
ni Presidente Trump ang Amerika, lumalaban para sa mga manggagawa, pamilya, at komunidad. Sa 
ilalim ng kanyang pamumuno, nakita natin ang pinakamalakas na ekonomiya sa kasaysayan, mga 
ligtas na hangganan, at muling naitatag na dangal ng Amerika. Ang establisimyento ng Washington ay 
sumasalungat sa kanya dahil siya ay nagtatrabaho para sa inyo, hindi para sa kanila. Ang halalang ito 
ay napakahalaga. Sa ilalim ni Joe Biden, nakita natin ang bigong ekonomiya, pandaigdig na kawalan 
ng katatagan, at tumataas na krimen. Gagawin lang ni Kamala Harris na mas malala ang mga bagay. 
Pero kay Presidente Trump, makakabalik tayo sa lakas at kasaganaan na minsan ay tinamasa natin. 
Ikinararangal kong manindigang kasama ni Presidente Trump at hinihingi ang inyong boto. Muli natin 
siyang ihalal at ipagpatuloy ang pagbabalik ng kadakilaan ng Amerika. Salamat sa inyo, at pagpalain 
nawa ng Diyos ang Amerika.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
James David Vance 
Republika Partido
Bise Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com Si Claudia De la Cruz ay isang ina, edukador, pastora, at buong-buhay na tagaorganisa sa 
komunidad na ang trabaho ay nakalaan sa hustisya para sa nagtatrabahong uri. Sinasabi namin na 
“Tapusin ang Kapitalismo Bago Tayo Tapusin Nito” . Ang mga lokal ay dumaranas ng nakakadurog na 
mga pabigat na gastos sa bahay, groseri, at utang. Hinahayaan ng sistemang ito ang iilang bilyonaryo 
na patakbuhin ang ekonomiya, maglunsad ng mga digmaan, at sirain ang planeta. Ang Wall Street at 
mga pangkorporasyong pulitiko ay gumagamit ng militar upang kunin, wasakin, at dumihan ang lupa 
mula sa Red Hill hanggang Gaza. Mula sa kapabayaan ng pamahalaan sa Lahaina hanggang sa mga 
pang-aagaw ng lupa sa buong Hawai’i, mas mahalaga sa mga kapitalista ang pagtatayo ng mga resort 
kaysa muling pagtatayo ng mga komunidad. Sinusuportahan namin ang sariling determinasyon para 
sa bansang Hawaii at mga buong karapatan para sa lahat ng imigrante. Sinasabi namin na itigil ang 
digmaan sa Itim na Amerika, tapusin ang pagpatay ng lahi ng mga Palestino, at tapusin ang tulong 
ng US sa Israel. Ang gusto namin ay kapayapaan, hindi ang walang katapusang digmaan. Magtayo ng 
kilusan ng mga tao para sa hustisya, nang magkakasama!PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Partido ukol sa Sosyalismo at 
Pagpapalaya
Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Si Bise Presidente Harris ay lumalaban para sa isang Bagong Paraan ng Pagsulong na 
nagpoprotekta sa ating mga pundamental na kalayaan kabilang ang karapatan ng isang babae na 
pumili, pinalalakas ang ating demokrasya, at tinitiyak na ang bawat tao ay may oportunidad upang hindi 
lamang makaraos, kundi umunlad. Bilang isang tagausig, Pangkalahatang Abogado, Senador, at ngayon 
ay Bise Presidente ng Estados Unidos, si Kamala Harris ay laging naninindigan para sa mga tao laban 
sa mga maninila, manloloko, at makapangyarihang interes. Pinalaki ng isang nagtatrabahong ina sa 
isang gitnang-uring sambahayan, siya ay naniniwala na kapag ang gitnang uri ay malakas, ang Amerika 
ay malakas at bilang Presidente, gagawin niyang pangunahing prayoridad na ibaba ang mga halaga 
ng bilihin at itaas ang seguridad na pangkabuhayan. Siya ay nangangakong maging isang presidente 
para sa lahat ng Amerikano, isang presidente na pinagkakaisa tayo para sa ating mga pinakamataas na 
mithiin, at isang presidente na laging lumalaban para sa mga Amerikano. Mula sa hukuman hanggang 
sa White House, iyon ang kanyang trabaho sa buhay.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kamala D. Harris 
Partido Demokratiko
Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Pagkatapos maglakbay sa lahat ng 50 estado, nakita ko kung paano ang implasyon at 
sobrang pag-abot ng pamahalaan ay pumipigil sa mga tao. Sa pagbawas ng paggasta at pagbalanse ng 
badyet, mababawasan natin ang gastos sa pamumuhay at mapapalakas ang ekonomiya para sa lahat. 
Tatapusin ko ang mga digmaan, pauuwiin ang ating mga sundalo, at pawawalang-bisa ang Batas Jones 
upang ibaba ang mga gastos sa shipping, bibigyan ang mga mamamayan ng Hawaii ng daan sa mas 
aboit-kayang mga groseri. Tanggalin natin ang hadlang ng pamahalaan at tulungan ang ating bansa na 
muling umunlad.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Chase Russell Oliver 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ang Partido Pagkakaisa ng Amerika ay naninindigan sa pagpapabuti ng ating bansa at 
mundo sa pamamagitan ng mga patakarang ginagabayan ng mga pinahahalagahan ng Kristiyanong 
Demokratiko. Si Peter Sonski at Lauren Onak ay naniniwala na lahat ng tao–sila man ay hindi pa 
isinisilang, mahina, mahirap, o nakakulong–ay may likas na dignidad ng tao na hindi matatanggal. 
Hinihingi ng ating paninindigan sa isa’t isa na pagsikapan natin ang hustisya nang magkakasama, sa 
anumang antas ng pamahalaan o lipunan na pinakamahusay na tumutugon sa mga pangangailangan 
ng ating mga pamilya at komunidad. Naniniwala kami sa isang pangangalaga sa kapaligiran na 
inuuna ang mga tao at mga komunidad, habang nagpoprotekta sa ating planeta para sa mga susunod 
na henerasyon. Sinusuportahan namin ang mga maka-pamilya na patakaran na nagbibigay ng 
kapangyarihan sa mga pamilya upang malugod na tanggapin ang mga bata sa mundo sa pamamagitan 
ng pagbawas sa mga hadlang na pangkabuhayan na kinakaharap nila. Kami ay nagtataguyod para sa 
mga manggagawa at lokal na negosyo at lilikha ng mga insentibo para sa pagbuo ng isang malawak 
ang pagmamay-ari na ekonomiya.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Peter  Sonski 
Partido sa Pagkakaisa
Presidente
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.comPangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan11Pangulo at Bise Pangulo - Partidong Pagkakaisa (S)
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Si Karina Garcia ay isang Chicana na tagaorganisa at edukador na lumalaban para sa 
mas magandang hinaharap mula pa noong siya ay 17 . Pagkatapos tumanggap ng buong iskolarsip sa 
Columbia, si Karina ay nagturo bilang guro ng matematika sa mataas na paaralan. Siya ay tumulong na 
mamuno sa mga kampanya para sa mga karapatan sa aborsiyon, mga karapatan ng mga domestikong 
manggagawa, buong mga karapatan para sa mga imigrante, at pangkansela ng utang ng estudyante. 
Ang kampanyang ito ay nananawagan para sa isang lubos na bagong ekonomiya na naglilingkod 
sa uring manggagawa, hindi sa mga bilyonaryo. Ang isang uring manggagawa na pamahalaan ay 
makakatugon sa mga pangangailangan ng mga tao –tulad ng libreng pangangalagang pangkalusugan, 
libreng edukasyon sa lahat ng antas, libreng pag-aalaga ng bata, disenteng bahay, at mga karapatan sa 
mga trabaho sa unyon na ayon sa konstitusyon. Si Claudia at Karina ay tumatakbong kasama ng Partido 
para sa Sosyalismo at Kalayaan (PSL), na lumalaban para sa mga pangunahing pangangailangan ng 
mahihirap at mga nagtatrabahong tao at para sa isang bagong lipunan – sosyalismo. Ang kampanyang 
ito ay tungkol sa higit sa isang halalan, ito’y tungkol sa pagbuo ng isang kilusang pangmasa na malaya 
mula sa dalawang partidong maka-korporasyon.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Karina  Garcia 
Partido ukol sa Sosyalismo at 
Pagpapalaya
Bise Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ang isang pinagsamang pahayag ay isinumite para sa mga kandidato para sa Presidente 
at Bise Presidente.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Lauren M. Onak 
Partido sa Pagkakaisa
Bise Presidente
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Si Mike ter Maat ay may isang matagumpay na karera sa ekonomiya na binigyang-diin ng 
kanyang trabaho sa Opisina ng Pamamahala ng Badyet sa White House at pagtuturo sa unibersidad. 
Habang nasa Washington DC, siya ay nagtaguyod para sa mas malayang mga pamilihan ng serbisyo 
sa pananalapi. Si Mike ter Maat ay naglingkod bilang isang opisyal ng pulisya ng County ng Broward 
para sa 11.5 na taon. Nakita niya sa sariling karanasan ang pangangailangan ng mahahalagang reporma 
sa pagpapatupad ng batas, kasama sa mga ito, ang pag-uugnay ng bayad sa pagganap at pagpapalit 
sa limitadong imyunidad ng personal na liabilidad na seguro. Ang patakarang panlabas ni Ter Maat ay 
nagbibigay-diin sa etika at hindi pakikihalo sa pamamagitan ng pag-iwas sa tulong sa ibang bansa at 
paglahok ng militar habang ginagamit ang kalakalan upang himukin at patatagin ang mga relasyon. 
Si Ter Maat ay nagmumungkahi ng mas kaunting mga hadlang sa ayon sa batas na imigrasyon at mas 
mataas na mga kakayahan para sa mas mabilis na pagsusuri. Nagtataguyod si Mike ter Maat para sa 
paghihiwalay ng awtoridad upang limitahan ang kapangyarihan ng pamahalaan at pagsunod sa ating 
Batas sa mga Karapatan.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Michael A. ter Maat 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Bise Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Isang karangalan na manindigang kasama si President Donald J. Trump habang 
nagtatrabaho tayo upang ibalik ang dakilang bansang ito. Sa kabila ng walang-tigil na atake, ang 
dedikasyon ni Presidente Trump sa mga mamamayang Amerikano ay hindi natitinag. Hindi siya 
pumasok sa pulitika para sa kanyang sarili—ginawa niya ito dahil kailangan siya ng Amerika. Inuuna 
ni Presidente Trump ang Amerika, lumalaban para sa mga manggagawa, pamilya, at komunidad. Sa 
ilalim ng kanyang pamumuno, nakita natin ang pinakamalakas na ekonomiya sa kasaysayan, mga 
ligtas na hangganan, at muling naitatag na dangal ng Amerika. Ang establisimyento ng Washington ay 
sumasalungat sa kanya dahil siya ay nagtatrabaho para sa inyo, hindi para sa kanila. Ang halalang ito 
ay napakahalaga. Sa ilalim ni Joe Biden, nakita natin ang bigong ekonomiya, pandaigdig na kawalan 
ng katatagan, at tumataas na krimen. Gagawin lang ni Kamala Harris na mas malala ang mga bagay. 
Pero kay Presidente Trump, makakabalik tayo sa lakas at kasaganaan na minsan ay tinamasa natin. 
Ikinararangal kong manindigang kasama ni Presidente Trump at hinihingi ang inyong boto. Muli natin 
siyang ihalal at ipagpatuloy ang pagbabalik ng kadakilaan ng Amerika. Salamat sa inyo, at pagpalain 
nawa ng Diyos ang Amerika.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
James David Vance 
Republika Partido
Bise Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com Si Claudia De la Cruz ay isang ina, edukador, pastora, at buong-buhay na tagaorganisa sa 
komunidad na ang trabaho ay nakalaan sa hustisya para sa nagtatrabahong uri. Sinasabi namin na 
“Tapusin ang Kapitalismo Bago Tayo Tapusin Nito” . Ang mga lokal ay dumaranas ng nakakadurog na 
mga pabigat na gastos sa bahay, groseri, at utang. Hinahayaan ng sistemang ito ang iilang bilyonaryo 
na patakbuhin ang ekonomiya, maglunsad ng mga digmaan, at sirain ang planeta. Ang Wall Street at 
mga pangkorporasyong pulitiko ay gumagamit ng militar upang kunin, wasakin, at dumihan ang lupa 
mula sa Red Hill hanggang Gaza. Mula sa kapabayaan ng pamahalaan sa Lahaina hanggang sa mga 
pang-aagaw ng lupa sa buong Hawai’i, mas mahalaga sa mga kapitalista ang pagtatayo ng mga resort 
kaysa muling pagtatayo ng mga komunidad. Sinusuportahan namin ang sariling determinasyon para 
sa bansang Hawaii at mga buong karapatan para sa lahat ng imigrante. Sinasabi namin na itigil ang 
digmaan sa Itim na Amerika, tapusin ang pagpatay ng lahi ng mga Palestino, at tapusin ang tulong 
ng US sa Israel. Ang gusto namin ay kapayapaan, hindi ang walang katapusang digmaan. Magtayo ng 
kilusan ng mga tao para sa hustisya, nang magkakasama!PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DE LA CRUZ, Claudia
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Claudia  De La Cruz 
Partido ukol sa Sosyalismo at 
Pagpapalaya
Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Si Bise Presidente Harris ay lumalaban para sa isang Bagong Paraan ng Pagsulong na 
nagpoprotekta sa ating mga pundamental na kalayaan kabilang ang karapatan ng isang babae na 
pumili, pinalalakas ang ating demokrasya, at tinitiyak na ang bawat tao ay may oportunidad upang hindi 
lamang makaraos, kundi umunlad. Bilang isang tagausig, Pangkalahatang Abogado, Senador, at ngayon 
ay Bise Presidente ng Estados Unidos, si Kamala Harris ay laging naninindigan para sa mga tao laban 
sa mga maninila, manloloko, at makapangyarihang interes. Pinalaki ng isang nagtatrabahong ina sa 
isang gitnang-uring sambahayan, siya ay naniniwala na kapag ang gitnang uri ay malakas, ang Amerika 
ay malakas at bilang Presidente, gagawin niyang pangunahing prayoridad na ibaba ang mga halaga 
ng bilihin at itaas ang seguridad na pangkabuhayan. Siya ay nangangakong maging isang presidente 
para sa lahat ng Amerikano, isang presidente na pinagkakaisa tayo para sa ating mga pinakamataas na 
mithiin, at isang presidente na laging lumalaban para sa mga Amerikano. Mula sa hukuman hanggang 
sa White House, iyon ang kanyang trabaho sa buhay.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HARRIS, Kamala D.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kamala D. Harris 
Partido Demokratiko
Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Pagkatapos maglakbay sa lahat ng 50 estado, nakita ko kung paano ang implasyon at 
sobrang pag-abot ng pamahalaan ay pumipigil sa mga tao. Sa pagbawas ng paggasta at pagbalanse ng 
badyet, mababawasan natin ang gastos sa pamumuhay at mapapalakas ang ekonomiya para sa lahat. 
Tatapusin ko ang mga digmaan, pauuwiin ang ating mga sundalo, at pawawalang-bisa ang Batas Jones 
upang ibaba ang mga gastos sa shipping, bibigyan ang mga mamamayan ng Hawaii ng daan sa mas 
aboit-kayang mga groseri. Tanggalin natin ang hadlang ng pamahalaan at tulungan ang ating bansa na 
muling umunlad.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
OLIVER, Chase
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Chase Russell Oliver 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Ang Partido Pagkakaisa ng Amerika ay naninindigan sa pagpapabuti ng ating bansa at 
mundo sa pamamagitan ng mga patakarang ginagabayan ng mga pinahahalagahan ng Kristiyanong 
Demokratiko. Si Peter Sonski at Lauren Onak ay naniniwala na lahat ng tao–sila man ay hindi pa 
isinisilang, mahina, mahirap, o nakakulong–ay may likas na dignidad ng tao na hindi matatanggal. 
Hinihingi ng ating paninindigan sa isa’t isa na pagsikapan natin ang hustisya nang magkakasama, sa 
anumang antas ng pamahalaan o lipunan na pinakamahusay na tumutugon sa mga pangangailangan 
ng ating mga pamilya at komunidad. Naniniwala kami sa isang pangangalaga sa kapaligiran na 
inuuna ang mga tao at mga komunidad, habang nagpoprotekta sa ating planeta para sa mga susunod 
na henerasyon. Sinusuportahan namin ang mga maka-pamilya na patakaran na nagbibigay ng 
kapangyarihan sa mga pamilya upang malugod na tanggapin ang mga bata sa mundo sa pamamagitan 
ng pagbawas sa mga hadlang na pangkabuhayan na kinakaharap nila. Kami ay nagtataguyod para sa 
mga manggagawa at lokal na negosyo at lilikha ng mga insentibo para sa pagbuo ng isang malawak 
ang pagmamay-ari na ekonomiya.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SONSKI, Peter
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Peter  Sonski 
Partido sa Pagkakaisa
Presidente
www.petersonski.com
info@petersonski.com2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan12Pangulo at Bise Pangulo - Partidong Luntian (G)
 Si Gobernador Tim Walz ay isang kampeon para sa mga nagtatrabahong pamilya. Siya 
ay pumasok sa Pambansang Guwardiya ng Armi at 24 na taong naglingkod. Si Walz ay naglingkod 
sa kanyang komunidad bilang isang guro at coach ng football – dinala ang kanyang koponan sa 
kampeonato ng estado sa unang pagkakataon sa kasaysayan ng paaralan. Siya ay nahalal sa Kongreso 
sa nakahilig sa Republikano na distrito, kung saan naglingkod siya sa Komite ng Kamara sa mga 
Gawain ng mga Beterano at nagpasa ng batas upang tumulong na mapigil ang pagpapakamatay ng 
mga beterano. Bilang gobernador, si Walz ay nagbawas ng mga buwis, nagbaba ng halaga ng insulin, 
umusig sa mga basurang bayad, at pumirma upang maging batas ang may bayad na bakasyon. Si 
Walz ay nanindigan para sa mga pundamental na kalayaan at nagpasa ng batas na nagpoprotekta sa 
karapatan ng isang babae na pumili kasunod ng pagpapawalang-bisa ni Trump sa Roe. Isang may-ari 
ng baril at mangangaso, pinalawak ni Walz at mga pagsusuri ng nakaraan sa Minnesota. At, siya ay 
nagtrabaho kasama ng ibang partido upang ipasa ang dalawang-partidong pakete ng imprastraktura.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
WALZ, Tim
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Timothy J. Walz 
Partido Demokratiko
Bise Presidente
www.kamalaharris.com
info@kamalaharris.com
 Si Propesor Rudolph “Butch” Ware ay isang buong-buhay na aktibista at edukador na 
espesyalista sa kasaysayan ng imperyo, kolonyalismo, pagpatay ng lahi at rebolusyon. Sa nakalipas 
na dalawang dekada, inilagay ni Ware ang iskolarship sa serbisyo sa mga tao, lalo na bilang tugon 
sa patuloy na pagpatay ng lahi sa Gaza, gayon din sa pagpatay kay George Floyd noong 2020. Siya 
ay nag-organisa ng mga pagtuturo, kurikulum ng edukasyon sa komunidad, at ibang mga inisyatiba 
ng aktibista at pag-oorganisa. Mas malawak, si Ware ay nagtatrabaho bilang isang pampublikong 
intelektuwal, aktibista, artista, at tagaorganisa, sinusuportahan ang mga komunidad sa buong bansa 
at sa mundo upang hamunin ang imperyalismo, paglilinis na etniko, at walang katapusang digmaan, at 
upang magtayo ng maipagpapatuloy, makatarungan, mapayapang mga alternatibo na nakaugat sa mga 
tradisyong Aprikano, Katutubo at Abrahamiko. Si Ware ay isang nangungunang awtoridad sa akdemya 
sa Itim na Tradisyong Radikal sa U.S., Aprika at Islam. Si Propesor Ware ay isang buong miyembro 
ng mga tagapagturo sa Northwestern, Michigan, at ngayon ay sa UC Santa-Barbara, nagtuturo ng 
Kasaysayan, Mga Pag-aaral Tungkol sa Itim, at mga pag-aaral na Islamiko.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
WARE, Rudolph
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Rudolph  Ware 
Partido Berde
Bise Presidente
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Ang sistemang pampulitika ay sira. Ang dalawang Wall Street na partido ay binibili 
at nababayaran. Iniiwan ng pareho ang mga nagtatrabahong tao, pinababayaan ang pabahay, 
pangangalagang pangkalusugan at edukasyon, pinalalala ang krisis sa klima at nilulustay ang mga 
trilyon sa walang katapusang makina ng digmaan. Higit sa 60% sa atin ay nagsasabi ngayon na ang 
dalawang-partidong sistema ay nabigo at kailangan natin ng isang partidong naglilingkod sa mga 
tao. Ako’y tumatakbo upang mag-alay ng pagpiling iyon: isang maka-manggagawa, laban sa digmaan, 
aksyon sa klima na kampanya sa balota sa buong bansa. Tinatanggihan namin ang nakakasirang pera 
mula sa mga korporasyon at bilyonaryo. Lalaban kami para sa isang ekonomiya na gumagana para sa 
mga nagtatrabahong tao, may Medicare para sa Lahat, abot-kayang pabahay, libreng pampublikong 
mas mataas na edukasyon, pagtatapos ng maramihang pagpapakulong at karahasan ng pulisya, 
mga reparasyon para sa mga supling ng inalipin at sinakop na mga tao, at iba pa. Kailangan natin ng 
Berdeng Bagong Kasunduan at tapusin ang walang-katapusang digmaan. At dapat nating tapusin ang 
pagpatay ng lahi sa Palestine.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
STEIN, Jill
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jill  Stein 
Partido Berde
Presidente
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Iniwan ko ang aking dating buhay dahil hindi ako maaaring manood na lang habang 
pinipiga ng mga kareristang pulitiko ang bansang ito. Bilang Presidente, nilabanan ko ang mga 
makapangyarihang espesyal na interes, inayos ang masasamang kasunduan sa kalakal, tinapos ang 
mga banyagang digmaan, ginawang ligtas ang hangganan, at nilabanan ang Malaking Pharma at 
China. Magkakasama, Inuna natin ang Amerika at ibinalik ang kapangyarihan sa mga tao. Pero ngayon, 
winawasak ng tiwaling kartel ng pamahalaan ang ating bansa. Nakakakita tayo ng mga atake sa 
malayang pagsasalita, laganap na krimen, mga teroristang bumabaha sa ating hangganan, at isang 
bigong ekonomiya. Ang liberty, kalayaan, at pananampalataya ay inaatake. Ang ating kilusan upang 
Gawing Dakilang Muli ang Amerika ay ang tanging puwersa na may sapat na lakas upang ibalik 
ang kaligtasan, kasaganaan, at kapayapaan. Ilalabas ko ang enerhiyang Amerikano, bubuhayin ang 
mga pagbawas ng buwis, pawawalang-bisa ang mga nakakasugpong regulasyon, at patitigilin ang 
maaksayang paggasta. Minsan na tayong nakagawa ng pinakamahusay na ekonomiyang Amerikano, at 
gagawin natin itong muli. Magkakasama, ibabalik natin ang kasaganaan at kadakilaan ng Amerika.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TRUMP, Donald J.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Donald John Trump 
Republika Partido
Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan13Pangulo at Bise Pangulo - Partidong Republikano (R)
 Si Karina Garcia ay isang Chicana na tagaorganisa at edukador na lumalaban para sa 
mas magandang hinaharap mula pa noong siya ay 17 . Pagkatapos tumanggap ng buong iskolarsip sa 
Columbia, si Karina ay nagturo bilang guro ng matematika sa mataas na paaralan. Siya ay tumulong na 
mamuno sa mga kampanya para sa mga karapatan sa aborsiyon, mga karapatan ng mga domestikong 
manggagawa, buong mga karapatan para sa mga imigrante, at pangkansela ng utang ng estudyante. 
Ang kampanyang ito ay nananawagan para sa isang lubos na bagong ekonomiya na naglilingkod 
sa uring manggagawa, hindi sa mga bilyonaryo. Ang isang uring manggagawa na pamahalaan ay 
makakatugon sa mga pangangailangan ng mga tao –tulad ng libreng pangangalagang pangkalusugan, 
libreng edukasyon sa lahat ng antas, libreng pag-aalaga ng bata, disenteng bahay, at mga karapatan sa 
mga trabaho sa unyon na ayon sa konstitusyon. Si Claudia at Karina ay tumatakbong kasama ng Partido 
para sa Sosyalismo at Kalayaan (PSL), na lumalaban para sa mga pangunahing pangangailangan ng 
mahihirap at mga nagtatrabahong tao at para sa isang bagong lipunan – sosyalismo. Ang kampanyang 
ito ay tungkol sa higit sa isang halalan, ito’y tungkol sa pagbuo ng isang kilusang pangmasa na malaya 
mula sa dalawang partidong maka-korporasyon.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
GARCIA, Karina
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Karina  Garcia 
Partido ukol sa Sosyalismo at 
Pagpapalaya
Bise Presidente
votesocialist2024.com
info@votesocialist2024.com
 Ang isang pinagsamang pahayag ay isinumite para sa mga kandidato para sa Presidente 
at Bise Presidente.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ONAK, Lauren
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Lauren M. Onak 
Partido sa Pagkakaisa
Bise Presidente
www.petersonski.com
lauren@petersonski.com
 Si Mike ter Maat ay may isang matagumpay na karera sa ekonomiya na binigyang-diin ng 
kanyang trabaho sa Opisina ng Pamamahala ng Badyet sa White House at pagtuturo sa unibersidad. 
Habang nasa Washington DC, siya ay nagtaguyod para sa mas malayang mga pamilihan ng serbisyo 
sa pananalapi. Si Mike ter Maat ay naglingkod bilang isang opisyal ng pulisya ng County ng Broward 
para sa 11.5 na taon. Nakita niya sa sariling karanasan ang pangangailangan ng mahahalagang reporma 
sa pagpapatupad ng batas, kasama sa mga ito, ang pag-uugnay ng bayad sa pagganap at pagpapalit 
sa limitadong imyunidad ng personal na liabilidad na seguro. Ang patakarang panlabas ni Ter Maat ay 
nagbibigay-diin sa etika at hindi pakikihalo sa pamamagitan ng pag-iwas sa tulong sa ibang bansa at 
paglahok ng militar habang ginagamit ang kalakalan upang himukin at patatagin ang mga relasyon. 
Si Ter Maat ay nagmumungkahi ng mas kaunting mga hadlang sa ayon sa batas na imigrasyon at mas 
mataas na mga kakayahan para sa mas mabilis na pagsusuri. Nagtataguyod si Mike ter Maat para sa 
paghihiwalay ng awtoridad upang limitahan ang kapangyarihan ng pamahalaan at pagsunod sa ating 
Batas sa mga Karapatan.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TER MAAT, Mike
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Michael A. ter Maat 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Bise Presidente
votechaseoliver.com
info@votechaseoliver.com
 Isang karangalan na manindigang kasama si President Donald J. Trump habang 
nagtatrabaho tayo upang ibalik ang dakilang bansang ito. Sa kabila ng walang-tigil na atake, ang 
dedikasyon ni Presidente Trump sa mga mamamayang Amerikano ay hindi natitinag. Hindi siya 
pumasok sa pulitika para sa kanyang sarili—ginawa niya ito dahil kailangan siya ng Amerika. Inuuna 
ni Presidente Trump ang Amerika, lumalaban para sa mga manggagawa, pamilya, at komunidad. Sa 
ilalim ng kanyang pamumuno, nakita natin ang pinakamalakas na ekonomiya sa kasaysayan, mga 
ligtas na hangganan, at muling naitatag na dangal ng Amerika. Ang establisimyento ng Washington ay 
sumasalungat sa kanya dahil siya ay nagtatrabaho para sa inyo, hindi para sa kanila. Ang halalang ito 
ay napakahalaga. Sa ilalim ni Joe Biden, nakita natin ang bigong ekonomiya, pandaigdig na kawalan 
ng katatagan, at tumataas na krimen. Gagawin lang ni Kamala Harris na mas malala ang mga bagay. 
Pero kay Presidente Trump, makakabalik tayo sa lakas at kasaganaan na minsan ay tinamasa natin. 
Ikinararangal kong manindigang kasama ni Presidente Trump at hinihingi ang inyong boto. Muli natin 
siyang ihalal at ipagpatuloy ang pagbabalik ng kadakilaan ng Amerika. Salamat sa inyo, at pagpalain 
nawa ng Diyos ang Amerika.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
VANCE, JD
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
James David Vance 
Republika Partido
Bise Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com
 Ang sistemang pampulitika ay sira. Ang dalawang Wall Street na partido ay binibili 
at nababayaran. Iniiwan ng pareho ang mga nagtatrabahong tao, pinababayaan ang pabahay, 
pangangalagang pangkalusugan at edukasyon, pinalalala ang krisis sa klima at nilulustay ang mga 
trilyon sa walang katapusang makina ng digmaan. Higit sa 60% sa atin ay nagsasabi ngayon na ang 
dalawang-partidong sistema ay nabigo at kailangan natin ng isang partidong naglilingkod sa mga 
tao. Ako’y tumatakbo upang mag-alay ng pagpiling iyon: isang maka-manggagawa, laban sa digmaan, 
aksyon sa klima na kampanya sa balota sa buong bansa. Tinatanggihan namin ang nakakasirang pera 
mula sa mga korporasyon at bilyonaryo. Lalaban kami para sa isang ekonomiya na gumagana para sa 
mga nagtatrabahong tao, may Medicare para sa Lahat, abot-kayang pabahay, libreng pampublikong 
mas mataas na edukasyon, pagtatapos ng maramihang pagpapakulong at karahasan ng pulisya, 
mga reparasyon para sa mga supling ng inalipin at sinakop na mga tao, at iba pa. Kailangan natin ng 
Berdeng Bagong Kasunduan at tapusin ang walang-katapusang digmaan. At dapat nating tapusin ang 
pagpatay ng lahi sa Palestine.PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
STEIN, Jill
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jill  Stein 
Partido Berde
Presidente
www.jillstein2024.com
contact@jillstein2024.com
 Iniwan ko ang aking dating buhay dahil hindi ako maaaring manood na lang habang 
pinipiga ng mga kareristang pulitiko ang bansang ito. Bilang Presidente, nilabanan ko ang mga 
makapangyarihang espesyal na interes, inayos ang masasamang kasunduan sa kalakal, tinapos ang 
mga banyagang digmaan, ginawang ligtas ang hangganan, at nilabanan ang Malaking Pharma at 
China. Magkakasama, Inuna natin ang Amerika at ibinalik ang kapangyarihan sa mga tao. Pero ngayon, 
winawasak ng tiwaling kartel ng pamahalaan ang ating bansa. Nakakakita tayo ng mga atake sa 
malayang pagsasalita, laganap na krimen, mga teroristang bumabaha sa ating hangganan, at isang 
bigong ekonomiya. Ang liberty, kalayaan, at pananampalataya ay inaatake. Ang ating kilusan upang 
Gawing Dakilang Muli ang Amerika ay ang tanging puwersa na may sapat na lakas upang ibalik 
ang kaligtasan, kasaganaan, at kapayapaan. Ilalabas ko ang enerhiyang Amerikano, bubuhayin ang 
mga pagbawas ng buwis, pawawalang-bisa ang mga nakakasugpong regulasyon, at patitigilin ang 
maaksayang paggasta. Minsan na tayong nakagawa ng pinakamahusay na ekonomiyang Amerikano, at 
gagawin natin itong muli. Magkakasama, ibabalik natin ang kasaganaan at kadakilaan ng Amerika.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TRUMP, Donald J.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Donald John Trump 
Republika Partido
Presidente
www.donaldjtrump.com
info@djtfp24.com2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan14Senador ng U.S. 
 Sama-sama nating Wakasan ang Human Trafficking at Pagpupuslit ng Droga! “Hindi mo 
malulutas ang isang problema gamit ang parehong isip ng lumikha nito.” -Albert Einstein Samakatuwid, 
Ang Solusyon ay Simple: Kailangan Nating Baguhin ang Bagay-bagay at “Maging Ang Pagbabago na 
Gusto Nating Makita sa Mundo” -Mahatma Gandhi Maging Bayani ng Sarili Mong Buhay at Pukawin ang 
Ating Mga Henerasyon sa Hinaharap Upang Gawing Mas Magandang Lugar ang Mundo. Naniniwala 
si Pikachu sa Self Sufficiency! Alamin kung paano bumuo ng sarili mong Hale (bahay), Alamin kung 
paano Umasa sa Grid, Alamin kung paano mamuhunan at makipagpalitan ng crypto, at maging mas 
mahusay kaysa kung ano ka kahapon. FYI, si Master Shelby Billionaire ay pinalaki mula sa Wai’anae 
mula sa isang Quonset hut at lumaki na nanonood ng Voltron, Ninja Turtles, Care Bears, Thundercats, 
at Captain Planet. Sa Iyo ang Kapangyarihan! Kung gusto mo ang Super Heroes Bumoto para kay 
Pikachu! Cheeeehuuuuuu Facebook @Shelby Keiki’okalani IG @Legendarybillionaire Youtube @
SuperShelbyBillionaire Mahalo Nui Loa!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
BILLIONAIRE, Shelby Pikachu
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Shelby  Billionaire 
Tayo Ang Sambayanan
U.S. Senador
hawaiiankingdom.org
presidentbillionaire@gmail.com
(808) 747-7336
 Bilang inyong Senador ng U.S., lumalaban ako na kakampi ninyo araw-araw upang 
mabawasan ang mga gastos at gawing mas mahusay ang buhay para sa mga tao at pamilya sa Hawaii. 
Nagsusumikap man na palawakin ang mga pagkakataon sa edukasyon para sa ating mga anak, 
palakasin ang mga kritikal na programa tulad ng Social Security at Medicare para sa ating mga kaanak, 
o kumpirmahin ang mga patas at obhetibong mga hukom, nakatuon ako sa pagtiyak na ang ating 
mga komunidad ay may suporta na nararapat sa kanila. Sa panahon ko sa Senado, bilyun-bilyon ang 
naipuhunan natin sa paggawa ng makabago sa imprastraktura ng ating bansa, pagbaba ng mga gastos 
sa pangangalaga sa kalusugan para sa ating mga kaanak, at gumawa ng makasaysayang aksyon 
upang labanan ang pagbabago ng klima. Tumatakbo ako para sa muling pagkakahalal upang buuin ang 
pag-unlad na nagawa natin at ipagtanggol ang ating demokrasya. Karangalan kong katawanin kayo sa 
Senado, at buong kababaang-loob kong hinihiling ang inyong boto sa halalan na ito.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HIRONO, Mazie K.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Mazie K. Hirono 
Partido Demokratiko
U.S. Senador
mazieforhawaii.com
info@mazieforhawaii.com
(808) 453-0555
 Para Manalo, nagpapatakbo ng kampanyang nakasentro sa Diyos, na ginagampanan ang 
sarili ko bilang isang Kristiyanong Maginoo habang ibinabalik ang moralidad sa ating pampublikong 
diskurso, Pagtigil sa walang katapusang mga digmaan, Pagprotekta sa mga karapatan ng magulang at 
mga mag-aaral mula sa propaganda tungkol sa ideolohiya ng kasarian, at pagwawasto sa ating fiscal 
ship upang ang mga nagtatrabahong pamilya ay may pagkakataon na lumago at umunlad. Ama ng 8, 
lolo sa 13, beterano ng USMC at Desert Storm, 16 na taong Kinatawan ng Estado ng Hawaii.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MCDERMOTT, Bob
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Robert C. McDermott 
Republika Partido
U.S. Senador
www.votemcdermott.com
Representativemcdermott@gmail.com
(808) 371-4605
 Ang pangalan ko ay Emma Jane Avila Pohlman. Isa akong Earth Lawyer at Tagapamagitan. 
Nag-aral ako ng Philosophy and Political Science sa University of Southern California (USC) at 
nakuha ko ang aking Juris Doctor sa Loyola Law School. Naniniwala ako sa mabuting pamahalaan at 
pundamental na saligang prinsipyo. Ang pangunahing pinagtutuunan ko ay ang tubig. Kailangan ng 
lahat ng Tao ng Hawaii na magkaroon ng malinis na tubig. Ito ay pangunahing responsibilidad ng ating 
pamahalaan.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
POHLMAN, Emma Jane Avila
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Emma Jane Avila Pohlman 
Partido Berde
U.S. Senador
emmajanehawaii@icloud.com
(808) 960-76802024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan15Kinatawan ng U.S. I
 Aloha. Sa panahong ito na puno ng kahirapan, hindi natin kailangan ng higit pang 
pagkakahati-hati at kawalan ng pagkilos. Kailangan natin ng matibay at matatag na pamunuan para sa 
mga tunay na solusyon sa mga tunay na hamon. Ipinanganak at pinalaki ako sa Hilo nang may malalim 
na ugat sa buong Hawai’i. Mahaba na ang naging karera ko sa batas at negosyo, walong taon na ako sa 
lehislatura ng Hawai’i, at may mapagmahal akong pamilya. Sampung taon na akong may kataasan ng 
tungkulin sa Kongreso. Hawak ko ang mga pangunahing posisyon tulad ng ating House Appropriations 
Committee na nagpopondo sa ating pederal na gobyerno. Ipinaglaban ko ang mga pangunahing 
pagsulong para sa ating bansa at upang malutas ang mga krisis kagaya ng COVID, Red Hill at Maui 
para sa ating Hawai’i. Dati pa man, naniniwala na akong kaya at kailangan nating maghanap ng mas 
magandang kinabukasan nang sama-sama. Hindi tayo magsisigawan. Tapat lang nating haharapin 
ang ating mga hamon, habang nagsusumikap at ginagawa ang ating trabaho. Iyon ang kailangan. Iyon 
ang ginagawa ko. Iyon ang iniaalok ko. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong patuloy na suporta, 
Mahalo.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
CASE, Ed
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Edward E. Case 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan sa U.S., Distrito I
www.edcase.com
edcase@edcase.com
(808) 546-9509
 Aloha! Ako si Patrick Largey, at tumatakbo ako para sa Kongreso ng 1st Congressional 
District ng Hawaii. Ipinanganak at pinalaki ako sa Hudson, Massachusetts, ngunit itinuring ko 
nang tahanan ang Hawaii mula nang madestino ako rito sa US Air Force noong 1985. Mahal ko ang 
mamamayan, ang lupain at ang mga tradisyon nito. Sinusuportahan at ipinagtatanggol ko ang 
Konstitusyon ng US. Ako ay maka-Buhay, maka-2nd Amendment, maka-militar ng US at Pagpapatupad 
ng Batas. Naglingkod ako nang 23 taon sa militar ng US at Pagpapatupad ng Batas. Nasa puso ko 
talaga ang paglilingkod sa mamamayan noon pa, kaya tumatakbo ako para sa posisyon. Mahal ko 
ang ating bansa, pero hindi ako sang-ayon sa agenda at mga mapanirang polisiya ng kasalukuyang 
administrasyon. Karapatan ng mamamayan ng Hawaii ang mas maayos na administrasyon. Kailangang 
ayusin ang ating kaperahan, at itigil ang paggasta ng bilyong dolyar sa mga bansang hindi naman tayo 
gusto.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
LARGEY, Patrick C.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Patrick C. Largey 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan sa U.S., Distrito I
freedom4hawaii.com
patricklargey4congress@gmail.com
(808) 304-4006
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan16Kinatawan ng U.S. II
 Ipinanganak sa Honolulu, nakatira sa Maui. Ang aking degree sa Economics ay nagbigay 
sa akin ng background upang obserbahan at suriin ang lumalalang kondisyon sa pananalapi na 
kinakaharap nating lahat. Mayroong paglubog sa kapangyarihan sa pagbili. Ang isang kahihinatnan 
ay desperasyon habang sinusubukan ng mga tao na pakainin ang kanilang mga pamilya. Ako ay 
ginagabayan ng pagpaparaya, pagiging sibil, at ng Aloha Spirit. Titindig ako para sa mga tao sa ating 
komunidad. Mayroong dalawang pangunahing partidong pampulitika at upang magkaroon ng tunay 
na upuan sa mesa, kailangang magkaroon ng bipartisan na presensya ang Hawaii sa Washington. 
Magiging ako ang taong iyon. Ang aking Kampanya ay kailangan ng mga boluntaryo. Hinihiling ang 
mga donor ng pinansiya. Ihalal ninyo ako nang sa gayon ay mapaglingkuran ko ang inyong mga interes!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
BOND, Steve
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Steven R. Bond 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan sa U.S., Distrito II
votestevebond.com
votestevebond@gmail.com
(808) 756-3638
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MEYER, Randall Kelly
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Randall Kelly Meyer 
Hindi Partidista
Kinatawan sa U.S., Distrito II
randallmeyer2000@yahoo.com
(541) 521-4639
 Mula Pāpaʻaloa sa Hawaiʻi Island, hanggang Puʻunēnē sa Maui, hanggang Puhi sa Kauaʻi, 
hanggang sa aking hometown na Kāneʻohe–itinuring nang tahanan ng aming pamilya ang Ikalawang 
Distrito ng Kongreso ng Hawaiʻi nang limang henerasyon. Para sa akin, personal ang paglilingkod sa 
Kongreso at ang mahalaga ay tiyaking makakakita ang susunod na henerasyon ng kinabukasan sa 
lugar na ito na minamahal natin. Ibig sabihin, pagtitiyak na nagtatayo tayo ng pabahay na abot-kaya 
para sa mga tao. Pagsisikap upang tiyakin ang access sa pangangalaga sa kalusugan at mga serbisyo 
sa kalusugang pangkaisipan. Paglikha ng mga oportunidad sa edukasyon at magagandang trabaho. 
Pagpapababa ng presyo ng lahat, mula sa pagkain hanggang sa utilidad, hanggang sa gasolina at 
inireresetang gamot. Dala ko ang aking pag-aalala bilang ina sa Kongreso upang magawa ang dapat 
gawin at maalagaan ang ating mamamayan at komunidad gaya ng pamilya. Marami na tayong nakamit 
nang magkasama, ngunit marami pang kailangang gawin. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong 
konsiderasyon at boto.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TOKUDA, Jill N.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jill N. Tokuda 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan sa U.S., Distrito II
tokudaforhawaii.com
jill@tokudaforhawaii.com
 Si Aaron Toman ay pinalaki sa Oahu at nabuhay sa halos lahat ng kanyang buhay nang 
tumanda na sa bahagi ng Hilo ng Big Island. Napagtanto ni Aaron na walang magpapakitang-gilas 
na ayusin ang ating pulitika, kung gusto niyang makakita ng pagbabago, kailangan niyang maging 
pagbabago! Nahahati sa tatlong seksyon ang 11 point platform ni Aaron: Ayusin ang Kongreso, Ayusin 
ang Bansa, at Ayusin ang Hawaii; na ang pinakamahalagang punto ay ang Mga Limitasyon sa Termino 
ng Kongreso, Mga Karapatan sa Pagboto para sa Mga Teritoryo ng US, Pag-amyenda sa Jones Act upang 
ibukod ang Hawaii, at pag-alis ng Kwalipikadong Immunity mula sa Sistema ng Hustisya. Hinihikayat 
kayong suriin ang buong platform ni Aaron sa kanyang website, LimitThePower.com. 2024 ang magiging 
taon kung kailan tatanggihan ng mga Amerikano ang dalawang partidong sistema! Maging bahagi ng 
kasaysayan sa pamamagitan ng pagpili ng unang Libertarian Congressman ng Hawaii at ang unang 
House Minority Leader ng bansa mula sa isang ika-3 partido! Si Aaron Toman ay ang 3rd Option at 1st 
Choice ng Hawaii!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TOMAN, Aaron
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Aaron M. Toman 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Kinatawan sa U.S., Distrito II
www.limitthepower.com
limitthepowerhi@gmail.com
(808) 756-0790
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan17Senador ng Estado Distrito 3
 Lubos akong nagpapasalamat sa pribilehiyong maglingkod bilang Senador para sa 
Distrito 3 mula pa noong 2018, isang pagkakataon na natatanging naglagay sa akin upang tumulong na 
matugunan ang mga pangangailangan ng ating komunidad, kung saan may malalim akong ugat. Mula 
sa pagtaguyod ng pinabuting access sa abot-kayang pabahay, pagpapalakas ng sistema ng edukasyon 
ng Estado, at pagtataguyod ng sari-saring uri ng ekonomiya, hanggang sa pagtataguyod para sa 
mga inisyatiba sa mga grassroot, ang aking pangunahing pagtuon ay nananatili sa pagpapalakas 
ng boses ng Kona, Kaʻū, at Volcano sa Kapitolyo. Bilang Majority Leader ng Senado, epektibo kong 
ginamit ang aking tungkulin sa pamumuno upang matiyak ang katarungan para sa Isla ng Hawai’i. 
Sa inyong suporta, umaasa akong patuloy kong ipaglalaban ang mga patakarang nagpapasigla sa 
lahat ng residente at nagpapanatili sa natatanging paraan ng pamumuhay ng ating Estado. Nananatili 
akong nakatuon sa patuloy na paglilingkod sa Distrito 3 ng Senado, na naghahatid ng mga resulta na 
magbibigay-pakinabang sa ating Estado para sa mga susunod na henerasyon. Ipinapauna ko ang aking 
mahalo para sa inyong tiwala at patuloy na pakikipagtulungan.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KANUHA, Dru Mamo
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Dru Mamo Kanuha 
Partido Demokratiko
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 3
drukanuha.com
info@drukanuha.com
(808) 329-4067
 Niyayakap ang panibagong yugto ng politika sa Hawaii nang may isip! Gawin natin ang 
daan para sa positibong pagbabago, kalinawan, at kaunlaran. Kapag sama-sama, makakapagbuo tayo 
ng mas maliwanag na kinabukasan para sa minamahal nating mga isla.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SULLIVAN, Kurt (Sulli)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kurt E. Sullivan 
Republika Partido
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 3
kurt.sullivan@sulburk.com
(808) 300-9809
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan18Senador ng Estado Distrito 6
 Aloha! Ako si Angus McKelvey at mahalo ko kayo at ang inyong ‘ohana para sa 
pribilehiyong maglingkod bilang inyong Senador ng Estado. Dito ipinanganak at lumaki, ang aking 
tungkulin ay protektahan ang Hawaii at ang pinakamahalagang mapagkukunan nito - ang ating mga 
tao. Nakatuon ako sa abot-kayang pabahay; kaluwagan sa buwis sa gitnang uri; at napapanatiling mga 
kasanayan upang mapangalagaan ang ating kapaligiran at tulungan ang mga pamilya na umunlad. 
Hinamon ko ang mga desisyon ng malalayong kapangyarihan at patuloy na humihiling ng transparency 
at pagsasama mula sa ating pamahalaan. Naninindigan ako sa mga residente ng Maui habang tinitiis 
ng ating isla ang patuloy na pakikibaka na may kaugnayan sa Lahaina Wildfire. Sa inyong boto, patuloy 
akong magsisikap na makipag-ugnayan at malutas ang mga pagsisikap at burukrasya ng pamahalaan 
na nakakaapekto sa atin; at siguraduhin ang mga pondo na kailangan para sa pagbawi ng Maui. 
Nakatuon ako sa ating kaligtasan, pagpapagaling, at katatagan. Sama-sama tayong babangon mula 
sa abo at titiyakin na magkakaroon ng mas maliwanag, mas ligtas, at napapanatiling kinabukasan ang 
ating mga tao.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MCKELVEY, Angus L.K.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Angus L.K. McKelvey 
Partido Demokratiko
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 6
mac4senate6@gmail.com
(808) 870-8644
 Gusto mo bang makitang mapanatili ng Maui ang tunay na kagandahan ng ALOHA at 
mayamang kulturang Hawaiian? Gusto mo rin bang magkaroon ng accessible na pabahay, masaganang 
yutilidad, at trabahong may mataas na suweldo? Hindi natin kailangang mamili; pwede nating makamit 
lahat ito! Iboto mo ako at sisiguraduhin kong hindi natin ibebenta ang magandang isla na ito sa mga 
interes ng korporasyon o mga dayuhang mamumuhunan na maliit ang respeto sa ʻāina at sa mga 
taong naninirahan dito. Wala tayong dapat sayangin, sisiguraduhin kong maririnig ang inyong mga 
boses, ang agaran ay ngayon na! Nangangako akong regular akong makikipag-usap sa KOMUNIDAD, 
magkakaroon ng COMPASSION para sa inyong mga isyu at gagamit ng COMMON SENSE para 
makahanap ng mga solusyon sa lehislatura. Lahat tayo ay gumawa ng positibong aksyon, mayroon 
akong enerhiya, hilig at pangako na panatilihin ang Maui nō ka ‘oi, Iboto si Sheila Walker. Dapat Unahin 
Ang Komunidad Ng Maui!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
WALKER, Sheila
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Sheila A. Walker 
Republika Partido
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 6
votesheilawalker.com
votesheilawalker@gmail.com
(808) 344-8644
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan19Senador ng Estado Distrito 7
 Aloha, Ang pangalan ko ay Lynn Pualani DeCoite at hinihingi ko ang inyong suporta upang 
maglingkod ng isa pang termino bilang inyong Senador ng Estado para sa Distrito 7 . Ipinanganak 
Sa Honolulu at lumaki sa Molokaʻi, ang pagpapalaki sa akin sa bukid ng pamilya ay naglatag ng 
pundasyon sa pagtuon sa agrikultura at pangangalaga sa kapaligiran. Sa pagtutok sa malinaw, 
pananagutan, at pagiging napapabilang, nakatuon ako sa pagkatawan sa magkakaibang boses 
at pangangailangan ng ating komunidad. Nakatuon ako sa pagpapahusay ng buhay ng lahat ng 
aking nasasakupan. Naglilingkod bilang Assistant Majority Floor Leader at Tagapangulo ng Komite 
sa Enerhiya, Pagpapaunlad ng Ekonomiya, at Turismo, patuloy kong uunahin ang pagpapalakas ng 
produksyon ng pagkain, pagtataguyod ng abot-kayang pabahay, at pangangalaga sa kapaligiran. 
Sa mga mapanghamong panahong ito, ang pagpapalakas ng boses ng ating komunidad ang aking 
misyon. Mahalaga ang boses mo, at narito ako para tiyaking maririnig ito. Hinihiling ko ang inyong 
suporta upang hayaan akong magpatuloy na maglingkod sa inyo bilang Senador ng Estado para sa 
Distrito 7 .
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DECOITE, Lynn Pualani
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Lynn P. DeCoite 
Partido Demokratiko
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 7
lynndecoite.org
friendsoflynndecoite@gmail.com
 Isinilang sa Pacific Island ng Guam, natutunan ko ang halaga ng pagsusumikap sa murang 
edad sa pamamagitan ng pagtulong sa pagpapatakbo ng maliit na tindahan at sakahan ng aming 
pamilya. Pagsapit ng 16, nasa workforce na ako, pinahuhusay ang magandang etika sa trabaho na 
nagbibigay halaga sa mga taong nakakasalamuha ko. Pagsapit ng 19, pinangasiwaan ko ang apat na 
tindahan na nagbibigay sa akin ng karanasan sa pamumuno. Noong 2005, sumali ako sa USCG, nagsilbi 
ng anim na taon na nakatalaga sa Oahu. Noong 2013, sumali ako sa lokal na manggagawa sa Maui at 
sa aking unang business trip sa Maui ay nagdulot ng malalim na koneksyon sa nakapreserba nitong 
kagandahan, na nakapagpapaalaala sa Guam. Magmula noon, ako ay naging isang Safety Officer, Safety 
Director, Safety Specialist, at ngayon ay ang Operations Manager para sa County ng Maui. Ang Maui ang 
aking tahanan, tinatanggap ang kultura nito at nakatuon sa pagpreserba nito. Sa pagpagtatanggol man 
sa mga tanawin at komunidad, pinagpala ako sa bawat sandali sa paraisong ito.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MACARAEG, Gabby
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Gabby Junior C. Macaraeg 
Republika Partido
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 7
gabbymacaraeg.maui@gmail.com
(808) 657-3175
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan20Senador ng Estado Distrito 12
 Aloha, ang pangalan ko ay Shotaro Dabbs. Ipinanganak at lumaki sa Waikiki, tulad 
ng marami pang iba ay naharap din ako sa mga paghihirap noong bata pa ako, kabilang ang 
pagkakulong ng aking ama at kawalan ng tirahan. Ako ay pinalaki ng isang masipag na nag-iisang 
ina na nagtatrabaho ng mahabang oras upang mabuhay. Ang mga karanasang ito ay nagpalalim sa 
aking pangako sa ating komunidad. Tumatakbo ako upang kumatawan sa inyo sa Senado ng Estado 
para sa Distrito 12. Ang aking mga pangunahing prayoridad ay ang pagharap sa kawalan ng tirahan, 
pagpapahusay ng kaligtasan ng publiko, at pagpapabuti ng edukasyon. Sama-sama, maaari tayong 
bumuo ng isang mas maliwanag na kinabukasan para sa Hawaii sa pamamagitan ng pagpapalawak 
ng mga serbisyo sa kalusugan ng isip, pagpapahusay ng mga hakbangin sa kaligtasan ng publiko, 
at pagbibigay sa mga guro ng higit na awtonomiya upang pasiglahin ang indibidwal na pag-aaral. 
Naniniwala ako sa mga collaborative na solusyon at pakikipag-ugnayan sa komunidad upang 
matugunan nang epektibo ang ating mga hamon. Mahalo sa inyong suporta.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DABBS, Shotaro
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Shotaro L. Dabbs 
Republika Partido
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 12
shotarodabbs.com
shotarodabbs2024@gmail.com
(808) 548-1362
 Bilang Demokratikong Senador, naging karangalan kong mapaglingkuran kayo sa 
Kakaako, Ala Moana, Moiliili, McCully, at Waikiki. Nasa Gabinete ako ni Gobernador Waihee bilang 
labor department deputy at personnel director; sa Judiciary bilang courts administrator; at sa UH 
bilang assistant vice president. Maraming malalang problema ang napakaganda nating komunidad 
-- kawalan ng tirahan, krimen at ingay, pagtaas ng lebel ng tubig-dagat, limitadong may halaman 
na lupain, nangangailangan ng tulong ang kupuna at keiki. Sa ngayon, nalampasan na natin ang 
ingay; dinadala natin ang mga walang tirahan sa mas maaayos na lugar; nagpatupad ng “Ligtas” na 
pagkontrol sa krimen; pinagbabawal ang mga magagarbong mataas na gusali sa dalampasigan ng 
Kakaako. Kailangan pa rin natin ng mga komprehensibong solusyon na magwawakas sa kawalan ng 
tirahan gamit ang opisina sa buong estado para sa walang tirahan; magtayo ng abot-kayang pabahay; 
magpatupad ng mga batas laban sa paulit-ulit na marahas na nagkakasala; pigilan ang labis na pag-
iingay; pondohan ang in-place care para sa kupuna at mga career pathway para sa keiki, at; magplano 
laban sa pagtaas ng tubig-dagat. Nandito ako para paglingkuran kayo. Sama-sama tayong magbuo ng 
mas maunlad na komunidad at estado. Mangyaring “Iboto si Sharon.”
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MORIWAKI, Sharon Y.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Sharon Y. Moriwaki 
Partido Demokratiko
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 12
sharonmoriwaki.com
sharonymoriwaki@gmail.com
(808) 428-1348
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan21Senador ng Estado Distrito 16
 Nararapat matanggap ng Hawaii ang mas mainam kaysa sa natatanggap nito. Ipinanganak 
at lumaki sa Hawaii, ito ang aking tahanan at ng aking pinalawak na pamilya. Nakakita ako ng 
napakalaking pagbabago sa buong buhay ko—marami ang nakamamangha at, sa kasamaang-palad, 
marami ang lumalala. Dahil nanirahan ako bilang isang nasa hustong gulang sa mainland sa loob ng 
30 taon, sa Japan sa loob ng 13, at sa Canada sa loob ng 1 taon, naiintindihan ko ang mga pananaw 
ng ibang mga lokasyon at ibang tao. Ipinakilala sa akin ng aking ama ang Konstitusyon ng U.S. noong 
aking kamusmusan at namangha ako sa edad kong iyon sa proteksyon nito sa mga karapatan ng 
indibidwal at minorya. Tamang-tama ito sa musmos kong isipan. Ang mga karapatang iyon ay higit 
na nanganib kaysa dati (CBDC, ang mga kamakailang sapilitang bakuna, sapilitang mask, at higit pa.). 
Ipaglalaban ko ang kalayaan ng mga tao, kahit na ako lang sa lehislatura ang gagawa nito sa isang 
partikular na isyu. Para sa karagdagang impormasyon, tingnan ang aking paparating na website.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
BEEKMAN, Pat
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Patricia Y. Beekman 
Republika Partido
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 16
kaaina@mac.com
(808) 221-9695
 Aloha! Ako si Brandon Elefante, kasalukuyang miyembro ng Senado ng Estado ng Hawai’i, 
Distrito 16 (‘Aiea, Pearl City, at Hālawa). Isang malaking karangalan sa aking buhay ang maglingkod sa 
pampublikong opisina sa nakalipas na 10 taon. Nitong nakaraang taon, masigasig akong nagtrabaho 
kasama ang aking mga kasamahan sa lehislatura ng estado upang tugunan ang mga kritikal na isyu, 
mula sa pagpapabuti ng access sa abot-kayang pabahay, pagsuporta sa mga kritikal na proyekto 
sa imprastraktura, at pagtataguyod para sa isang mas malinis na kapaligiran. Sama-sama, nakamit 
natin ang mga makabuluhang milestone, ngunit marami pa tayong dapat gawin. Sa buong taon 
ko ng serbisyo publiko, natutunan ko ang kahalagahan ng pakikinig sa inyong mga alalahanin, 
pakikipagtulungan sa iba’t ibang linya ng partido, at walang-pagod na pagtatrabaho upang humanap 
ng mga solusyon sa karaniwang bagay sa ating mga pinakamabibigat na hamon. Naniniwala akong 
ang aking karanasan, dedikasyon, at pagnanasa para sa ating komunidad ang nagbibigay-dahilan 
upang ako ang maging pinakaakmang magpatuloy na kumatawan sa inyong mga interes sa Senado ng 
Estado. Mahalo.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ELEFANTE, Brandon
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Brandon J.C. Elefante 
Partido Demokratiko
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 16
www.brandonelefante.com
info@brandonelefante.com
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan22Senador ng Estado Distrito 18
 Aloha, ako si Senador Michelle Kidani at tumatakbo ako upang muling maihalal sa Senado 
ng Estado ng Hawaii. Mahalo (salamat) nang marami sa pagpapahintulot sa aking paglingkuran kayo 
bilang inyong Senador mula 2009. Kasalukuyan akong naglilingkod bilang Vice President ng Hawai’i 
State Senate at Chair ng Komite sa Edukasyon. Kung pahihintulutan ninyo ako, nais kong paglingkuran 
ang ating distrito nang isa pang termino para maipagpatuloy ang pagsuporta sa ating Superintendent 
at Kagawaran ng Edukasyon para matiyak na makukuha ng ating mga anak ang pinakadelikadad na 
edukasyong maiaalok ng Hawai’i.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KIDANI, Michelle N.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Michelle N. Kidani 
Partido Demokratiko
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 18
mnkidani.com
mnkidani@gmail.com
(808) 754-4442
 36 na taon na ang nakalipas, nakatakas ako sa komunismo kasama ang aking asawa. 
Edukado (Masters sa nuclear physics at engineering), hindi kami pumunta sa USA para sa mga 
handout, ngunit nagsumikap na magkaroon ng maunlad na buhay para sa aming pamilya, at 
kinabukasan ng mga anak ng aming mga anak. Ngayon, alam namin na posible ito. Gayunpaman, ang 
trajectory na kontrolado ng mga tao sa ating kasalukuyang gobyerno ay sumisira ng mga buhay. Ang 
bawat bata ay patungo sa mas maikling buhay kaysa sa kanilang mga magulang. Kailangan natin ng 
bottom up na paggalaw ng mga nagtatrabahong tao para baligtarin ang kalakaran na ito. May mga 
tunay na solusyon (hindi “Green Deal” scam) para sa sariling kakayahan sa paggawa ng pagkain, 
enerhiya, abot-kayang pabahay. Walang pamilyang nagtatrabaho ang dapat nahihirapan sa pananalapi 
o mapipilitang umalis sa magandang estadong ito. Kakatawanin muli sila. Bilang isang scientist na 
nakikipag-palitan ng ideya sa mga eksperto at sa inyong suporta na nagkakaisa, pipigilan natin ang 
mga korporasyon na may sakim na espesyal na interes na sinisira ang ating mga pulitiko, sinisira ang 
sistema ng halalan, at sinisira ang mga Hawaiian. Ibabalik ko ang isip, katuwiran, at Aloha sa mesa ng 
pakikipagnegosasyon. Mahalo.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SVRCINA, Emil
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Emil  Svrcina 
Republika Partido
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 18
EmilClearChoice.com
emilsvrcina@gmail.com
(808) 256-6473
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan23Senador ng Estado Distrito 22
 Aloha, ako si Samantha DeCorte. Katutubong Hawaiian ako at malalim akong nakaugat sa 
aking pananampalataya at kultura. Kamakailan lang naming ipinagdiwang ng aking asawa ang aming 
27th anniversary, at magkasama naming pinalaki ang 3 mahuhusay na anak na lalaki. Noong 2022, 
tumakbo ako para sa Senado ng Estado Distrito 22 ng Hawaii at natalo ng 40 boto. Iyon ang pinakadikit 
na laban noong halalang 2022. Mula noon, nagtrabaho na ako sa parehong sangay ng Hawaii State 
Legislature, kabilang ang House of Representatives at sa kasalukuyan ay sa Senado, at nakapagtamo 
na ako ng mahalagang karanasan sa polisiya at nakabuo ng mahahalagang relasyon. Bilang resulta, 
handang-handa na akong akuin ang mga responsibilidad ng tungkulin na ito. Naging miyembro ako 
ng lupon ng kapitbahayan ng ating distrito at inihalal ako ng mga kapwa ko miyembro ng lupon para 
maglingkod bilang Tagapangulo. Pakibisita ang aking website para sa higit pang impormasyon: www.
SamanthaDeCorte.com. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong boto.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DECORTE, Samantha
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Samantha M. DeCorte 
Republika Partido
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 22
www.SamanthaDecorte.com
samantha@samanthadecorte.com
(808) 306-9604
 Aloha! Ang pangalan ko ay Cedric Asuega Gates, at ako ay isang habambuhay na 
residente ng 96792 na komunidad. Isa akong taas-noong alumnus ng Kamaile Elementary, ng 
Wai’anae Intermediate, ng Wai’anae High School, ng YouthBuild Honolulu, at ng Leeward Community 
College-Wai’anae Moku. Kasalukuyan akong naglilingkod bilang Kinatawan ng Estado ng Distrito 
45, na sumasaklaw sa Mākua, Mākaha, at Wai’anae. Dati akong nagsilbi sa ating komunidad bilang 
Tagapangulo ng Wai’anae Coast Neighborhood Board at naging miyembro ng Lupon ng mga Direktor 
para sa Wai’anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. Mula nang mahalal sa opisina, nakakuha ako ng 
mahigit $250 milyon na pondo para sa ating mga kalsada, paaralan, imprastraktura, parke ng estado, 
pag-iwas sa sunog, pangangalaga sa kalusugan, walang tirahan at higit pa. Taun-taon bilang isang 
mambabatas, nakapagpapasa ako ng mga panukalang batas para mapabuti ang ating pamumuhay sa 
96792, at plano kong ipagpatuloy ang paggawa ng mga tulad nito bilang inyong susunod na Senador. 
Buong kababaang-loob kong hinihingi ang boto mo at ng iyong Ohana.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
GATES, Cedric Asuega
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Cedric S. Gates 
Partido Demokratiko
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 22
CEDRICFORHAWAII.COM
CEDRIC4HAWAII@GMAIL.COM
(808) 457-6385
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan24Senador ng Estado Distrito 23
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
AWA, Brenton
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Brenton P. Awa 
Republika Partido
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 23
friendsofbrentonawa@gmail.com
(808) 454-3017
 Si Ben Shafer ay isang ikaapat na henerasyong Hawaiian mula sa Kahana Valley. Isang 
matagal nang tagapagtaguyod ng komunidad, isa siya sa mga pinuno sa paglaban sa pagpapalawak 
ng Turtle Bay Resort. Nagtatrabaho si Ben para sa International Alliance Theatrical and Stage Employees 
and Film I.A.T.S.E. Local 665, at naglilingkod siya sa Oʻahu Island Burial Council. Naniniwala si Ben 
na mahalaga ang integridad at ang pagkakaisa ang daan patungo sa tagumpay. Ang pakikiramay 
at paggalang ni Ben sa iba ay nakakatulong sa paggabay sa kanyang gawain. Ang ating malaki at 
magkakaibang distrito ay nangangailangan ng isang aktibong pinuno na epektibong kakatawan sa 
lahat ng ating mga komunidad. Si Ben ay magsisilbing Senador ng pono na kailangan at nararapat sa 
ating distrito. Ang mataas na halaga ng pamumuhay ay lalong nagiging mahirap upang makayanan. 
Nangangailangan ang pamahalaan ng higit na pananagutan at kaunting pag-aaksaya. Dapat nating 
protektahan ang ating kalidad ng buhay, iwasan ang labis na pagpapaunlad, protektahan ang ating 
mga lupang pang-agrikultura, dagdagan ang produksyon ng lokal na pagkain, panatilihin ang ating 
mga kalsada, pangalagaan ang kupuna at keiki. Aloha, Lōkahi, Pono.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SHAFER, Ben
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Benjamin D. Shafer 
Partido Demokratiko
Senador ng Estado, Distrito 23
bdshafer@gmail.com
(808) 388-5777
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan25Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 3
 “Gawin Natin Ang Mas Mahusay!” Ipawalang-bisa ang Jones Act. Linisin ang Kapulungan. 
Napapanatiling Kasaganaan sa pamamagitan ng Kalayaan. Kinakatawan ko ang organikong 
homesteading na komunidad ng Big Island. Kasama ninyo ako sa inyong mga pangarap at pare-pareho 
tayo ng nararanasan sa ating buhay. Marahil ay nakita n’yo na akong nagpapatugtog ng musika sa 
mga lansangan, naglilingkod sa mga nangangailangan, at nakikinig sa mga tao mula sa lahat ng 
antas ng pamumuhay. Naniniwala akong magkakapareho ang mga ninanais nating bagay-bagay: 
mas masagana, mas ligtas, at mas malayang mga komunidad na may kalayaang protektado mula sa 
panghihimasok ng pamahalaan. Sama-sama, magpapadala tayo ng isang malinaw na mensahe sa 
lumulugsong dalawang-partidong sistema: “Pagbutihin.” Kung ipadadala n’yo ako upang maglingkod 
sa Kapulungan ng mga Kinatawan ng Estado, magsusumikap ako para sa inyo. Babasahin ko nang may 
pag-iingat ang bawat panukala. Ang aking karanasan sa parliamentary procedure, legislative review, at 
legal na teorya ay magtitiyak na mas magagamit ko ang posisyon kaysa sa ibang kandidato; hindi ko 
kayo pababayaan. Pagbutihin Natin.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MARTIN, Austin D. (Shiloh)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Austin D. Martin 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 3
libertarianhawaii.com
rapidreason@gmail.com
(940) 368-0364
 Aloha East Hawai‘i! Ang aking numero unong prayoridad ay patuloy na gagawing mas 
madaling matugunan ang mga pangangailangan para sa mga lokal na residente. Gumawa kami ng 
ilang hakbang sa tamang direksyon kamakailan at gagawin ko ang aking makakaya upang ipagpatuloy 
ang momentum na ito tungo sa isang mas patas na kodigo sa buwis at mas maraming pagkakataon 
para sa parehong mga kabataang pamilya at kupuna. Bilang karagdagan sa paggawa ko sa abot ng 
aking makakaya na mapababa ang gastos ng pamumuhay at lumikha ng mas kanais-nais na mga 
kondisyon sa ekonomiya, ipagpapatuloy ko ang aming pagpupursigeng baguhin ang pangangalagang 
pangkalusugan sa East Hawai’i sa pamamagitan ng karagdagang pagpapalawak ng Hilo Medical Center 
at mga bagong pasilidad para sa Puna. Mahalo para sa inyong pagsasaalang-alang at salamat sa 
inyong pagboto!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TODD, Christopher L.T.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Christopher L.T. Todd 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 3
www.christoshirotodd.org
christmastodd@gmail.com
(808) 825-8636
 Aloha, Ako, si Kanoa Hauoli Wilson ay tumatakbo para sa kinatawan ng estado para 
sa distrito 3 bilang isang kandidatong Republikano. Kanoa Wilson (808)-365-3033 kanoaw@gmail.
com Bilang kinatawan para sa distrito 3, nais kong magtuon sa mga isyung kinakaharap na tila 
napapabayaan habang nagtutuon ng pansin sa kalokohan gaya ng pagdedeklara sa Shaka bilang 
opisyal na kilos ng Hawaii o mga isyu na katulad niyan. Bago tumira sa Hawaii county, dati akong isang 
marinero sa pangangalakal at nagkaroon ng kapinsalaan na nagtapos sa aking karera, mula noon ay 
nagtayo ako ng isang maliit na negosyo na tumutulong sa mga taong nangangailangan kasama ang 
pagsisikap na mag-host ng mga kaganapan para sa mga hindi gaanong pinalad sa pamamagitan ng 
mga libreng kaganapan sa komunidad. Salamat sa inyong pagsasaalang-alang
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
WILSON, Kanoa
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kanoa Hauoli Wilson 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 3
kanoaw@gmail.com
(808) 365-3033
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan26Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 4
 Ipinanganak at lumaki sa Hawaii, at isang Ina ng 3, ako ay likas na mahabagin at 
nakikiramay. Ako ay makabago at gumagamit ng may common sense na diskarte sa paghahanap 
ng mga solusyon. Mula noong bata pa ako, naglingkod na ako kasama ng iba’t ibang non-profit na 
organisasyon at pinamunuan ko ang maraming kaganapan para sa komunidad upang makatulong 
na magdala ng pag-asa at solusyon sa ating mga tao. Bilang isang residente ng magandang distrito 
4, inaasahan kong ipagpatuloy iyon, at hindi lamang maging isang boses, ngunit isang mahusay 
na tagapakinig na kailangan ng komunidad na ito. Kailangan natin ng mga batas na susuporta sa 
ating mga tao. Hindi iyong magtataboy sa kanila. Kailangan natin ng mga mambabatas na nakikinig. 
Maraming batas ang naipasa sa lehislatura na hindi sumusuporta sa kapakanan ng ating mga tao, at sa 
kasamaang-palad, ang ilan sa mga batas na iyon ay suportado ng mismong mga taong binoto natin sa 
puwesto. Ako ay isang Babae na mayroong isang salita at maaaring pagkatiwalaan ng buhay ng ating 
distrito. Ako ay pag-asa.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HO, Keikilani
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Keikilani G.P. Ho 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 4
keikilanikealoha@gmail.com
(808) 437-0670
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ILAGAN, Greggor
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Greggor Johanson P . Ilagan 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 4
voteilagan.com
greggorilagan@gmail.com
(808) 557-5819
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan27Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 5
 Panahon na para itanim ang mga binhi ng nakabubuo na pagbabago sa pulitika. 
Nangangailangan ito ng pag-iisip sa labas ng mga hangganan ng Partido pampulitika. Bagama’t 
ang mga pananaw ko ay pinakamahusay na naaayon sa mga Libertarian (mas maraming kalayaan, 
mas kaunting pamahalaan), ako ay karaniwang nagsasarili. Ang isyu, hindi ang Partido, ang dapat 
magsulong ng mga pagsisikap sa pagpapahusay. Ang sumusunod ay isang napakaikling buod ng 
mga layunin ko. (www.ffogel.net para sa higit pa.) Mga Buwis – i-convert ang buwis sa kita ng estado 
sa mga pantay na porsyento, alisin ang buwis sa pagbebenta sa pagkain at gamot. Kapaligiran – higit 
na pagsisikap sa pagbabawal at pag-aalis ng mga mapaminsalang species, at magbigay ng buong 
serbisyo ng mga istasyon ng recycle (mga tambakan). Halalan – ipatupad ang pagboto online. 
Pampulitika – mga limitasyon sa termino para sa mga pulitiko, at pahabain ang sesyon ng pambatasan 
mula limang buwan hanggang sampu, nang walang pagtaas sa suweldo ng mga pulitiko. Edukasyon 
– buwagin ang lupon ng paaralan ng estado na pabor sa hiwalay na mga lupon ng isla, sistema ng 
voucher. Mga kulungan – tumutok sa rehabilitasyon. Pamahalaan – itulak ang awtoridad pababa sa 
antas ng county. Mga Batas – hayaan ang mga county na gawing legal ang pagsusugal.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
FOGEL, Frederick F.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Frederick F. Fogel 
Partido Pang-Kalayaan
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 5
www.ffogel.net
fogelforfreedom@gmail.com
(808) 265-1659
 Bilang kasalukuyang kinatawan para sa Kapulungan Distrito 5, matatag kong ipinagtanggol 
ang pinakamahihirap na mga residente at pamilyang nagtatrabaho sa ating estado. Nakatuon akong 
makipaglaban para sa mahahalagang patakaran tulad ng bayad na bakasyon dahil sa pamilya, may 
bayad na bakasyon dahil sa sakit, pagiging patas sa buwis, at tunay na abot-kayang pabahay. Nakatuon 
din ako sa pagpapalago ng malalapit sa kapaligiran na trabaho, pagprotekta sa ating pinakamamahal 
na ‘āina mula sa mapanlinlang na pagpapaunlad, pagpapalakas ng kahandaan sa emergency, at 
pagpapahusay ng katatagan sa klima sa buong isla ng ating tahanan. Panghuli, palaging akong 
magiging isang matapang na tagapagtaguyod para sa mga karapatan ng kababaihan, mga programang 
Katutubong Hawaiian, pag-access sa de-kalidad na pangangalaga sa kalusugan, at mga kalayaang sibil 
para sa ating mga kapitbahay na LGBTQ+. Sa harap ng malalaking hamon, alam kong maaari tayong 
magtulungan upang lumikha ng isang mas maunlad at napapanatiling kinabukasan para sa ating 
tahanang isla. Nakatuon ako sa paghahatid ng pamumunong may aloha para sa inyong ‘ohana at sa 
ating komunidad.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KAPELA, Jeanne
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jeanne M. Kapela 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 5
www.jeannekapela.com
jeanne@jeannekapela.com
(808) 854-1148
 Nanirahan ako sa Distrito 5 mula noong ako ay apat na taong gulang at mapalad akong 
palakihin ang aking mga anak dito. Bilang isang magulang at Guro ng Taon ng 2020 ng West Hawaii, 
naranasan ko ang pangangailangan para sa pagbabago sa ilang aspeto ng edukasyon. Magtatrabaho 
ako para sa pananagutan, kalinawan, at pagiging patas para sa lahat ng mag-aaral at pamilya sa loob 
ng sistema ng paaralan. Naninindigan ako para sa mga karapatan ng magulang at naniniwala na ang 
mga mag-aaral at pamilya ay karapat-dapat na maging bahagi ng mga desisyong pang-edukasyon 
na makakaapekto sa kanila. Tinatanaw ko ang mga komunidad kung saan ang mga pamilya ay 
iginagalang at sinusuportahan pagdating sa kanilang mga desisyon sa edukasyon, pagpapanatili ng 
pagkain, at pangangalaga sa komunidad at lupa. Naniniwala ako na ang wastong pagpapanatili ng mga 
pampublikong daanan at imprastraktura ay dapat maging pangunahing prayoridad. Kailangan nating 
pangalagaan ang mga pamilyang nakikipaglaban upang panatilihing tahanan ang Hawaiʻi. Kailangan 
nating pagtuunan ng pansin ang ating mga tao NGAYON upang matiyak ang isang magandang 
kinabukasan.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
OYAMA, Ashley
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Ashley K.P. Oyama 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 5
www.ashleyoyama.com
ashley@ashleyoyama.com
(808) 437-0755
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan28Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 6
 Mapagkumbaba akong naglingkod sa Kona bilang inyong Kinatawan ng Estado, mula 
Kailua hanggang Hōnaunau. Sa aking unang termino, nagpasa ako ng batas upang protektahan ang 
Kona coffee at mac nuts, palakasin ang mga depensa ng Hawaiʻi laban sa mga mapaminsalang 
species, at palaguin ang inobasyon na nakabatay sa komunidad at pag-unlad ng ekonomiya. Nakakuha 
din ako ng pondo para sa matagal nang na-overdue na pagpapanatili ng mga lokal na paaralan at Kona 
Community Hospital. Lubos akong nakatuon sa lahat ng Isla ng Hawaiʻi dahil ang mga pinagmulan ng 
aking pamilya ay mula sa Hilo, Keaukaha, ʻOpihikao, Kaʻū at Waipiʻo. Bilang isang Katutubong Hawaiian 
at ina, ang aking trabaho sa lehislatura ay lubhang makabuluhan, dahil ang Hawaiʻi ang aking tahanan. 
Napatunayan ko na magtatrabaho ako araw-araw para sa lahat ng ating pamilya, sa gayon ang ating 
mga susunod na henerasyon ay may lugar sa Hawaiʻi upang patuloy na manirahan at tawagin itong 
tahanan. Mahalo sa inyong paniniwala sa gawaing patuloy kong gagawin sa Lehislatura.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KAHALOA, Kirstin
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kirstin A.K. Kahaloa 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 6
kahaloaforkona.com
vote@kahaloaforkona.com
(808) 430-5821
 Mula Pula hanggang Asul, at lahat ng nasa pagitan, nagkakaisa tayo sa mga 
pinagsasaluhan nating hamon na kinakaharap natin bilang kama’aina. Sa kabila ng ating mga 
pagkakaiba, panahon na para UNAHIN ang mga tao sa Hawai’i. Tumatakbo ako para sa opisina upang 
dalhin ang boses ng mga tao sa kabisera. Dapat tayong magsagawa ng agarang aksyon sa pabahay, 
kawalan ng tirahan, edukasyon, at overreach at sobrang paggastos ng gobyerno.  Kailangan din nating 
maging matigas sa krimen at magkaroon ng higit na karapatan sa ating lupain. Isa akong matinding 
tagasuporta ng mga indibidwal na karapatan, pangingisda, pangangaso, pagsasaka, at ng inyong 
kalayaan na protektahan ang inyong sarili, ang inyong pamilya, at ang inyong ari-arian. May-ari ako ng 
maliit na negosyo sa Hawai’i, nakakuha ng Bachelors of Science sa criminal justice at patuloy na nag-
aaral sa Kapi’olani Community College. Dati akong miyembro ng lupon ng Hawaii Big Game Fishing Club 
at nagtrabaho para sa Hawai’i Small Business Development Center. 
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MADISON, Sylvie M.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Sylvie M. Madison 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 6
www.letsgobigisland.com
vote@letsgobigisland.com
(808) 430-5563
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan29Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 7
 Aloha! Bilang isang U.S. Marine Combat Veteran at entrepreneur na lumikha ng dose-
dosenang lokal na trabaho at muling nagpasigla sa isang napabayaang shopping plaza sa Kona, 
nakatuon ako sa paglilingkod sa Distrito 7 ng Hawaii nang may dedikasyon. Ang aking karanasan 
sa pamumuno bilang boluntaryo gaya ng Direktor sa Kailua Village Business Improvement District 
at diakono ng simbahan ay sumasalamin sa aking pangako sa komunidad at mga pagpapahalaga 
sa pamilya. Noong 2022 U.S. Senate Republican Primary, ipinagmamalaki kong nakuha ko ang 
mayoryang boto sa Big Island, na nagpapakita ng malawak na suporta para sa aking pananaw sa 
paglago ng ekonomiya, mababang gastos sa pamumuhay, at abot-kayang pabahay upang bumuo 
ng isang napapanatiling kinabukasan para sa ating mga keiki sa mga Isla. Kasama rin sa aking mga 
plano ang pagpapabuti ng imprastraktura at pagtitiyak ng pananagutan sa paggasta ng pamahalaan. 
Kung mahahalal, nangangako ako ng isang bukas at malinaw na komunikasyon, na may regular na 
pakikipag-ugnayan sa pamamagitan ng mga email, tawag, at pampublikong forum – na magtitiyak na 
ang boses ng bawat residente ay pinakikinggan at masigasig na kinakatawan sa Lehislatura ng Estado. 
Mahalo nui loa para sa inyong boto!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DALHOUSE, Timothy A. (Tim)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Timothy Alan Dalhouse 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 7
timdalhouse.com
vote4tim@timdalhouse.com
(808) 772-3996
 Kinakatawan na ni Nicole Lowen ang West Hawaii sa Kapulungan ng Estado mula pa 
noong 2012, at walang pagod na nagtrabaho para sa kanyang distrito. Sa mga nagdaang taon, nakapag-
uwi si Nicole ng pondo para mapahusay ang mga paaralan, ospital, para itayo ang Kona Courthouse, 
at ang HCC Palamanui Campus, bukod sa iba pang mga bagay-bagay. Bilang isang dating guro, 
ipinaglaban ni Nicole ang mas maayos na suweldo para sa mga guro at mas mahusay na mga paaralan 
para sa keiki, nagsikap tungo sa pagbibigay ng mas abot-kayang pabahay at pagtugon sa mataas na 
gastos ng pamumuhay sa Hawaii. Nagsumikap si Nicole upang suportahan ang mga nagtatrabahong 
pamilya, lokal na magsasaka at negosyo, at, bilang Tagapangulo ng Komite sa Proteksyon sa Enerhiya 
at Kapaligiran, inuna ni Nicole ang pagprotekta sa mga likas na yaman ng Hawaii, naisasapanibagong 
enerhiya, at pagtugon sa krisis sa klima. Sinisikap ni Nicole na lagi siyang tumutugon at nalalapitan 
ng kanyang mga nasasakupan at makipag-usap nang regular. Kung muling mahahalal, magpapatuloy 
siyang maglingkod nang may integridad, karanasan, at pagsusumikap.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
LOWEN, Nicole
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Nicole E. Lowen 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 7
nicolelowen.com
nicole@nicolelowen.com
(808) 937-8196
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
30Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 8
 Aloha, ako si Monique Cobb-Adams Perreira, isang mapagmalaking katutubong Hawaiian, 
US Navy veteran, at dedikadong may-ari ng maliit na negosyo. Pinagpala rin akong maging asawa, 
ina, at lola. Dahil lumaki ako sa Hawai’i, nagkaroon ako ng malalim na pagmamahal para sa lugar na 
ito, na itinuturing kong tahanan. Malinaw ang misyon ko: tiyakin na hindi lamang mabubuhay ang 
mamamayan ng Hawai’i, kung hindi ay uunlad din sila sa mga darating na henerasyon. Bilang inyong 
kandidato, naniniwala ako na kailangan nating limitahan ang pangingialam ng gobyerno sa ating 
mga buhay at negosyo. Wakasan ang “Magbayad para sa serbisyo” sa ating pamahalaan, panagutin 
ang ating mga inihalal at itinakdang opisyal sa kanilang mga trabaho, at wakasan ang korapsyon. 
Bitbit ko ang aking isip, katapatan, at pangakong maghanap ng mga TUNAY na solusyon para lutasin 
ang maraming nabigong polisiya na nanalasa sa Hawai’i. Pagtulungan nating maghatid ng TUNAY na 
pagbabago at tiyakin ang mas maliwanag na kinabukasan para sa ating āina, keiki, at Hawai’i nei.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
PERREIRA, Monique CobbAdams
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Monique C.A.K. Perreira 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 8
cobbadamsmo@gmail.com
(808) 938-3370
 Aloha. Ako si David Tarnas at tumatakbo ako para muling maihalal bilang Kinatawan 
ng Estado para sa House District 8 - North at South Kohala. Halos 38 taon na akong nakatira sa 
distrito at pinalaki namin ng aking asawa ang aming dalawang anak sa Waimea. Kasalukuyan akong 
naglilingkod bilang Chair ng House Committee on Judiciary and Hawaiian Affairs at limang termino 
na akong nakapaglingkod sa posisyong ito. Determinado akong tugunan ang mahahalagang usaping 
kinakaharap natin ngayon sa ating distrito, kabilang ang pagsuporta sa abot-kayang pabahay, 
pampublikong edukasyon, pampublikong kaligtasan, at proteksiyon ng kapaligiran, gayundin ang 
paglilikom ng pondo para sa mga pampublikong daang-bayan, daungan, eskuwelahan, silid-aklatan, 
ospital, at iba pang pasilidad ng estado sa ating distrito. Patuloy akong magsusumikap para matulungan 
ang ating mga pamilya, anak, kapuna, at ang mga negosyong sumusuporta sa ating ekonomiya 
kabilang ang agrikultura, turismo, astronomiya, pangangalaga sa kalusugan, at mga negosyong 
nakabatay sa kaalaman. Para sa higit pang impormasyon, bisitahin ang www.votetarnas.com. Mahalo!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TARNAS, David A.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
David A. Tarnas 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 8
www.votetarnas.com
votetarnas@gmail.com
(808) 987-5810
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan31Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 11
 Ang aking dedikasyon at misyon ay tumulong sa pang-ekonomiyang oportunidad ng Maui 
tulad ng ginawa ko sa nakalipas na 21 taon, kasama ang pagtatrabaho sa pagbibigay ng PAG-ASA para 
sa Maui pagkatapos ng mga Sunog sa Lahaina. Sa pamamagitan ng patuloy na pagiging aktibo sa ating 
mga isyu sa pabahay, gayundin sa pag-aayos ng access sa elektrikal at kalsada para sa emergency 
na imprastraktura sa South Maui kasama ng pagtulong na lumikha ng trabahong may mas mataas na 
sahod sa creative arts at technical field sa industriya ng pelikula tulad ng ginawa ko. Nagtutulungan 
upang muling buuin ang mas magandang kinabukasan para sa ating komunidad. Pagtulong na 
panatilihin ang pagkakaisa sa ating komunidad, habang tumutuon sa maliliit na negosyo, at pinapanatili 
ang ating mga kultural na tradisyon, at higit sa lahat, pagprotekta sa ating mga anak mula sa sex 
human trafficking, at pagprotekta sa mga nakatatanda mula sa mga cyber scam at predator. Umaasa 
ako na mapaglilingkuran ang Maui Nui at ang Estado ng Hawaii. contact: aileenlilyacain@gmail.com 
www.voteaileenlilyacain.com
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ACAIN, Aileen R. (Lily)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Aileen R. Acain 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 11
www.votelilyacain.com
aileenlilyacain@gmail.com
(808) 264-0622
 Aloha Mga Kapitbahay, kayo ang boss ko! Isang pribilehiyo at karangalang maging 
kinatawan ninyo. Nararapat kayo sa kinatawang #NagtatrabahoParaSaMamamayan, hindi para sa mga 
korporasyon o lobbyist! Hindi ako tumatanggap ng mga kontribusyon nila. Ako ay #HindiIpinagbibili. 
Madaling magsalita. Ang aking mga nakamit: $53Million para sa abot-kayang pabahay sa Kihei, mga 
eskwelahan, pag-iwas sa baha/sunog, 200 bagong tauhan ng Kihei, mga yunit ng #AbotKayangPabahay 
para sa preschool at guro, humiling ng 800 dagdag na yunit para sa mga walang tirahan at 
nasunugan, habang pinananatili ang mga pamantayang pangkapaligiran. Sinuportahan ko ang 
kūpuna, #Union at manggagawang nagsisilbi, mga nagwelgang nars, pagtaas ng suweldo ng 
mga guro, #KaligtasanSaPaaralan (#SchoolSafety), #Mga KarapatanNgBakla (#GayRights), #Sahod 
(#LivingWage), #MgaLokalNaMagsasaka (#LocalFarmers), pagpapababa ng utang ng estudyante, 
pinalawig na pangangalaga sa kalusugan, #MasMababangBuwis (#LowerTaxes) at edukasyon para 
sa CNA/nars. #MakaDesisyon (#ProChoice): Demokrasya, kalayaan at #MgaKarapatanSaReproduktibo 
(#ReproductiveRights) ang nasa balota: Bilang pangunahing nagpakilala ng Act2: Hindi ko hahayaang 
inaatake ang Demokrasya, at ginagawang kriminal ang mga doktor at pagpapalaglag ng mga (R)
adikal na kalaban. #GawingLegal (#LegalizeIt). Trabaho kong protektahan ang kūpuna, keiki, maliliit 
na negosyo, mga may kapansanan, ang ating kapaligiran at ang #KarapatangPantao (#HumanRights). 
Maninindigan ako para sa INYO! Salamat sa pagboto kay #TAmato
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
AMATO, Terez (T.Amato)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Terez M.A. Lindsey 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 11
www.TAmato.org
Admin@TerezAmato.org
(808) 268-2622
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
32Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 12
 Tumatakbo ako para sa posisyon dahil mahal ko ang Maui at lahat ng nasa islang ito 
na nag-iiba rito sa buong mundo (kabilang ang ibang parte ng Hawaii). Isa akong asawa, ama ng 
dalawang maliit na bata, at ipinanganak at pinalaki sa Maui. Apat na henerasyon na ng pamilya namin 
ang nandito. Nang makapagtapos mula sa UH Manoa na may degree in Finance, naging matagumpay 
ang karera ko sa pamamahala ng proyekto nitong nakaraang dekada. Sa pamamagitan ng aking 
karanasan, naunawaan ko ang maraming dahilan kung bakit napakataas ng gastos sa pamumuhay 
sa ating estado. Nalulungkot ako kapag hindi na kayang mamuhay ng mga lokal na pamilya dito 
at napipilitan silang umalis. Ang layunin ko ay gawing prayoridad ang gastos sa pamumuhay sa 
pamamagitan ng pagsasaayos ng buwis ng estado, pagbibigay ng insentibo sa pag-aari ng lokal na 
tahanan, habang pinepreserba ang ating mga prinsipyo, kalayaan, lupain, yaman, at pagpapanumbalik 
ng ating komunidad. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong boto para makapaglingkod bilang 
inyong kinatawan.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
JOHNSON, Dan
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Daniel B. Johnson 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 12
Danjohnson4hawaii@gmail.com
(808) 250-0020
 Tayo ay nasa gitna ng mabilis at hindi pa nangyayaring mga transpormasyon na 
magpapabago sa ating buhay magpakailanman. Ang walang-humpay na bagsik ng pagbabago ng 
klima ay magpapatuloy, na magpapakawala ng mas matitinding bagyo, na uubos sa mga bahura, at 
magpapataas ng lebel ng dagat. Magpapakita ng mga hamon at oportunidad an AI para sa ating pag-
iral. Ang Upcountry Maui ay agarang nangangailangan ng isang pinuno sa Kapulungan ng Estado na 
nagtataglay ng kadalubhasaan sa pagbabago ng klima, artificial intelligence, at hustisyang panlipunan 
para sa lahat. Dapat nating linangin ang katatagan sa harap ng mga hamong ito, at kailangan ang isang 
pinuno na nakauunawa sa hinaharap at aarmasan tayo kung anong naaayon. Si Rita Ryan ay aktibong 
nakikibahagi sa maraming boluntaryong tungkulin sa Maui, kabilang ang Maui County Climate Action 
Advisory Committee, ang Hawaiian Islands Land Trust Maui Council, dating pinuno ng The Climate 
Reality Project, Hawaii Chapter, at 350Hawaii.org Maui coordinator. Mabisa niyang pinamunuan ang 
kilusan upang magdeklara ng Emergency sa Klima sa Maui, na kalaunan ay sinamahan ng mga kalapit 
na isla at ng Estado. Iboto si Rita Ryan!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
RYAN, Rita M.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Rita M. Ryan 
Partido Berde
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 12
ritaryan@buzbuz.biz
(808) 250-5030
 Walang Naisumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
YAMASHITA, Kyle T.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kyle T. Yamashita 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 12
kyle.yamashita@gmail.com
(808) 870-5874
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan33Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 13
 Bilang isang konserbatibo/common sense na kandidato para sa Kapulungan ng Kinatawan 
para sa Distrito 13, gusto kong makitang mas mahusay ang Hawaii. Ang pagsuporta sa batas na 
pinakamainam para sa mga tao ay dapat na ating prayoridad. Ang pinagtutuunan sa mga araw na ito ay 
dapat sa pagpapalakas ng ekonomiya; pagprotekta sa ating mga pamilya, kabilang ang mga karapatan 
ng mga magulang sa kanilang mga anak; kalayaang medikal; at itaguyod ang ating mga karapatan sa 
konstitusyon, tulad ng ating una at ikalawang susog, sa loob ng ating dakilang estado at republikang 
konstitusyonal. Kung hindi mananatiling malakas ang ating kaloob ng Diyos na mga kalayaan sa ating 
mga gawain sa pamahalaan, tayo ay nasa panganib na mawala ang mga ito at mabigayang-daan ang 
iba pang anyo ng pamahalaan. Ang ating sistema ay itinatag sa prinsipyo ng We The People bilang ang 
namumunong katawan, ang awtoridad sa ating lipunan. Kamakailan lamang ay tumagilid tayo, ngunit 
makakatulong ako sa pagpapanumbalik ng ating republikang konstitusyonal sa pamamagitan ng pag-
isponsor at pagboto para sa batas na nagbibigay ng kapangyarihan pabalik sa mga tao.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ADAM, Scott
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Scott L. Adam 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 13
ScottAdam@icloud.com
(802) 558-3192
 Aloha! Ang pangalan ko ay Mahina Poepoe, at tumatakbo ako para muling maihalal sa 
Kapulungan ng mga Kinatawan ng Estado. Ang paglilingkod bilang inyong kinatawan sa nakalipas na 
dalawang taon ay isang pribilehiyo at responsibilidad na hindi ko binabasta-basta lang. Pinagsikapan 
kong maisakatuparan ang mga pangako sa kampanya na may rekord ng pagboto na malinaw na 
sumasalamin sa aking pangako sa ating mga tao at ‘āina. Nakilahok ako sa pagpapanimula ng higit 
sa anim na daang panukala kabilang ang mga panukalang batas para protektahan ang mga kultural 
at likas na yaman, suportahan ang maliliit na negosyo at mga lokal na sistema ng pagkain, palawakin 
ang access sa pangangalaga sa kalusugan, magbigay ng mga libreng pagkain sa mga pampublikong 
paaralan, at mapabuti ang pampublikong edukasyon, kahandaan sa sakuna, at pagiging bukas at may 
pananagutang pamahalaan. Nanatili ang aking tuon na tiyaking ang kalidad ng buhay para sa ating 
mga residente at ang kalusugan ng ating kapaligiran ay inuuna sa pagpapasya. Mapagpakumbaba 
kong hinihiling ang inyong boto at patuloy na suporta sa darating na halalan. Ola i ka wai, Mahina
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
POEPOE, Mahina
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Mahinamalamalama M. Poepoe 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 13
Votemahina.com
mahinapoepoe13@gmail.com
(808) 658-6010
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
34Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 14
 Ang estado ng Hawaii at partikular na ang kanlurang bahagi ng Maui ay nangangailangan 
ng isang tao na kakatawan sa “mga tao” at magsasalita para sa mga tao. Napakatagal nang nagsilaho 
ang mga tao ng Maui nang hindi man lang pinakikinggan ang kanilang mga boses. Sagad-sagaran ang 
katiwalian sa estado ng Hawaii. Sagad-sagaran ang kawalan ng tahanan. Sagad-sagaran ang paggamit 
ng droga. Sagad-sagaran ang napakataas na gastos ng pamumuhay. Sadsad na sadsad ang edukasyon. 
Nakikipagpaligsahan ang mga trans-gender na lalaki sa mga pambabaeng palaro sa high school. Sa 
loob ng mahigit 60 taon, pinagharian ng partido Demokratiko ang estado ng Hawaii at isinadlak ito sa 
cesspool ng dumi. Ang estado ng Hawaii ay kinilala kamakailan sa buong bansa bilang ang “Pinaka 
Hindi Abot-kaya” na estado sa Amerika. Hayaan n’yo akong maging boses ninyo sa paggawa na maging 
paraiso ang estadong ito na siyang nararapat. Ipaglalaban ko kayo.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ARMSTRONG, Kelly J.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kelly J. Armstrong 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 14
armstrongcorporation@gmail.com
(760) 333-2332
 Aloha, mga Botante sa Kapulungan ng Distrito 14, Isang karangalan at pribilehiyo kong 
maglingkod nitong nakaraang dalawang taon bilang inyong Kinatawan ng Kapulungan ng Estado. 
Pinasasalamatan ko kayo mula sa kaibuturan ng aking puso para sa inyong nakaraang suporta at 
inaasahan ko ang inyong suporta sa hinaharap. Nakakuha ako ng maraming kaalaman sa nakalipas 
na dalawang taon bilang inyong Kinatawan ng Estado na sinamahan pa ng aking walong taon ng 
nakaraang karanasan sa Konseho ng County at ang mga ito ay magpapatunay na buong-husay na 
magsisilbi sa mga pangangailangan ng ating mga komunidad! Habang patuloy akong naninirahan 
sa Lahaina kung saan ako nanirahan sa buong buhay ko, ang aking puso at kaluluwa ay labis 
na nasasaktan para sa pinakamalaking pagkawala na hindi maisip ng sinuman sa atin. Sa ATING 
pagbangon, oo, kakailanganin nating sama-samang magtuliungan upang maisagawa ito. Na ang 
BUONG Kapulungan ng Distrito 14 mula sa dulo hanggang sa dulo ay mapapangalagaan. Asahan ninyo 
na ang aking opisina gaya ng dati ay magiging bukas, tumutugon at transparent!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
COCHRAN, Elle
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Eleanora K. Cochran 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 14
voteellecochran.com
cochranelle00@gmail.com
(808) 281-7709
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan35Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 15
 David Moranz Ang aking kasalukuyang tungkulin ay nagtatrabaho para sa pamilya at sa 
negosyo ng pamilya. Pinakalayunin ko ay kung paano ko matutulungan ang komunidad at ang estado 
ng Hawaii. Ang mga nakamit ko ay ang kapitan ng maritime, fire fighter pacific missile range, operator 
ng mabibigat na kagamitan, operator ng planta, trouble shooter at pagkukumpuni ng kasangkapan. 
Mayroon akong aktuwal na karanasan kung paano mapagana ang mga bagay-bagay.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MORANZ, David A.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
David Anthony Moranz 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 15
kilakahi@gmail.com
(808) 651-8882
 Isang karangalang maglingkod bilang Kinatawan ng Estado ng Distrito 15. Nagsimula 
ang aking interes sa serbisyo publiko 14 na taon na ang nakalipas noong una akong tumakbo para sa 
Konseho ng County ng Kaua‘i. Ang layunin ko noong panahong iyon ay “magtrabaho para sa isang 
mas mabuting Kaua‘i.” Naglingkod ako ng tatlong taon sa Konseho ng County, tatlong taon bilang 
Tagapamahalang Direktor, at walong taon sa Kapulungan ng Estado. Sa nakalipas na dalawang taon, 
naglingkod ako bilang Pinuno ng Mayorya. Sa pamamagitan ng pagtatayo ng abot-kayang pabahay, 
pangangalaga sa ating mga lupain at tubig, pagpapatupad ng unibersal na preschool na edukasyon, 
pag-iba-iba ng ating ekonomiya, at pagtulong sa mga pamilyang higit na nangangailangan, maaari 
tayong umunlad at mapabuti ang ating kalidad ng buhay. Mapagpakumbaba kong hinihingi ang 
inyong boto upang maipagpatuloy ko ang mahalagang gawain sa hinaharap: muling pagpapaunlad ng 
pampublikong pabahay ng Kapa’a, pagpapatupad ng Mahelona Master Plan para sa mas abot-kayang 
pabahay at mga serbisyong pampubliko, pagbabawas ng trapiko ng mga bisita sa pamamagitan ng 
pagpapatupad ng mga hub ng transportasyon, at pagsuporta sa lokal na pagkain.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
NAKAMURA, Nadine K.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Nadine K. Nakamura 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 15
NadineNakamura.com
nknplan@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-1507
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
36Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 16
 Nanirahan ako sa Kaua’i sa buong buhay ko, at nagkaroon ako ng karangalan na 
maglingkod sa Konseho ng County ng Kaua’i sa loob ng apat na taon at sa Kapulungan ng mga 
Kinatawan ng Estado ng Hawai’i sa nakalipas na dalawang taon. Ang misyon ko ay simple: gawing 
abot-kaya ang pabahay at mapahusay ang kalidad ng ating buhay.    Kailangan natin ng mga 
tahanan para sa mga lokal na pamilya, hindi lamang pag-unlad ng mararangya. Sa pagpapasimple 
ng mga regulasyon, paghikayat sa pagpapaunlad ng tirahan sa loob at paligid ng ating mga umiiral 
na bayan, pagpapahusay ng imprastraktura para sa mga taong naglalakad, at pagsuporta sa mga 
multigenerational na sambahayan, maaari tayong bumuo ng masigla, napapanatiling mga komunidad. 
Ito ay magpapababa ng mga gastos sa pabahay, magpapanatiling magkakasama ang mga pamilya, 
magbabawas ng mga paglabas ng carbon, at mababawasan ang hindi pagkakapantay-pantay. 
Poprotektahan din nito ang ating mga lupang pang-agrikultura at maiibsan ang pagsisikip ng trapiko.   
Sama-sama, masisiguro nating ang mga susunod na henerasyon ay magagawang manirahan dito, 
ang ating kapaligiran ay napangalagaan, at ang ating mga komunidad ay umunlad. Nakatuon ako na 
gawing katotohanan ang pananaw na ito at ikalulugod kong makuha ang inyong suporta.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
EVSLIN, Luke A.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Luke A. Evslin 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 16
www.lukeevslin.com
luke@lukeevslin.com
(808) 635-6623
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
YODER, Steve
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Steven Jay Yoder 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 16
Kauaipatriot@gmail.com
(808) 855-5503
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan37Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 17
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
JAUCH, Michael H.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Michael  Jauch 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 17
Michael@michaeljauch.com
(808) 346-6002
 Naglingkod ako bilang isang Kinatawan ng Estado sa loob ng 14 na taon. Bago tumakbo 
para sa opisina, nagtrabaho ako sa pamahalaan ng County sa loob ng 36 na taon. Ang buong 
pang-adultong buhay ko ay nakatuon sa serbisyo publiko. Dumalo ako sa bawat araw ng sesyon 
ng lehislatibo sa lahat ng 14 na taon. Bilang isang senior na miyembro, patuloy akong nakikibahagi 
sa pagtataguyod ng mabuting batas at ginagawa ang makakaya ko upang matugunan ang mga 
pangangailangan at alalahanin ng ating distrito. Ang pagiging House Majority Floor Leader ay nagpakita 
ng tiwala at pagtitiwala ng mga kasamahan sa kakayahan ko na gampanan ang mga responsibilidad 
ng posisyong iyon, at lahat ng karanasan at seniority na iyon ay nagpapahintulot sa akin na maglingkod 
sa publiko nang mas mahusay. Ang pagbabalik-tanaw sa ating mga nagawa at minimithi, ay nagbibigay 
sa akin ng pusong puno ng kasiyahan at pakiramdam ng tagumpay. Ako ay nagpapasalamat at 
nagpapahalaga sa pagtitiwala ng mga nasasakupan sa aking serbisyo, at nais kong patuloy na maging 
inyong Kinatawan.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MORIKAWA, Daynette (Dee)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Daynette S.P. Morikawa 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 17
daynette.morikawa@gmail.com
(808) 651-8855
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
38Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 20
 Ipinanganak at lumaki sa Oahu, si Tina Nakada Grandinetti, PhD., ay tumatakbo upang 
tumulong sa pagbuo ng kinabukasan kung saan ang mga lokal na pamilya ay kayang tumira sa 
Hawaii at palakihin ang ating mga keiki para pangalagaan ang ating mga pinakamamahal na lupain at 
katubigan. Inialay niya ang kanyang karera sa pag-unawa sa krisis sa pabahay at kawalan ng tirahan 
ng Hawaii, at bilang isang postdoctoral fellow na nagtatrabaho sa isang instituto sa pambansang 
patakaran, nagdadala siya ng mahalagang karanasan sa pagsusulong ng patas na mga patakaran sa 
pabahay na tumutugon sa mga pangangailangan ng mga nagtatrabahong pamilya. Dati, pinamahalaan 
niya ang tanggapan ng Representative Perruso, kung saan mahigpit siyang nakipagtulungan sa mga 
tagapagtaguyod upang bumalangkas at magsulong ng mga patakaran sa pabahay, mga sistema ng 
pagkain, edukasyon, at pagiging patas sa buwis. Nagpakita rin si Tina ng rekord ng pag-oorganisa sa 
komunidad upang turuan ang mga kabataan, maiwasan ang pagpapalayas sa mga lokal na pamilya, 
Isara ang Red Hill, at protektahan ang ʻāina para sa mga susunod na henerasyon. Lubos siyang 
naniniwala na ang mabuting pamamahala ay napagkakaisa tayong lahat upang magtrabaho tungo sa 
kabutihan ng lahat.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
NAKADA GRANDINETTI, Tina
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Tina  Grandinetti 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 20
www.tinaforhawaii.com
friendsoftinagrandinetti@gmail.com
(808) 376-5200
 Aloha, Ang pangalan ko ay Corinne Solomon. Ako ay isang ina, asawa, at kapitbahay, 
hindi isang pulitiko sa karera. Bilang isang unang henerasyong Amerikano na lumaki sa restaurant ng 
pamilya ko, natutunan ko ang isang malakas na etika sa trabaho nang maaga. Gamit ang isang Doctor 
of Pharmacy degree mula sa University of the Pacific, nagtrabaho ako sa mga ospital ng Oahu bago ako 
nagretiro para tumuon sa aking pamilya. Kung mahalal, tututukan ko ang mga sumusunod: gastos sa 
pamumuhay, komunidad, at kalinawan sa batas. Iboboto ko ang hindi sa mga batas na nagpapataas ng 
mga gastos sa pamumuhay at magsusulong para sa reporma ng gobyerno para mabawasan ang mga 
gastos. Makikinig ako sa inyong mga pangangailangan at magiging boses para sa ating komunidad. 
Nangangako akong ibigay ang 20%   ng suweldo ko pabalik sa Distrito 20—matuto nang higit pa tungkol 
sa aking “20 para sa 20” na pangako sa aking website. Sa tulong ng inyong boto, sama-sama nating 
magagawang abot-kayang muli ang Hawai’i. Ikararangal kong katawanin kayo. Salamat!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SOLOMON, Corinne S.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Corinne S. Solomon 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 20
SolomonforHawaii.com
SolomonforHawaii@gmail.com
(808) 650-3245
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan39Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 21
 Bilang ikaapat na henerasyong Japanese-American na ipinanganak at lumaki sa distritong 
ito, ipinagmamalaki kong tawagin ang Distrito 21 bilang aking tahanan at ikinararangal kong maglingkod 
bilang kinatawan nito sa loob ng apat na taon. Hinimok ng isang pananaw na bumuo ng isang Hawaii 
na kung saan ay maaaring manatili at umunlad ang mga lokal na pamilya, itinaguyod ko ang batas 
na palaguin ang abot-kayang pabahay para sa mga lokal, dagdagan ang pagpopondo para sa mga 
programa sa pampublikong edukasyon, at alisin ang mga kakulangan sa burukrasya. Kung mahahalal 
na maglingkod sa isa pang termino, umaasa akong magtrabaho sa mga isyung ito pati na rin sa iba pa 
tulad ng pagpapaunlad ng mga manggagawa sa pangangalagang pangkalusugan, pamamahala sa 
condominium, at pagpapalit ng hindi nagamit na mga ari-arian ng estado sa abot-kayang pabahay.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SAYAMA, Jackson D.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jackson D. Sayama 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 21
www.jacksonsayama.com
jackson@jacksonsayama.com
(808) 772-6145
 Aloha! Isang karangalan na magkaroon ng pagkakataon na hingin ang iyong boto upang 
mapagsilbihan ko kayo sa Kapulungan ng mga Kinatawan ng Estado. Panahon na upang itama ang 
ugat ng ating malubhang alalahanin nang sa gayon ay maisakatuparan natin ang pagpapabuti ng ating 
komunidad. Libu-libong lokal na pamilya ang nilisan ang mga isla noong nakaraang taon lamang at 
binanggit na ang gastos ng pamumuhay ang siyang dahilan. Dapat tayong magkaroon ng kaluwagan 
sa ekonomiya sa pamamagitan ng pagpapababa at muling pagsasaayos ng ating mga buwis. 
Kailangan din natin ang pag-aalis ng labis at nakakapanlumong mga regulasyon at mga patakaran. Ang 
batas ay dapat maging mahigpit sa krimen, at maging proteksiyon sa mga pamilya--ang pundasyon ng 
matatag na komunidad. Ang ating mga pulitiko ay naging bulagsak sa kanilang paggastos ng ating pera 
at naging pabaya sa patakaran pagdating sa paglilingkod sa pinakamahusay na interes ng kanilang 
mga nasasakupan. Oras na para gumawa ng pagbabago at lumikha ng Hawai’i na hindi na kailangang 
lumikas ng ating mga anak.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SEASHELL, Joelle
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Joelle M. Seashell 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 21
Houserepd21@gmail.com
(808) 799-0253
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
40Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 22
 Isang panghabambuhay na karangalan na makapaglingkod sa Distrito 22 bilang inyong 
kinatawan ng estado, at ako ay lubos na nagpapasalamat sa tiwala na ibinigay ninyo sa akin. Sa 
aking unang termino, nakamit natin ang makabuluhang pag-unlad sa pamamagitan ng pagpasa 
sa mga makasaysayang pagbawas sa buwis upang suportahan ang mga nagtatrabahong pamilya, 
naipagpatuloy ang kinakailangang pamumuhunan sa pampublikong edukasyon at naisagawa ang 
mga kongkretong hakbang upang palakasin ang ating sistema ng pangangalagang pangkalusugan. 
Ganunpaman, matagal pa bago matapos ang ating gawain. Inialay ko ang aking buong propesyunal na 
karera sa serbisyo publiko, at inaasam kong muling maghalal upang ipagpatuloy ang momentum na 
binuo natin sa pagharap sa ilan sa mga pinakamahihirap na isyu ng Hawaiʻi. Bilang ama ng dalawang 
magagandang anak na babae, lubos akong nakatuon sa pagtiyak na ang kanilang henerasyon ay 
maaaring umunlad dito sa Hawaiʻi at hindi mapipilitang umalis sa mga isla upang humanap ng 
mga oportunidad sa ibang lugar. Sama-sama, patuloy tayong sumulong para sa isang magandang 
kinabukasan para sa lahat. Mahalo sa inyong suporta!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
GARRETT, Andrew Takuya
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Andrew Takuya Garrett 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 22
www.andrewtakuyagarrett.com
andrewtakuyagarrett@gmail.com
(808) 354-1108
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
IMAMURA, Jeffrey H.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jeffrey H. Imamura 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 22
jeffimamuraforhawaii@gmail.com
(808) 927-0660
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan41Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 24
 Jillian Anderson - ang pagpipiliang “talagang gawin natin ang mga bagay” . Sa edad na tatlo 
ay lumipat ako sa Waikiki, nag-aral sa Sacred Hearts Academy mula sa K-12, at nagtapos ng summa 
cum laude sa UH Manoa matapos mag-aral ng tatlong disiplina sa negosyo (pinansya, marketing, at 
entrepreneurship) at kasaysayan. Sa loob lamang ng ilang maikling taon, maraming aspeto ng ating 
estado ang hindi na nakikilala. Ang mga gastos ay hindi na makayanan, ang kawalan ng tirahan ay 
laganap, ang krimen ay karaniwan, ang ating imprastraktura ay gumuguho, at ang kalidad ng buhay ay 
bumababa. Para sa tatlong sesyon ng lehislatibo, ako ay nasa trenches na nagtatrabaho para sa ating 
Kapulungan ng Estado (una bilang isang Legislative Analyst at sa kasalukuyan bilang Chief-of-Staff 
para sa House Minority Policy Leader) at kasama ako sa ating komunidad bilang isang miyembro ng 
ating Waikiki Neighborhood Lupon. Hindi na natin basta-basta lang titingnan ang ating napakaraming 
problemang lumalala – kailangan natin ng aksyon. Matuto pa tungkol sa kung ano ang gagawin ko sa: 
www.jillianforhawaii.com o @jillianforhawaii (Instagram).
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ANDERSON, Jillian T.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jillian T. Anderson 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 24
www.jillianforhawaii.com
jillianforhawaii@gmail.com
 Adrian Tam ang pangalan ko. Ipinanganak at pinalaki rito sa Honolulu, isa akong taas-
noong nakapagtapos sa Kalani High School. Nang makapagtapos ako mula sa Penn State, umuwi ako 
upang trabahuhin ang maliit na negosyo ng aking pamilya. Dahil sa inspirasyon ng aking komunidad 
at pagnanais na makakita ng positibong pagbabago, napunta ako sa serbisyo publiko sa Lehislatura 
ng Estado ng Hawaii. Pagkaraan ng ilang taon bilang isang kawani, pinarangalan akong mahalal bilang 
inyong Kinatawan ng Estado sa 2020 sa kasagsagan ng pandemya ng COVID-19. Simple lang ang aking 
misyon: pabutihin ang buhay para sa aking mga kapitbahay. Nangangahulugan ito ng pagtugon sa 
kaligtasan ng publiko, polusyon ng ingay, at gastos ng pamumuhay habang tinitiyak ang mahalagang 
pagpopondo para sa mahahalagang proyekto para sa ating kapitbahayan. Kabilang sa aking iba 
pang prayoridad ang mga kritikal na isyu na kinakaharap ng estado, tulad ng kawalan ng tirahan, 
pagkakaiba-iba ng ekonomiya, abot-kayang pabahay, at pagprotekta sa ating kapaligiran. Ikinararangal 
kong mapaglingkuran kayong muli, at mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong boto.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TAM, Adrian
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Adrian K. Tam 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 24
adrianforhawaii.com
info@adrianforhawaii.com
(808) 388-8281
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
42Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 27
 31 taon na akong may asawa, may 3 akong anak, at maayos na karera sa real estate. Isa 
akong may-ari ng bahay, negosyante, at investor. Ipinanganak at lumaki ako sa Pilipinas. Ang mga 
magulang ko ay pangalawang henerasyon na mga imigranteng Tsino. Natapos ako sa University of 
Hawaii, Manoa. Konektado ako sa ating mga lokal na simbahan at miyembro ng Honolulu Board of 
Realtors. Ang aking etika sa pagtatrabaho, kasipagan, determinasyon, at matibay na background 
sa pagpapatakbo ng negosyo ay magiging malaking tulong at ambag sa ating Estado. Kabilang sa 
mga pangunahing layunin ko ang pagprotekta at pagtataguyod sa kapakanan ng ating mga anak; 
pagpapababa ng krimen, ilegal na paggamit ng droga, burukratikong red tape, at hindi kinakailangang 
paggasta ng pera ng mga nagbabayad ng buwis; at pamamahala ng kawalan ng tirahan. Kabilang 
sa aking mga etika ang kalinawan, responsibilidad, at pananagutan. Tumatakbo ako para sa 
posisyon upang makatulong at makagawa ng pagbabago sa mga buhay ng mamamayan ng Hawaii. 
Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong suporta.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
LIM, Margaret U.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Margaret U. Lim 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 27
www.lim4hawaii.com
margaret@lim4hawaii.com
(808) 551-4532
 Nagsumikap ako nang husto upang lumikha ng bukas at tumutugon na komunikasyon 
sa mga kapitbahay upang pinakamahusay na kumatawan sa inyong mga interes sa Lehislatura at 
tumulong sa mga pangangailangan ng komunidad. Nakatuon ako sa pagpapatuloy ng madalas na mail, 
email, at phone correspondence gayundin sa mga pagpupulong ng komunidad at pag-iisponsor ng 
mga bayarin sa mga residente upang bigyan ng boses ang inyong mga prayoridad. Bilang Pangalawang 
Tagapangulo ng Komite sa Kalusugan at Kawalang-tirahan, tumuon ako sa mga kakulangan sa medikal 
na manggagawa, pagpapalawak ng mga programa sa kalusugan ng isip at pag-abuso sa droga, mga 
serbisyo sa walang tirahan batay sa pangmatagalang mga tuluy-tuloy na pagbabago ng pangangalaga, 
at mga opsyon sa pangmatagalang pangangalaga upang matulungan ang mga kupuna na tumanda 
sa lugar. Marami pang gawaing kailangang tapusin sa mga isyung ito kasama ang mga alalahanin ng 
komunidad tungkol sa krimen, gastos ng pamumuhay, pabahay, at pagpreserba sa katangian at kalidad 
ng ating mga kapitbahayan na patuloy kong tutugunan kung muling mahahalal. Isang pribilehiyo na 
kumatawan sa distritong ito at mapagkumbaba kong hinihinging muli ang inyong suporta. Salamat sa 
inyong pagsasaalang-alang.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TAKENOUCHI, Jenna
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jenna W.Y.C. Takenouchi 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 27
jennatakenouchi.com
jenna.takenouchi@gmail.com
(808) 368-7311
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan43Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 29
 LAYUNIN: Upang matiyak ang isang maunlad na kinabukasan para sa ating komunidad at 
sa buong Hawaiʻi sa pamamagitan ng maprinsipyong pamumuno. PAMILYA: - Pamilya Lardizabal (side 
ng ina) mula sa Tagudin, Ilocos Sur - Pamilya Hussey (side ng ama) mula sa Kohala, Hawaii Island - 
Asawa at tatlong anak TRABAHO: - Developer ng mga solar project na pagmamay-ari ng komunidad at 
teknolohiya sa pagbabago ng klima - Dati: Lehislatura ng Estado ng Hawaii; UNITE HERE Local 5 MGA 
LUPON NG NON-PROFIT: - Domestic Violence Action Center (Ingat-Yaman) - Hanahau‘oli School - Hawaii 
Housing Development Corporation - HAPA - Kalihi Valley Neighborhood Board - Aina Aloha Economic 
Futures (Ingat-Yaman) EDUKASYON: - MA, Political Science (UH Manoa) - BA, Peace & Futures Studies 
(UH Manoa) MGA HILIG: - Musikero - Nag-aaral ng mga bagong bagay-bagay (partikular na ang 
siyensya) MAHAHALAGANG ISYU: - Pagwawakas sa katiwalian - Pagtugon sa mga ugat ng kawalan ng 
tirahan at kawalan ng katiyakan sa pabahay - Pamamahala sa paradahan, mga kalsada, kaligtasan ng 
pedestrian - Krimen at kaligtasan - Wastong paglalaan ng badyet ng estado
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HUSSEY, Ikaika Lardizabal
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Ikaika M.L. Hussey 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 29
ikaika.house
ikaikahussey@gmail.com
(808) 221-2843
 Tumatakbo ako para sa katungkulan dahil: Isa akong lingkod-bayan at ang pangangalaga 
sa ating komunidad ang naging tawag ng Panginoon na gawin ko. Ang mga pagpapahalagang maka-
Diyos ay hindi na nakikita sa ating pamahalaan at pamunuan. Nawawala na ang mga pangunahing 
bagay tulad ng, huwag magsinungaling, huwag mandaya, huwag magnakaw, at huwag pumatay. Sa 
huling dekada, nagtatrabaho ako sa Lehislatura, naglilingkod sa ating komunidad at Estado, at hindi 
ko nakikitang bumubuti ang mga bagay. Nag-aalisan ang mga tao, nagsasara ang mga negosyo, 
hindi makontrol ang krimen, at naghihirap ang ating komunidad. Lumaki ako sa komunidad na ito, sa 
Ma’ema’e Elementary, sa Kamehameha Intermediate at High. Nagtrabaho sa New Hope, sa State Capitol, 
sa Kamehameha Schools Preschool, at sa Kalihi Union Church. Naglingkod sa Neighborhood Board, 
at Lanakila Multi-Purpose Senior Center Board sa loob ng mahigit isang dekada. Mahal ko ang aking 
komunidad, isang karangalan na katawanin kayo, pakiboto si Kaapu, Carole Kauhiwai.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KAAPU, Carole Kauhiwai
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Carole Kauhiwai Kaapu 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 29
CaroleKaapu.org
Carole.Kaapu@gmail.com
(805) 628-2822
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
44Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 30
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
AZINGA, P. M.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
P. M. Azinga 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 30
azinga-district30.godaddysites.com
nzhinza@gmail.com
(808) 202-1341
 Si Shirley ay isang lingkod-publiko na may isang dekada ng karanasan sa paglilingkod. 
Naglingkod siya ng pitong taon sa Lungsod at Probinsiya ng Honolulu, sa Lehislatura ng Konseho 
ng Lungsod habang naglulutas ng mga pampublikong usapin, nangunguna sa mga proyektong 
pangkomunidad, at pagbabantay sa lehislasyon ng lungsod. Pagkatapos ay pumasok si Shirley sa 
pagnenegosyo upang makatulong sa mga lokal na negosyo noong panahon ng pandemyang COVID-19. 
Kasama ng kasosyo niya, itinayo nila ang ‘Ilima Marketing, isang ahensya ng digital marketing na 
partikular na tumutulong sa mga mom-and-pop shop. Pinalawig ni Shirley ang kanyang karera sa 
pamahalaan sa pamamagitan ng paglilingkod nang dalawang magkasunod na sesyon sa Hawaii 
State Legislature habang nagsusuri, nagpoproseso, at bumubuo ng mga panukala at resolusyon sa 
lehislatura. Si Shirley ay isang determinado at seryosong lingkod-publiko na nagboboluntaryo para 
maiangat ang iba’t ibang komunidad. Siya ay nasa Kalihi-Palama Neighborhood Board, Farrington High 
School-School Community Council, at siya ang Chair-Woman ng Partido Demokratiko House District 30 
Council. Siya rin ang kapwa nagtatag ng Keeping Up With Kalihi, isang online na grupong nakatuon sa 
pagbibigay ng kapangyarihan sa Kalihi.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TEMPLO, Shirley Ann Labadan
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Shirley Ann Labadan Templo 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 30
shirleytemplo.com
shirley@shirleytemplo.com
(808) 748-9990
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan45Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 31
 Aloha! Ang pangalan ko ay Linda Ichiyama at isang karangalan na maglingkod bilang 
inyong Kinatawan ng Estado simula pa noong 2010. Ipinanganak at lumaki ako sa Salt Lake at 
ipinagmamalaki kong tawagin itong tahanan. Nagtapos ako sa Salt Lake Elementary School, Moanalua 
Middle School, Moanalua High School, pagkatapos ay nagpatuloy sa Georgetown University at 
UH Manoa William S. Richardson School of Law. Mahigpit akong nakikipagtulungan sa ating mga 
mambabatas sa lugar upang mapabuti ang ating mga paaralan, tulad ng bagong MoHS Performing Arts 
Center at baseball/softball field. Mapagpakumbaba kong hinihiling ang inyong boto para sa halalan ng 
2024 na ito. Mangyaring huwag mag-atubiling makipag-ugnayan sa akin sa repichiyama@gmail.com 
kung mayroon kayong anumang katanungan o mga alalahanin.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ICHIYAMA, Linda
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Linda E.I. Chong 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 31
www.lindaichiyama.com
Lindaichiyama@gmail.com
(808) 392-4547
 Aloha, ako si Nancy Valdez. Ako ay 55 at nakatira sa lugar ng Moanalua/Salt Lake, Distrito 
31. Bilang isang kandidato para sa puwesto ng Kapulungan ng Kinatawan ng Hawai’i sa Distrito 31, 
nangangako akong maging isang mapagkakatiwalaan at maaasahang tagapagtaguyod para sa 
ating komunidad. Ang aking misyon ay makinig at tugunan ang mga alalahanin ng mga miyembro 
ng komunidad nang may kalinawan at pananagutan. Karapat-dapat ang ating komunidad sa isang 
pinuno na magsasagawa ng agarang aksyon upang tugunan ang mga isyu, tutugon sa mga reklamo, 
magsusulong ng kaligtasan, tatanggap ng mga bagong ideya at diskarte upang mapabuti ang 
kapakanan at kalidad ng buhay ng ating komunidad. Mahalo, Nancy Valdez
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
VALDEZ, Nancy A.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Nancy A. Valdez 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 31
nancyavaldez@yahoo.com
(808) 489-3128
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
46Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 32
 Aloha. Kumakandidato ako para sa muling maihalal sa Kapulungan ng mga Kinatawan 
ng Estado upang patuloy na kumatawan sa mga residente ng Distrito 32. Sa buong buhay ko, sa 
loob ng 35 maikling taon, nakita ko ang aking ina, si Senadora Donna Mercado Kim, na gumawa 
ng isang positibong epekto, na ginagawang mas magandang lugar ang Hawaii para matirhan ko. 
Panahon na para sa aking henerasyon na kumilos. Buong buhay akong nanirahan sa Moanalua. Ang 
ating komunidad ay karapat-dapat sa pamumunong mula sa komunidad na tapat, malinaw, at may 
pananagutan. Magtatrabaho ako nang walang kapaguran upang bumuo ng tiwala sa mga taong 
pinaglilingkuran ko at upang matiyak na maririnig ang kanilang mga boses sa bawat desisyon na 
gagawin ko. Ako ay magiging isang malakas, mabisang boses, nagtataguyod para sa mga patakarang 
may katuturan, at tinitiyak na ang ating pamahalaan ay maglilingkod sa mga tao, na umaasa sa 
aking 8 taong karanasan bilang isang abogado. Ikinararangal kong maglingkod at salamat sa iyong 
pagsasaalang-alang at pagboto.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
AIU, Micah Pookela Kim
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Micah Pookela Kim Aiu 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 32
micahaiu.com
vote@micahaiu.com
(808) 429-9335
 Aloha mga Kaibigan, dahil sa malalim na panawagan na pagsilbihan ang ating komunidad, 
nasasabik akong ipahayag ang aking kandidatura para sa halalan ng 2024. Noong 2022, 246 na 
boto na lang ang layo natin sa isang makabuluhang pagbabago, sa kabila ng huling pagsisimula. 
Ipinapakita nito ang hindi kapani-paniwalang potensyal na mayroon tayo nang magkakasama. 
Ngayon, higit kailanman, kailangan natin ng integridad at pamumuno sa ating pamahalaan. Nakatuon 
ako sa paggawa ng isang positibong epekto hindi lamang ngayon, ngunit para sa mga susunod 
na henerasyon. Ako ay isang lider ng negosyo, komunidad at simbahan na may mahigit 30 taong 
karanasan. Sa pamamagitan ng pamamahala sa isang negosyo ng pamilya at paghawak ng mga 
nahalal na posisyon bilang Presidente ng Moanalua Valley Community Association at ng Sheet Metal 
Contractors Association, nakakuha ako ng mahahalagang kasanayan na kailangan upang maglingkod 
at gumawa ng mga desisyon na magbibigay-pakinabang sa iba. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi 
ang inyong patuloy na pagtitiwala, suporta, at mga panalangin. Mababago natin ang takbo ng ating 
kapalaran, ngunit hindi ko ito magagawa kung wala ang inyong boto. Mahalo, Garner Shimizu
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SHIMIZU, Garner Musashi
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Garner M. Shimizu 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 32
voteshimizu.com
voteshimizu@gmail.com
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan47Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 34
 Hello ako si Gaius, maaari ninyo akong tawaging Kipi. Nakatira ako sa pearl city, pacific 
palisades. Naiisip ninyo siguro, bakit ninyo ako iboboto? Ano ba ang maiaambag ko? Anu-anong 
pagbabago ang maihahatid ko? Ano ba ang alam ko? Napakagagandang tanong ng mga ito, pero hindi 
ko masasagot iyon sa 150 salitang pwedeng ilagay sa espasyong ito. Ang masasabi ko lang, hindi ko 
gusto ang ginagawa ng ating mga politiko, pinuno sa gobyerno at mga taong nanunungkulan sa ating 
tahanan, sa ating mga komunidad. Ang pagboto ninyo para sa akin ay nangangahulugang tinatanggap 
ninyo ako para magtrabaho para sa inyo. Kabilang ako sa komunidad na ito. Makikita ninyo akong 
naglalakad, sumasakay ng bus, at ibig sabihin, maaari ninyong personal na ipaliwanag ang inyong 
pangangailangan at kagustuhan sa akin. Ang tunay na boses ng masa. Salamat po
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DUPIO, Gaius, II
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Gaius K. Dupio II
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 34
gpearlcity@gmail.com
(808) 343-7314
 Nagsilbi si Gregg Takayama sa Kapulungan ng Estado sa loob ng 12 taon, pagkatapos ng 
karera bilang isang award-winning na mamamahayag at direktor ng komunikasyon para sa yumaong 
Senador ng U.S. na si Dan Inouye at UH-Manoa. Kasama sa mga nagawa niyang pambatasan ang pag-
akda ng mga batas para sa tulong ng Estado sa mga tagapag-alaga ng pamilya (ang una sa bansa), 
paglikha ng komisyon sa pangangasiwa ng mga pagwawasto upang mapabuti ang mga bilangguan 
at kulungan, at pagpigil sa mga ilegal na paputok sa himpapawid sa pamamagitan ng isang task 
force ng Estado. Nakakuha si Gregg ng mahigit sa $60 milyon para sa mga pagpapahusay sa mga 
paaralan sa Lungsod ng Pearl para sa mga bagong silid-aralan, modernong teknolohiya sa edukasyon 
at air-conditioning. Itinataguyod ng Asosasyon ng Mga Guro ng Estado ng Hawaii ang kaniyang 
muling pagtakbo. Tinulungan niyang madagdagan ang pagpopondo ng Estado para sa mga senior na 
programa na nagbibigay-daan sa mahihinang matatanda na mamuhay nang ligtas sa tahanan, na may 
mga inihahatid na pagkain, mga serbisyo sa pangangalaga sa tahanan at transportasyon. Pinarangalan 
si Gregg ng AARP ng nangungunang Capitol Caregiver Award nito at ng Alzheimer’s Association para sa 
pagtulong sa mga dumaranas ng demensya.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
TAKAYAMA, Gregg
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Gregg  Takayama 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 34
greggtakayama.com
greggtakayama@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 382-3212
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
48Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 37
 Ano ang pananaw mo? Anu-ano ang iyong mga pag-asa at pangarap para sa Hawaii? Anu-
ano ang mga pananaw ng ating mga anak? Anu-ano ang iyong mga pag-asa at pangarap para sa ating 
Keiki ng Hawaii? Ang kaalaman ay susi at ang inilapat na kaalaman ay nagbubukas ng mga pintuan sa 
mga pagpipiliang pono sa Aloha Hawaii.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KAAUMOANA, Taylor
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Taylor K. Kaaumoana 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 37
votetaylork.com
votetaylork@gmail.com
(808) 342-9160
 Aloha, Bilang Kinatawan ng Estado para sa Distrito 37 , nagsumikap ako upang matiyak 
na ang mga residente sa ating komunidad ay nakadarama na pinakikinggan, pinahahalagahan, at 
sinusuportahan. Sa nakalipas na dalawang taon, pinahusay natin ang kaligtasan ng kapitbahayan, 
ibinalik ang mga serbisyo ng bus ng paaralan, muling binuksan ang Mililani hockey rink, nalinis ang 
Kipapa gulch homeless encampment, at pinrotektahan ang ating keiki mula sa mga pinsala ng mga 
e-cigarette. Ngunit marami pang dapat gawin. Tatakbo ako para sa pangalawang termino sa 2024 para 
ipagpatuloy ang pakikipaglaban para sa mga isyung pinakamahahalaga. Ang mga patakarang patuloy 
kong paghuhusayin ay tutuon sa pagbibigay-prayoridad sa kaligtasan ng publiko, pagtugon sa pagiging 
abot-kaya ng pabahay at gastos ng pamumuhay, pamumuhunan sa ating mga paaralan, pagsuporta 
sa mga lokal na negosyo, at pagtitiyak ng mas mahusay na pangangalagang pangkalusugan at access 
sa transportasyon para sa ating komunidad. Bilang isang ina na nagpapalaki sa aking mga anak sa 
ating distrito, nakatuon ako sa pagtiyak na ang ating komunidad ay nananatiling pinakamagandang 
lugar upang matirhan at palakihin ang ating mga pamilya. Sama-sama, makakagawa tayo ng tunay na 
pagbabago. Naglilingkod, Trish
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
LA CHICA, Trish
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Mae Patricia Q. La Chica 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 37
www.trishlachica.com
hello@trishlachica.com
(808) 799-4620
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan49Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 38
 Naging karangalan para sa akin ang maglingkod sa Mililani bilang inyong kinatawan 
nitong nakalipas na 12 taon. Dito na ako ipinanganak at lumaki. Dito na rin kami namumuhay ng 
aking pamilya. Ang komunidad na ito ay aking puso’t tahanan. Ipinagmamalaki kong nag-aral ako 
sa mga paaralan ng Mililani at nakakuha ako ng Bachelors mula sa University of Hawai‘i, Masters 
mula sa Hawai‘i Pacific University at Doctorate mula sa Argosy University. Dahil sa aking edukasyon 
at karanasan sa lehislatura, mabisa kong maikakatawan ang ating distrito. Mula noong maihalal 
ako noong 2012, sinikap ko nang magkaroon ng karanasang kinakailangan upang mapaglingkuran 
kayo at maging mabisang kinatawan sa lehislatura. Unang prayoridad ko pa rin ang bukas na 
pakikipagkomunikasyon sa inyo, upang matiyak na maririnig ang inyong mga boses sa pagbubuo 
ng polisiya kaugnay ng mahahalagang usapin tulad ng mataas na gastos sa pamumuhay, pabahay, 
kawalan ng tirahan, krimen at kalinawan ng pamahalaan. Gayunpaman, ang aking determinasyon at 
koneksiyon sa Mililani ang aking tunay na kwalipikasyon, at ikararangal kong mapaglingkuran kayo ulit.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
CHEAPE MATSUMOTO, Lauren
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Lauren K. Matsumoto 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 38
laurenforhawaii.com
lauren@laurenforhawaii.com
(808) 358-7816
 Ang Mililani ang pinakamagandang bayan sa Hawaii. Naging isa itong ligtas na kanlungan 
para sa tatlong henerasyon ng aking pamilya, at nakatuon ako sa pagtiyak na maaari itong magsulong 
at magbigay ng inspirasyon sa maraming henerasyong darating. Matutugunan natin ang gastos 
ng krisis sa pamumuhay sa pamamagitan ng pagbibigay ng mga mapagkukunan para sa pabahay, 
pagkain at agrikultura, edukasyon, at transportasyon. Nangangailangan ang Mililani ng representasyon 
na tututuon sa pagkakaiba-iba, pagkakapantay-pantay, at pagsasama para sa lahat ng ating mga 
mamamayan. Ang organisadong paggawa, nakabubuhay na sahod, pangkalahatang pangangalagang 
pangkalusugan, mga karapatan ng kababaihan, at pagtiyak ng ligtas at nakakaengganyong kapaligiran 
para sa mga tao sa lahat ng kulay at pananampalataya ay mahalaga para sa isang masigla at umuunlad 
na demokrasya. Sa inyong suporta, magiging isa akong collaborative, accessible, transparent, at isang 
epektibong Mambabatas na kumakatawan sa inyo sa Kapitolyo ng Esatado ng Hawaiʻi.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
OZAWA, Alexander Kekuanao’a
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Alexander Mori Kekuanaoa Ozawa 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 38
alexozawa.com
alexozawa@gmail.com
(808) 554-1772
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
50Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 39
 Aloha Kapitbahay! Ikaw ang prayoridad. Tungkol sa paglilingkod sa inyo ang lahat ng ito. 
Ang mga layunin ko ay magkaroon ang ating komunidad ng: -mas kaunting krimen -mababang gastos 
ng pamumuhay - mas kaunting mamahaling pabahay -mas kaunting kawalan ng tahanan -magandang 
edukasyon -mas kaunting traffic Kung mabibigyan ng pagkakataong mapaglingkuran kayo ng dalawa 
pang taon, ang mga ito ang mga pagtutuunan ko ng pansin. Pakisuyong tuluy-tuloy na kumonekta sa 
akin sa pamamagitan ng pagtawag/pag-text sa aking personal cell: (808)-258-3235. Ikalulugod kong 
mapakinggan kayo.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
PIERICK, Elijah
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Elijah I. Pierick 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 39
elijahpierick.com
elijah.pierick.publicservant@gmail.com
(808) 258-3235
 Nakatuon si Corey Rosenlee sa pakikipaglaban para sa mga nagtatrabahong pamilya at 
naghahatid ng mas maliwanag na kinabukasan para sa mga susunod na henerasyon. Siya ay naging 
guro ng araling panlipunan sa Campbell High School sa loob ng halos dalawampung taon. Sa ilalim 
ng kanyang patnubay, natuto ang libu-libong mga bata sa West O’ahu ng kahalagahan ng pakikipag-
ugnayan sa sibiko, paglutas ng problema sa komunidad, at responsibilidad sa lipunan. Mula 2015-2021, 
nagsilbi si Corey bilang Pangulo ng Asosasyon ng mga Guro ng Estado ng Hawai’i (Hawai’i State 
Teachers Association), kung saan nagtrabaho siya para taasan ang pondo at sahod ng mga guro, at 
magbigay ng air conditioning para palamigin ang mga silid-aralan ng ating pampublikong sistema 
ng edukasyon. Siya ay kasalukuyang miyembro ng ‘Ewa Neighborhood Board. Mula sa abot-kayang 
pabahay hanggang sa pagpapagaan ng trapiko hanggang sa paghahanda sa emergency, nauunawaan 
ni Corey ang mahahalagang isyu na nakakaapekto sa ating estado. Isang panghabambuhay na 
kampeon ng mga pinakamahihirap na tao sa Hawai’i, handa siyang ibalik ang integridad sa lokal 
na pamahalaan at magbigay ng mga tunay na solusyon sa mga problemang kinakaharap ng mga 
residente sa ating tahanang isla.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ROSENLEE, Corey
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Corey A. Rosenlee 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 39
www.coreyrosenlee.com
coreyrosenlee@gmail.com
(808) 677-3537
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
51Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 40
 Bilang kasalukuyang Kinatawan ng Estado ng Distrito 40. Naghahangad akong muling 
maihalal upang maipagpatuloy ang mga proyektong nasimulan ko sa aking distrito. Isasagawa ang mga 
nagpapatuloy at hinaharap na mga konstruksyon bilang resulta ng mga proyekto sa pagpapahusay 
ng kapital na nakuha ko para sa lahat ng paaralan sa aking distrito. Nagpasimula rin ako at kasamang 
nagpasimula ng ilang panukalang batas at ilang resolusyon na naipasa at gagawing batas na 
magbibigay ng positibong epekto sa komunidad. Bukod sa pagpopondo sa mga proyekto ng paaralan, 
nagawa ko ring makakuha ng pondo mula sa Grant in Aid for Weed and Seed, Hawaii Humane Society 
at Kuleana Coral Restoration. May iba pang mga nagawa tulad ng paglalagay ng silungan sa isa sa 
mga hintuan ng bus sa Hanakahi Street at pagbibigay ng mga solusyon sa mga reklamo ng mga 
nasasakupan. Patuloy akong magsusumikap para sa aking distrito.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MARTINEZ, Rose
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Rosebella Locquiao Ellazar-Martinez 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 40
rosebella.martinez@icloud.com
(808) 224-1261
 Ang pangalan ko ay Julie Reyes Oda at ako ay tumatakbo para sa panunungkulan dahil 
naniniwala ako na magagawa natin nang mas maayos ang pagsiguro sa ating kinabukasan sa Hawai’i. 
Komunidad natin ang uunahin. Bilang inyong susunod na kinatawan ng estado, nangangako akong 
maging boses ninyo sa Kapulungan ng Estado. Kung mahahalal ako, ipaglalaban ko ang magagandang 
paaralan, magagandang trabaho, ligtas na mga komunidad, isang malakas na ekonomiya, pagputol ng 
pag-aaksaya ng pamahalaan, at transparency sa pamahalaan. Ako ay magiging isang independiyenteng 
boses para sa ating komunidad at mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong suporta. Pakibisita ang 
JulieReyesOda.com para matuto pa tungkol sa akin.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
REYES ODA, Julie
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Julie K. Reyes Oda 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 40
juliereyesoda.com
juliereyesoda@gmail.com
(808) 953-2054
 Bilang inyong independiyenteng kandidato para sa Kapulungan ng Estado sa ika-40 
na distrito ng Hawaii, nakatuon ako sa paghingi ng pananagutan at paghahatid ng mga resulta para 
sa ating komunidad. Karapat-dapat tayo sa pamumuno na lumalaban para sa patas na pagtrato 
at gumagawa ng mapagpasyang aksyon. Determinado akong tugunan ang mga kritikal na isyu na 
kinakaharap ng ating distrito. Mula sa pagtiyak ng transparency at pagiging patas sa ating mga singil 
sa yutilidad hanggang sa pagprotekta sa ating kapaligiran at pagtiyak ng ligtas, malinis na tubig, 
walang pagod akong magsusumikap para sa mga solusyon na magbibigay-pakinabang sa ating lahat. 
Nararapat ang ating komunidad sa higit na atensyon at paggalang. Kailangan nating gawin ang Ewa 
Beach na isang makulay na hub na may mas maraming kaganapan sa komunidad at mas malakas 
na lokal na pamumuno. Oras na para sa Ewa Beach, Ewa, Westlock, at Iroquois Point na makuha 
ang pagkilala at suporta na nararapat sa mga ito. Bigyang-katuparan natin ito. P.S. Inilalarawan ang 
larawang ito para sa mga may kapansanan sa paningin, ang aking pananalita at pagpapahayag, na 
nagtatampok ng magkakaibang mga simbolo ng kultura, mga bandila, at mga bulaklak sa likod ko 
habang nakasuot ng camouflage sa pangangaso. ALOHA
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ULUFANUA, Christian P.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Christian P. Ulufanua 
Tayo Ang Sambayanan
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 40
ulufanua4ewa.com
ulufanua.christian@gmail.com
(915) 808-6800
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
52Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 41
 Aloha, ako si David Alcos, na malalim na nakaugat sa ating komunidad sa Ewa Beach nang 
limang henerasyon na. Sa aking karanasan sa pangongontrata at pagco-coach, nakapaglaan na ako 
ng mahigit 20 taong paglilingkod sa ating komunidad. Seryoso akong pagandahin ang ating estado 
para mas maging mainam itong tirhan, habang nakatuon sa edukasyon, kaligtasan, access, kawalan ng 
tirahan, at kapakanan ng komunidad. Marubdob ang hangarin ko sa paglikha ng isang mas maliwanag 
na hinaharap para sa lahat. Salamat sa inyong suporta habang patuloy akong nagsusumikap na 
gumawa ng mga positibong pagbabago para sa ating komunidad at sa mga susunod na henerasyon.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ALCOS, David A., III
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
David A. Alcos III
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 41
RepAlcos.com
teamalcos41@gmail.com
(808) 864-6928
 Paglilingkod sa bansa, komunidad, at sa inyo… Matapos maglingkod sa Navy ng ating 
bansa nang 30 taon at ngayon, papasok na sa aking ika-10 taon ng paglilingkod sa ‘Ewa Neighborhood 
Board, patuloy na lumalalim ang aking kaseryosohan sa paglilingkod sa komunidad at pagmamahal sa 
serbisyo. Ang Distrito 41 (‘Ewa Beach, ‘Ewa Gentry, Ocean Pointe, Kalaʻeloa, parte ng Ko Olina) ay isa sa 
mga pinaka halu-halo at mataong lugar sa Oahu. Gusto kong tiyakin na aktibong naghahanda ang ating 
lumalaking komunidad para sa pangmatagalang tagumpay. Ibig sabihin noon ay pakikipagtulungan sa 
iba pang mambabatas at pagtutuon sa pagpaparami ng trabaho sa ating Komunidad; paghahanap ng 
mga solusyon para sa mas ligtas na mga komunidad; pagsuporta sa mga plano para sa abot-kayang 
pabahay; at pagtitiyak ng dekalidad na edukasyon para sa kabataan. Mayroon akong Bachelor’s 
Degree in Business Management, Master’s Degree in Contract Management, at isa akong negosyante 
at tagapagtatag ng isang lokal na non-profit organization. Ang aking layunin: patuloy na maglingkod sa 
bansa, komunidad, at sa inyo!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
CLARK, John H., III
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
John H. Clark III
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 41
friendsofjohnclark.com
info@friendsofjohnclark.com
(808) 428-1564
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan53Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 42
 Aloha Kākou, Mahalo sa paglalaan ng oras upang basahin ang bagong gabay ng 
botante ng Hawaii. Ang pangalan ko ay Diamond Garcia at tunay na mapagkumbabang nagkaroon 
ako ng pagkakataon na kumatawan sa inyo at sa inyong ‘Ohana sa Kapulungan ng mga Kinatawan 
sa nakalipas na dalawang taon. Mula nang ihalal ng mga tao sa ating komunidad noong 2022, 
ikinagagalak kong iulat na nakamit namin ang ground running, na itinataguyod ang mga isyung 
mahahalaga sa ating mga pamilya sa West O’ahu. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong suporta 
at pagboto na muling maihalal sa Kapulungan ng mga Kinatawan upang maipagpatuloy natin ang 
pakikipaglaban sa makinang pampulitika ng Hawaii, habang nagsisikap na magawa ang mga bagay 
para sa ating komunidad. Hindi na tayo maaaring umupo na lang, naghahalal ng parehong uri ng mga 
pulitiko na patuloy na nagtataas ng ating gastos sa pamumuhay habang pinapanood ang mga lokal na 
pamilyang nag-iimpake at lumipat sa kontinente ng US. Mahalo para sa inyong pagsasaalang-alang! Ke 
Akua Pū (GodBlessYou) (Pagpalain Ka ng Diyos)
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
GARCIA, Diamond
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Diamond D. Garcia 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 42
DiamondGarcia.com
RepresentativeGarcia@gmail.com
(808) 953-0483
 Aloha: Ako si Anthony Makana Paris. Lumaki sa Nānākuli at ngayon ay may-ari ng bahay 
sa Kapolei, nagmula ako sa isang pamilya ng manggagawa, at nagtrabaho ako sa mga manggagawa 
ng bakal sa nakalipas na 13 taon. Mayroon akong mga degree sa engineering, theology, at law mula 
sa MIT, Santa Clara, at Richardson School of Law ng UH. Naglilingkod ako sa ating komunidad bilang 
Tagapangulo ng Makakilo/Kapolei/Honokai Hale Neighborhood Board, Unang Bise Presidente ng 
Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs, at Miyembro ng Lupon para sa Waiʻanae Coast Comprehensive 
Health Center. Ang ating mga komunidad ay nakikibaka sa nakakapagod na trapiko, hindi abot-kayang 
pabahay, krimen, papawalang trabaho, imprastraktura na naluluma at mahina sa klima, at kulang sa 
pondong edukasyon. Ang pagtugon sa mga ito ay nangangahulugan ng pagbubuo ng isang lugar para 
sa mga lokal na pamilya sa pamamagitan ng pagtugon sa seguridad sa pagkain; pagpapalawak ng 
mga parke sa baybayin at pagprotekta sa mga watershed; pag-aayos ng imprastraktura; pagtatapos sa 
Honolulu Rail; at pagpopondo sa OHA at DHHL bilang bahagi ng isang pambuong estadong solusyon 
para sa abot-kayang pabahay. Sama-sama, maaari natin gawing mas maganda ang Hawaiʻi para sa 
mga susunod na henerasyon. Mahalo!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
PARIS, Anthony Makana
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Anthony Makana Paris 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 42
www.votemakana.com
makana4house@gmail.com
(808) 398-2468
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
54Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 45
 Aloha, ako si Desiré De Soto. Ipinagmamalaki kong buong buhay na akong nakatira 
sa Mākaha at produkto ako ng mga pampublikong paaralan ng Hawaiʻi. Nag-aral ako sa Mākaha 
Elementary, Waiʻanae Intermediate, at Pearl City High School (‘91), kung saan kinilala ako ng distrito 
sa kahusayan sa paglangoy. Hindi nagbabago ang aking pangakong maglingkod sa ating komunidad. 
Matapos makapagtamo ng bachelor’s degree sa Whitworth College (‘96), bumalik ako sa Waiʻanae 
bilang guro at kalaunan ay nag-aral ng pagpapayo sa paaralan (school counseling) sa Chaminade 
University (‘01). Layunin ko na noon pa man na makapagbigay ng pinakamahusay na suporta para sa 
keiki sa ating komunidad, sa misyong malalim na nakaugat sa mga itinuro ng aking kupuna. Nakatapos 
ako ng Ph.D. in organizational psychology, kung saan sinuportahan ko ang paglikha ng Wai’anae to 
Whitworth ‘Auwai at Papahana ‘o Kaiona (ALP). Bilang dedikadong tagapayo ng paaralan (school 
counselor), patuloy kong itataguyod ang panlipunan, emosyonal, pisikal, pang-kaisipan at pang-
ekonomiyang kapakanan ng ating mga residente. Para sa higit pang impormasyon, bisitahin ang www.
desiredesoto.com.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DESOTO, Desire Auguste
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Desire A. DeSoto 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 45
desiredesoto.com
desiredesoto@gmail.com
(808) 561-1110
 Makakatulong akong likhain ang pagbabagong kailangan natin para mabawi ang ALOHA 
ng ating komunidad. Ikalulugod kong makarinig mula sa inyo at makuha ang inyong boto.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MURAOKA, Chris
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Christopher L. Muraoka 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 45
chris4waianae@gmail.com
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan55Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 46
 Bilang isang katutubo ng gitnang O’ahu, masigasig akong kumatawan sa mga komunidad 
kung saan ako lumaki. Nag-aral ako sa Kanoelani Elementary at Hanalani Schools bago makakuha ng 
bachelor’s degree sa business administration na tumutok sa accounting mula sa University of Hawaii 
- West O’ahu. Lumaki ako sa buong gitnang O’ahu kabilang ang Whitmore, Wahiawa, Mililani at Waipio. 
Noong 2021, bumili kami ng aking asawa, dalawang anak na lalaki ng isang lumang bahay na may 
istilong isang lumang plantasyon sa Wahiawa, na nagpahusay sa aking paglalakbay. Bilang aktibong 
miyembro ng komunidad at ama ng isang batang pamilya sa Wahiawa, napagmasdan ko na gustong 
malaman ng ating mga tao kung pakikinggan sila ng kanilang kinatawan at kung pagsusumikapan na 
mapanatili ang kanilang paraan ng pamumuhay. Karangalan kong protektahan at pangalagaan ang 
ating distrito para sa ating mga anak sa mga darating na taon.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
GABRIEL, Daniel Michael
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Daniel M. Gabriel 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 46
dannymgabe@gmail.com
(808) 219-7078
 Patuloy akong lalaban para sa malinis na halalan at tapat na pamahalaan. Kinakailangan 
na maglatag tayo ng matibay na pundasyon ng mabuting pamamahala para mapagaan natin ang mga 
epekto ng krisis sa klima sa mga paraan na makatarungan at pantay, at isentro ang kagalingan ng 
komunidad sa pamamagitan ng paglikha ng soberanya sa pagkain at enerhiya, mas matatag na suporta 
para sa kalusugan at pampublikong edukasyon, maasikasong pag-unlad ng tunay na abot-kayang 
pabahay at mas mahusay na pangangasiwa ng ating pinagkakatiwalaang mapagkukunan ng publiko 
tulad ng wai at ‘āina. Palagi kong uunahin ang mga pinakamahihina, at patuloy na magsisikap na 
pasiglahin ang kumpiyansa ng publiko sa gobyerno sa pamamagitan ng sadyang gawain sa pagsasabi 
ng katotohanan at pagbuo ng relasyon. Alam ko na ang aking komunidad ay handang makisali sa 
pagsusumikap na kinakailangan upang gawin itong isang pamahalaan kung saan maaari nating 
madama ang parehong pagmamalaki at pagprotekta, at ikinararangal kong gawin ang gawaing ito 
kasama n’yo.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
PERRUSO, Amy A.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Amy A. Perruso 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 46
voteamyperruso.com
amyperruso@gmail.com
(808) 351-0980
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
56Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 47
 “Naglilingkod na Pamumuno” – Pakikinig at pagsuporta sa inyong mga layunin, seguridad 
at kabuhayan. Isa akong retiradong bumbero at likas na lingkod sibil. Naniniwala ako sa pagprotekta sa 
ating mga anak, karapatan ng mga magulang at sa ating mga paniniwala sa relihiyon. Sinusuportahan 
ko ang kabanalan ng sports ng kababaihan at ang kanilang karapatan sa privacy, ang ating karapatan 
sa pagtatanggol sa sarili at ang panuntunan ng batas na nagpoprotekta sa ating pamilya at mga 
kapitbahay. Hindi ko sinusuportahan ang mga mandatoryong bakuna, pagsusuot ng mask o lockdown. 
Dapat nating alisin ang maaksayang paggasta ng gobyerno, maglagay ng mga limitasyon sa termino 
at kailangan ng ating gobyerno na maging mas mahusay. Ang mga presyo sa pabahay, pagkain at gas 
ay hindi katanggap-tanggap. Gusto ko kung ano ang pinakamabuti para sa aking pamilya at sigurado 
akong ganoon din kayo. Dati, nahirapan ako sa pananalapi at nag-aalala tungkol sa hinaharap at ito ay 
isang kakila-kilabot na pakiramdam. Bilang isang tagapaglingkod, umaasa akong maakay ang ating 
komunidad tungo sa mas magandang buhay.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
AGUIRRE, John W. (Johnny)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
John W. Aguirre 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 47
johnnydist47.com
votejohnny47@gmail.com
(808) 754-2197
 Walong taon na ang nakalilipas, nahalal ako upang kumatawan sa North Shore at 
Ko’olauloa na may dalawang napakakonkretong layunin – ayusin ang drainage sa Kahuku High, at 
magkaroon ng bypass road sa Laniakea. Natapos namin ang aming drainage project noong 2020, at 
magsisimula ang pagtatayo ng Laniakea bypass ngayong summer. Hindi sapat ang pasasalamat ko sa 
inyong lahat para sa inyong suporta sa mga nakaraang taon, at lagi’t lagi, kung mayroon kayong isyu, 
mangyaring tawagan ako, babalikan ko kayo kaagad. Mahalo nui loa, Sean
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
QUINLAN, Sean
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Sean A. Quinlan 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 47
voteseanquinlan.com
seanquinlan82@gmail.com
(808) 388-2823
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan57Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 48
 Aloha, ang pangalan ko ay Asheemo Nefertiti Daily. Ako ay 21 taong gulang at tumatakbo 
para sa Kinatawan ng Estado ng Distrito 48. Nagtapos ako sa Castle High School at miyembro ako 
ng Partido Berde. Pinahahalagahan ko ang mga tinig ng ating komunidad, at layunin kong iangat at 
bigyang kapangyarihan ang mga kabataan na gumawa ng responsableng aksyon tungo sa ginintuang 
kinabukasan ng Hawai’i na gusto nating makita. Aloha ʻĀina—ibalik natin ang mga tao sa lupain.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DAILY, Asheemo N. (Koda)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Asheemo Nefertiti Daily 
Partido Berde
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 48
www.thedailybred.com
koda@wisdomcircles.com
(808) 349-9923
 Aloha! Ang pangalan ko ay Lisa Kitagawa at may pribilehiyo akong maglingkod bilang 
Kinatawan ng Estado para sa Distrito ng Kapulungan 48 mula noong 2018. Ipinanganak at lumaki ako 
sa Kāneʻohe at nag-aral sa Ben Parker Elementary, King Intermediate, at Castle High Schools. Nag-aral 
din ako sa Unibersidad ng Hawaiʻi sa Mānoa at nakatanggap ng bachelor’s degree sa Family Resources 
at master’s degree sa Higher Education Administration. Kasalukuyan akong nagsisilbing Pangalawang 
Tagapangulo ng Komite sa Pinansya. Sa nakalipas na 6 na taon, nagawa kong suportahan ang ating 
distrito sa pamamagitan ng pagpapanimula at pagpasa ng batas na sumusuporta sa mga paaralan 
ng ating komunidad, nagpoprotekta sa ating mga likas na yaman, kabilang ang Kāneʻohe Bay at ang 
ating Koʻolau Mountain watershed, at pagdadala ng humigit-kumulang $240 milyon pagpopondo sa 
proyektong pagpapatakbo at pagpapahusay ng kapital para sa aking mga komunidad. Natugunan ko rin 
ang mga isyu sa komunidad, tulad ng lumalaking populasyon ng mga walang tirahan, mga alalahanin 
sa mga cesspool, at pag-atake ng pisteng maliliit na fire ant.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KITAGAWA, Lisa C.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Lisa C. Kitagawa-Akagi 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 48
www.lisakitagawa.com
vote.kitagawa@gmail.com
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
58Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 49
 Nakapaglingkod na si Representative Scot Matayoshi sa Distrito 49 nang anim na taon. 
Kasalukuyan siyang Chair ng Labor and Government Operations Committee, kung saan hinahangad 
niyang mapunan ang mga bakanteng posisyon sa estado upang mapahusay ang mga serbisyo 
ng pamahalaan, makapagtakda ng polisiya sa paggawa para mabalanse ang mga pampubliko at 
pribadong interes, at mapaunlad ang kahusayan ng pamahalaan. Si Rep. Matayoshi ay nakapagpasok 
ng mahigit $125 milyon sa mga proyekto ng distrito mula nang manumpa ito sa tungkulin, karamihan 
para sa ating mga paaralan. Nag-organisa siya ng mga drive thru shot clinic, pagsasaayos ng war 
memorial, ewaste recycle drive, paglilinis ng sapa, at supply drive para sa Castle Complex school. Noong 
pandemya, si Rep. Matayoshi ay dinala ang Farm to Car program sa Windward Mall, para ligtas na 
makapagbenta ang mga magsasaka ng kahon-kahong produkto sa mga residente. Ipinasa niya rin ang 
Farm to State legislation, na nag-aatas sa Estado na bumili ng mas malaking porsiyento ng mga gulay at 
prutas nito mula sa mga lokal na panggagalingan. Kapag muling naihalal, si Rep. Matayoshi ay patuloy 
na ipaglalaban ang ating distrito.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
MATAYOSHI, Scot
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Scot P. Matayoshi 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 49
scot@scotmatayoshi.com
 Matapos makita mismo ang sesyon ng batas, gusto kong maging isa sa mga boses na 
tutulong sa paghubog ng kasalukuyan at hinaharap na Hawai’i na gusto nating makita. Bagama’t kulang 
ako sa tunay na karanasan sa pulitika, mayroon akong nararamdaman na kasinghalaga nito: isang 
malalim na nagmamahal sa komunidad at isang pagnanais na itulak ang pagpapabuti ng ating tahanan 
at ng ating mga tao. Sa pamamagitan ng aking content sa social media, nagawa kong patawanin ang 
mga tao ng Hawai’i. Hinihiling ko ngayon na bigyan ako ng pagkakataon na gawing proud ang mga tao. 
Mahalo sa inyong boto! Josiah “BrahKruz” Ubando
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
UBANDO, Josiah (BrahKruz)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Josiah  Ubando 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 49
www.brahkruz.com
josiah.nku@gmail.com
(808) 277-4337
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan59Kinatawan ng Estado Distrito 50
 Ako si Brigadier General (Ret) Tim Connelly at kumakandidato ako para kumatawan 
sa District 50 sa Kapulungan ng mga Kinatawan ng Hawaii dahil kailangan ng Kailua at Hawaii ng 
isang inspiradong pinuno na may lakas ng loob na humimok ng matinding pagpapahusay sa Hawaii. 
Pinamunuan ko ang mga Amerikanong Sundalo sa labanan sa Iraq at Afghanistan at lampasan ang 
isang pandaigdigang pandemya nang may napakalaking tagumpay. Lalaban ako para maprotektahan 
ang ating mga mamamayan, mabawasan ang krimen at kawalan ng tirahan, mapalago ang ating 
ekonomiya, mapag-aral ang ating mga anak, mapabuti ang ating imprastraktura, at suriing mabuti 
ang ating sistema ng pagtugon sa emergency sa kalamidad. Ama ako ng dalawang kamangha-
manghang anak na babae at isang foster parent sa loob ng tatlong taon. GASTOS NG PAMUMUHAY 
ANG PANGUNAHING SULIRANIN SA HAWAII! Dapat ibaba natin ito upang makatulong na maiwasan ang 
paglipat ng ating mga pamilya at ng ating mga anak sa Mainland. Lubos kong susuportahan ang ating 
pulisya, mga unang nagreresponde at ang Hawaii National Guard. Ako ang madiskarteng pinuno na 
kailangan natin para sa Distrito 50.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
CONNELLY, Timothy D.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Timothy D. Connelly 
Republika Partido
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 50
tim@connellyforkailua.com
(407) 487-6177
 Ang pangalan ko ay Mike Lee at nakatira ako kasama ang aking asawa at 2 anak na lalaki 
sa Kālaheo Hillside. Kailua ang aming tahanan at kung saan ipinanganak at lumaki ang aking pamilya. 
Tumatakbo ako upang kumatawan sa inyo sa Lehislatura ng Estado upang mapabuti ang buhay 
residensiyal sa windward side sa pamamagitan ng pagpapalakas ng ating sistema ng edukasyon, 
pagiging matigas sa krimen, pagpapagaan sa pabigat na buwis, at pagprotekta sa ating likas na 
yaman. Isa akong edukador, may-ari ng maliit na negosyo, at pinuno ng komunidad. Mayroon akong 
malawak na karanasan sa pagsulong ng mga inisyatiba ng komunidad sa pamahalaan, mga lokal 
na negosyo, mga non-profit, at mga paaralan. Bilang miyembro ng komunidad na ito, naiintindihan 
ko ang pang-araw-araw na hamon na kinakaharap ng ating mga residente. Tutuon at tutugunan ng 
aking mga prayoridad ang mga alalahanin ng mga kapitbahay sa Kailua at Kāne‘ohe na tulad mo. 
Mapagpakumbaba kong hinihiling ang inyong boto para sa halalan na ito. Magtulungan tayo upang 
protektahan ang ating paraan ng pamumuhay sa windward side para sa mga susunod na henerasyon.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
LEE, Mike
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Michael G.K. Lee 
Partido Demokratiko
Kinatawan ng Estado, Distrito 50
mikeleeforhawaii.com
mikeleeforhawaii@gmail.com
(808) 388-6222
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
60Opisina sa Ugnayan ng mga Hawaiian Katiwala ng Residente sa Molokai
 Ako si Luana Alapa na kumakandidato para muling maihalal bilang Katiwala para sa OHA 
Molokai- Lanai. Bilang isang katutubong Hawaiian na babae, biniyayaan ako ng isang posisyon upang 
pagsilbihan ang ating mga benepisyaryong Hawaiian sa mga sumusunod na paraan: Edukasyon, 
pabahay, kapanatagan sa kalusugan at ekonomiya. Nakatuon ako sa pagtiyak na ang mga layuning 
ito ay natutugunan. Isa sa aking mga layunin bilang Katiwala ang makipagtulungan sa iba pang mga 
ahensya ng Hawaii sa pagtatrabaho tungo sa pagsuporta sa mga inisyatiba para sa abot-kayang 
pabahay- mga pagkukumpuni ng bahay, mga pagpapalawak ng pangangalaga sa kalusugan sa mga 
rural na lugar, pag-aalok ng mga serbisyo sa kalusugan ng isip na lubhang kailangan sa aking isla 
ng Molokai, pagpapataas ng mga pondo para sa mga pang-edukasyon na scholarship, at bokasyonal 
na pagsasanay para sa ating Lahui. Bilang isang homesteader sa Ho’olehua, naiintindihan ko ang 
mga hamong ito dahil kasalukuyan kong kinakaharap ang mga ito. Sama-sama at sa inyong suporta, 
makakalikha tayo ng mas maliwanag na kinabukasan para sa ating Lahui. Kapag umuunlad ang mga 
Hawaiian, umuunlad ang buong Hawaii. Ang nakapaglilingkod sa iba ay ang pinakadakilang regalo na 
maibibigay mo.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ALAPA, Luana
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Sandra Luana Alapa 
Katiwala ng Residente sa Molokai
Alapa4oha.com
luanaalapa@gmail.com
(808) 782-1119
 O Kunani Nihipali ko’u inoa, isang inapo ng Kalawao at isang Benepisyaryo ng Ho’olehua 
Homestead, Molokai. Sa kasalukuyan, nabubuhay tayo sa isang nakahiwalay na lipunan. Ang Batas sa 
Paghingi ng Tawad ng 1993 (1993 Apology Law), 31 taon na ang nakakaraan ay ginarantiyahan tayong 
mga Katutubong Hawaiian ng isang landas ng Pagkakasundo, ngunit bilang mga Katutubong Hawaiian, 
naranasan natin ang mga walang saysay na Paghingi ng Tawad, nadama natin na ma-censored, mapilit 
at mapuwersa sa usaping pampulitika, pang-ekonomiya, panlipunan at pang-kultura. Ang Paghingi 
ng Tawad ay higit pa sa Pagkilala at kailangang ibalik ang katarungan sa mga Katutubong Hawaiian 
dahil ang mga makasaysayang hinaing na ito ay napatunayang lubhang nakapipinsala. Mapayapa 
tayong nagbahagi sa mga Mamamayan ng Hawaii, at sa mundo, mula nang tumuntong ang mga 
unang Dayuhan sa dalampasigan ng ating Bansa. Ang Pagkakasundo, hindi ang paghahati-hati ang 
landas patungo sa mga makatarungang solusyon mula sa mga makasaysayang kawalang-katarungan. 
Mahalaga ang pagiging sensitibo sa kultura, kung hindi, mababalewala ang pagpaplano na tutulong 
upang maibalik ang paniniwala sa lokahi.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
NIHIPALI, R. Kunani
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Ronald Kunani Nihipali Sr.
Katiwala ng Residente sa Molokai
huliau2014@gmail.com
(808) 349-6407
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan61Opisina sa Ugnayan ng mga Hawaiian Katiwala ng Residente sa Kauai
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
AHUNA, Dan
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Daniel C. Ahuna III
Katiwala ng Residente sa Kauai
ahunadan@gmail.com
(808) 631-1125
 Kailan titigil ang Hawaii sa pagiging Hawaii? Kapag wala na ang mga Hawaiian? Sa 
ngayon, mahigit sa 65% ng mga Hawaiian ay naninirahan sa labas ng Hawaii. Kritikal ang sitwasyon. 
Naghihingalo na ang pasyente. Kailangan nating pigilan ang pagdurugo. Dapat tayong umangkop at 
kumilos nang madalian at malikhain upang magamit ang ating mga mapagkukunan nang mapunan 
ang mga kakulangan at panatilihing buo ang ating mga pamilya at nasa tahanan. Mahigit tatlong 
dekada na akong nanirahan at naglingkod dito sa ating minamahal na Kauai. Walang pagod akong 
nagtrabaho upang tulungan ang ating mga pamilya. Ang pagmamahal ko sa mga bata at kanilang 
pamilya ang nagtutulak sa akin. Ngayon, dumaranas pa rin tayo ng parehong genocide sa ekonomiya 
na binanggit natin ilang dekada na ang nakalipas. Ang aking layunin ay makinig, masuri ang inyong 
mga pangangailangan, tukuyin ang mga magagamit na mapagkukunan, magplano at magsagawa. 
Kung mahahalal, susuriin ko ang pasyente, hahanapin ang mga sugat at pipigilan ang pagdurugo. 
Narito ako. Hayaan n’yo akong maging inyong tagapagtaguyod, inyong kampeon. Iboto si lindsey4kauai 
Mahalo
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
LINDSEY, Laura A.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Laura A. Lindsey 
Katiwala ng Residente sa Kauai
lauralindseykauai@gmail.com
(808) 639-3038
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
62Opisina sa Ugnayan ng mga Hawaiian Sa-Malaking Katiwala
 Sa pag-unawa sa tungkulin ng fiduciary ng isang Katiwala, gusto kong tumulong 
sa pagsasakatuparan ng mga layunin kung saan nilikha/itinatag ng Pederal na pamahalaan ang 
pampublikong trust na ito noong 1959 Pub. L. No.8603, Sec. 5. Stat. 4,5(1959) ng Congressional Record na 
naglalaan ng 203,500 ektarya upang BIGYANG-PAKINABANG ang mga Katutubong tao, at nagsasaad na: 
“Isa sa limang layunin kung saan dapat isakatuparan ang pampublikong trust ay para sa “PAGPAPABUTI 
NG MGA KALAGAYAN NG MGA KATUTUBONG HAWAIIAN(NH).” Kinilala ng 1978 Constitutional Convention 
na ang NH ay walang ibang lupang-tahanan, at sa gayon ay nangangailangan ng proteksyon para sa 
kanilang Pag-iral/Pamumuhay (Wika, Kultura, Karapatan sa Pagtitipon, atbp.) Pinauupahan ng Estado 
ng Hawaii ang karamihan sa mga lupaing ito at hindi ibinibigay ang 20%   Netong kita nito para sa 
“PAGPAPABUTI NG MGA KALAGAYAN NG MGA KATUTUBONG HAWAIIAN” . Quote mula sa Civil Beat: “Ang 
kalahati ng populasyon ng walang tirahan ng Oahu ay kinilala ang kanilang sarili bilang NH.” . Higit sa 
60% ng NH ang umalis sa kanilang sariling bayan:(
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
AHU ISA, Lei
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Leinaala S.P. Ahu Isa 
Sa-Malaking Katiwala
lahuisa@gmail.com
(808) 383-5201
 Si Keli’i Akina, Ph.D. ay kasalukuyang Malaking Katiwala ng OHA at Presidente/CEO 
ng Grassroot Institute.  Bilang tagapagbantay at repormador, itinuon niya na ang kanyang sarili sa 
pagpapanumbalik ng integridad sa OHA at paglaban sa panloloko, pag-aaksaya at pang-aabuso. 
Naging matagumpay si Katiwalang Akina sa pagtatamo ng independyenteng pagsusuri ng forensic 
ng OHA at pagpapatupad ng mga pangunahing reporma. Ang misyon ni Akina para sa trust fund 
ng OHA ay protektahan ang trust, palaguin ang trust, at gamitin ang trust para matugunan ang 
mga pangangailangan ng mga Hawaiian para sa pabahay, trabaho, edukasyon, at pangangalagang 
pangkalusugan.   Ang Katiwala na si Akina ay independyenteng boses na nagsasalita para sa mga 
benepisyaryo ng OHA.  Nakikipagtulungan din siya sa ibang mga katiwala para matugunan ang mga 
pangangailangan ng mga Hawaiian at naniniwala siyang posibleng maging puwersa ang OHA para sa 
kapakanan ng lahat ng tao, kabilang ang mga Hawaiian at hindi Hawaiian. Naglingkod na si Katiwalang 
Akina sa maraming lupon at organisasyon. Nagtapos siya sa Kamehameha Schools, Northwestern 
University at sa University of Hawaii.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
AKINA, Keli’i
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
William Keli’i Akina 
Sa-Malaking Katiwala
www.keliiakina.com
kelii@keliiakina.com
(808) 256-9792
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan63Alkalde ng County ng Hawaii
 Aloha Hawai’i Island, Noong Hulyo 1, 2023, umalis ako sa posisyon ko bilang Vice President 
ng Hawai’i Island Community Health Center upang tumakbo para sa pagka-Alkalde ng Hawai’i County. 
Libu-libo nang miyembro ng komunidad ang aking nakausap, at lumalaki ang suportang natatanggap 
sa buong isla. Ang aking plataporma na may tatlong parte, MABUHAY, MAGTRABAHO, MAGLARO ay 
magbibigay-tuon sa mga pangangailangan ng ating mga residente. Karapat-dapat ako dahil sa… 
-Pinakamahabang karanasan bilang CEO Leadership at mahigit 30 taon ng paglilingkod sa komunidad 
ng Hawaii Island. -Nagtrabaho sa 3 antas ng Gobyerno. (County, State, Federal) at Komunidad. -Eksperto 
sa Kalusugan, Kalusugang Pangkaisipan, Adiksyon, Pagiging Magulang, at Paglutas ng Problema. 
Alamin ang aking mga prayoridad sa aking website sa kimoformayor.com at sa aking Facebook/IG 
account @drkimoalameda. Kailangan natin ng pagbabago, ngayon na! Iligtas Natin ang Hawaii At 
Panatilihin ang Aloha! Mahalo (salamat)
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ALAMEDA, C. Kimo
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Christian Kimo Alameda 
Alkalde
kimoformayor.com
connect@kimoformayor.com
(808) 345-9280
 Ang paglilingkod bilang inyong alkalde ay isang habambuhay na karangalan. Mula 
noong 2020, nagtrabaho kami upang lumikha ng isang sustainable na Isla ng Hawaiʻi kung saan 
maaaring umunlad ang mga susunod na henerasyon. Sa pamamagitan ng aming unang termino, 
nakatuon kami sa pagbuo ng mga tahanan para sa mga lokal na pamilya, pagpapahusay ng kritikal na 
imprastraktura, at pagpapayaman ng mga mapagkukunan ng komunidad upang itaas ang kalidad ng 
buhay para sa lahat ng residente. Pinalawak ng aming mga pagsisikap ang pipeline ng abot-kayang 
pabahay sa mahigit 8,200 bahay at binago ang aming proseso sa pagpapahintulot ng gusali mula sa 
pinakamasama sa bansa tungo sa pinakamaganda sa estado. Pagsapit ng Disyembre, maaayos na 
natin ang higit sa 100 milya ng mga kalsada sa buong isla at sisimulan ang pinakamalaking proyektong 
imprastraktura sa kasaysayan ng county sa pamamagitan ng pagsusuring mabuti sa Hilo Wastewater 
Treatment Plant. Pinalaki din namin ng apat na beses ang badyet sa pagpapanatili ng mga Parke para 
mapahusay ang access, amenities, at kaligtasan para sa lahat. Sa inyong suporta, magpapatuloy 
kami sa paglalaan ng atensyon sa mga tao at lugar na siyang nagpapa-espesyal sa ating isla. Mahalo 
(Salamat) sa inyong konsiderasyon.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ROTH, Mitch
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Mitchell D. Roth 
Alkalde
mitchroth.org
mitchroth.chair@gmail.com
(808) 989-0385
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
64Miyembro ng konseho ng Hawaii Distrito 5
 Si Matt Kanealii-Kleinfelder ay nakatira sa Olaʻa at kasalukuyang Konsehal para sa Distrito 
5. Siya ay isang Ama ng tatlong anak at may-ari ng maliit na negosyo na may karanasan sa mga trade 
at serbisyo sa kostumer. Patuloy niyang itinataguyod ang edukasyon, sining at agrikultura. Bilang 
tugon sa mga alalahanin ng komunidad, dinagdagan ni Matt ang mga Posisyon ng Pulisya sa Puna, 
nagpasa ng mga batas na nagpapahintulot sa Pagpapanatili ng County ng mga pribadong kalsada, 
pinahusay ang Stainback Highway, at nagbigay ng libreng paghila ng mga Inabandunang Sasakyan 
mula sa pribadong ari-arian. Pinasimulan niya ang Bagong Istasyon ng Pulisya at Bumbero sa Kea’au, 
bagong Kea’au Community Center, Shipman Park Master plan, at isang bagong Kea’au Mass Transit 
Hub. Dahil sa lumulobong paglaki ng populasyon sa ating lugar, naiintindihan niya ang kahalagahan ng 
pagpaplano ng mga legasiyang proyekto para sa ating mga susunod na henerasyon. Si Matt ay isang 
mapagkumbabang kandidato na may integridad at ang tanging kandidato na epektibong nakagawa ng 
mga pagbabago na nagpapataas ng kalidad ng ating buhay! Mahalo at IBOTO SI MATT!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KANEALI’I-KLEINFELDER, Matt
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Matthew A. Kanealii-Kleinfelder 
Miyembro ng konseho, Distrito 5
punamatters@gmail.com
(808) 756-3933
 Aloha! Ako si Ikaika Rodenhurst at tumatakbo ako para maging Miyembro ng konseho ng 
County ng Hawaii para sa Distrito 5, ang Puna Mauka. Narito ako para magdala ng pag-asa sa Puna sa 
panahong kailangan natin ng pamunuang magpapakita at makikipaglaban para sa mas maunlad na 
Puna. Isa akong ama sa tatlong anak, coach sa football, at lisensiyadong civil engineer. Isinasapuso 
ko ang mga prinsipyo ng integridad, determinasyon, at compassion. Nasa unahan ng mga prayoridad 
ko ang pagpapaunlad ng imprastruktura, pagbuo ng katatagan ng komunidad at pagpapahusay ng 
kaligtasan ng publiko. Mahusay akong makipagtulungan, at handa at kaya kong makipagtulungan sa 
kahit kanino para matugunan ang mga pangangailangan ng ating komunidad. Sinumang miyembro ng 
konseho, alkalde, mambabatas, administratibong opisyal, negosyo, o mamamayan. Nasa iisang bangka 
tayong lahat at kailangan nating magtulungan sa pagsagwan upang maisulong ang ating Hawaii 
island at makapagbigay ng oportunidad at kinabukasan para sa ating mga anak at mga darating na 
henerasyon. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong boto
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
RODENHURST, Ikaika
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Steven Ikaika Rodenhurst 
Miyembro ng konseho, Distrito 5
ikaikarodenhurst.com
ikaika.rodenhurst@gmail.com
(808) 203-7450
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan65Miyembro ng konseho ng Hawaii Distrito 9
 Hindi natin pwedeng ipagpalagay na makakapaglaan ang ekonomiya ng pera para sa 
mga serbisyo ng pamahalaan o pasahod para sa mga tao upang kayanin nila ang mga gastusin. 
Susuportahan ko ang mga aktibidad at batas na nagpapahusay sa kakayahan ng mga magsasaka, 
rantsero, at maliliit na negosyo para magtagumpay. Lalabanan ko ang mga inisyatibang magdaragdag 
ng pasaning buwis sa mga taong ito. Naglingkod si Evans sa Hawaiʻi State House nang 16 na taon 
habang hinahawakan ang mga namumunong posisyon bilang Chair ng mga komite at naglingkod 
bilang Majority Floor Leader. Bitbit niya ang mga karanasan sa pagpaplano at pagpapaunlad ng polisiya 
sa pagsisikap na makahanap ng mga mabisang solusyon at palitan ang mga prayoridad ayon sa 
pangangailangan. Natamo ni Evans ang kanyang Bachelors of Arts degree in Business Administration 
sa Evergreen State College. Dalawampu’t anim (26) na taon nang nakatira si Evans sa South Kohala. 
Ipinanganak at pinalaki sa kultura ng pagsasaka sa Illinois. Siya ang unang nakatapos ng kolehiyo sa 
kanilang pamilya. Mahalo (salamat) sa inyong konsiderasyon.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
EVANS, Cindy
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Cynthia F.W. Evans 
Miyembro ng konseho, Distrito 9
cindyevanscountycouncil.com
cynthiaevans@aol.com
(808) 345-5810
 Aloha kākou! Ako si James Hustace at hinihingi ko ang inyong suporta para katawanin ang 
mga komunidad ng North at South Kohala. Layunin kong makipagtulungan sa mga kapwa miyembro 
ng komunidad sa pagsisikap na mapahusay ang mga serbisyo ng County, matuto mula sa ating 
kūpuna, makinig sa mga nasasakupan, at magbuo ng matitibay na relasyon sa mga organisasyong 
pangkomunidad. Malalim ang koneksiyon ko sa Hawai‘i. Lumaki ako sa Waimea at sa paglipas ng mga 
taon, naghanap ako ng mga paraan para makapag-ambag sa aking komunidad sa pamamagitan ng 
mga tungkuling pamumuno sa Waimea Community Association, South Kohala Traffic Safety Committee, 
County Redistricting Commission, at Waimea Trails & Greenways. Humaharap ang ating mga komunidad 
sa mga hamon, at kailangan nating makipagtulungan sa ating mga katuwang sa County, Estado, 
at Pederal na gobyerno upang makahanap ng mga solusyon para maprotektahan ang ating mga 
residente, patibayin ang ating mga istruktura, at pangalagaan ang ʻāina (o lupa). Magtulungan tayo at 
bigyan ang North at South Kohala ng kinatawang nakaugat sa komunidad. Mahalo (salamat) sa inyong 
konsiderasyon. Matuto pa sa hustaceforcouncil.com. Imua!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HUSTACE, James E.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
James E. Hustace 
Miyembro ng konseho, Distrito 9
hustaceforcouncil.com
hustaceforcouncil@gmail.com
(808) 464-2570
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan66Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Hawaii East Maui
 Sa unang tatlong termino ko sa panunungkulan, nagsumikap akong maging mas matatag 
ang County ng Maui at ang ating pamahalaan ay mas responsable sa kapaligiran at ekonomiya. Noong 
halalan ng 2020 at 2022, ipinakilala ko ang mga pag-amyenda sa tsarter, napakaraming inaprubahan 
ng mga botante, na nilikha ang unang Departamento ng Agrikultura ng county at itinatag ang East Maui 
Water Authority para makapagbigay ng mas maraming tubig para sa mga residente at magsasaka at 
mas mahusay na pamamahala ng mga lokal na mapagkukunan ng tubig. Isinulat ko ang pinakamatibay 
na munisipal na batas sa pangangalaga sa kapaligiran sa bansa na nagbabawal sa paggamit ng mga 
kemikal na pestisidyo at pataba sa mga lupaing pag-aari ng county na nagpoprotekta sa kalusugan 
ng mga manggagawa ng county at sa ating kapaligiran habang binabawasan ang pagkakalantad ng 
county sa mahal na paglilitis. Sa pamamagitan ng paglikha ng unang posisyon sa arkeologo ng county, 
pinrotektahan ko ang mga mapagkukunang pangkultura habang pinapadali ang mga proyekto ng 
county sa pamamagitan ng pagpapabilis sa proseso ng pag-apruba at pagbabawas ng mga paggasta 
ng county sa mga consultant. Patuloy akong magsisikap para maibalik ang sigla ng ekonomiya habang 
tayo ay bumabawi at gumagaling.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SINENCI, Shane
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Shane Michael Sinenci 
Miyembro ng konseho (East Maui)
votesinenci.com
ssinenci@yahoo.com
(808) 264-8919
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan67
Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Hawaii West Maui
 Panahon na upang baguhin ang pamumuno! Bilang isang ama at may-ari ng negosyo, 
isa akong tunay na boses ng mga tao. Mag-aalok ako ng responsableng representasyon sa pananalapi 
na inuuna ang ating lokal na komunidad habang nagbibigay ng bago at makabuluhang insight. Wala 
akong obligasyon sa kanino man o sa anumang mga grupong may espesyal na interes. Nilalayon kong 
maging tulay para sa mga solusyon, hindi hadlang. Sama-sama nating ibabalik ang Maui sa isang 
lugar kung saan maaaring umunlad at magtagumpay ang ating mga pamilya. Isang Maui kung saan 
maaaring tumanda ang ating keiki. Noong ika-8 ng Agosto, magkasamang nawala ang aking tahanan 
at negosyo dahil sa sunog. Gayunpaman, mapalad ako dahil ligtas ang aking pamilya. Alam ko kung 
ano ang pakiramdam ng mawalan ng pag-asa at mawala ang lahat ng pinaghirapan mo sa isang iglap. 
Pagkatapos ng sunog, nagsumikap akong tustusan ang aking pamilya at mga empleyado. Gusto kong 
ilapat ang kaparehong katatagan na iyon sa pagpapanumbalik ng pag-asa sa Lahaina at sa buong 
County ng Maui. IBOTO SI LOLO
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
ACQUINTAS, Lorien (Lolo)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Lorien  Acquintas 
Miyembro ng konseho (West Maui)
loloacquintas.com
team@voteforlolo.com
(808) 446-0106
 Aloha mai, ako si Tamara Paltin, isang asawa at ina ng dalawang anak at kumakandidato 
ako upang maglingkod bilang inyong Miyembro ng konseho ng West Maui. Kasalukuyan akong 
naglilingkod sa aking ikatlong termino at natamo ko ang maraming pananaw at karanasan sa mga 
proseso at pamamaraan ng paglilingkod bilang isang halal na opisyal, pagpasa ng mga ordinansa at 
pangangasiwa sa proseso ng badyet ng county. Sa ngayon, ginabayan ko ang pag-update ng Plano ng 
Komunidad ng West Maui hanggang sa maging batas, pinadali ang pagbabago sa zoning para sa mga 
proyekto sa pabahay gaya ng Waikapu Country Town at Kilohana Makai pati na rin ang pagkatawan 
sa ating Konseho sa Komiteng Tagapagpaganap ng Samahan ng mga County ng Estado ng Hawaii. 
Ang aking pagtuon sa pagtutuluy-tuloy ay ang pagtulong sa County at partikular sa bayan ng Lahaina 
na makabangon at muling maitayo. Mula noong araw pagkatapos ng mga sunog noong Agosto 8, 
naging bahagi ako sa pagsuporta sa ating mga residente hanggang sa pagbangon ng Napili Noho hub, 
paghahatid ng mga starlink, pagbibigay ng mga update, atbp.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
PALTIN, Tamara Akiko Maile
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Tamara A.M. Paltin 
Miyembro ng konseho (West Maui)
TamaraPaltin.com
tampaltin@gmail.com
(808) 870-0052
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan68Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Maui Wailuku-Waihee-Waikapu
 Panahon na para sa BAGONG PAMUMUNO. Nag-aalok ako ng 20 taong propesyonal na 
karanasan bilang isang abogado kasama ang serbisyo bilang Legislative Attorney para sa Konseho ng 
County ng Maui at Kapulungan ng mga Kinatawan ng Hawaii. Naiintindihan ko ang batas at kung paano 
gamitin ang batas para tulungan ang mga tao na makabangon mula sa mga deka-dekadang kawalang-
katarungan at hindi patas na mga patakaran na puminsala sa masisipag na lokal na mga tao. Tapusin 
na ang MGA KURAP NA PULITIKO. “Tama Na!” Nabigong protektahan ng County ng Maui ang mga tao. 
Panahon na para pasalamatan ang aking kalaban para sa kanyang serbisyo at lumipat sa bagong 
pamumuno na may mga bagong ideya kung paano tutulungan ang mga tao. Ang ating mga rekurso ay 
dapat gamitin upang suportahan ang mga lokal na tao at lokal na maliliit na negosyo, hindi ang mga 
luxury hotel at developer. Ipinaglalaban ko ang 25% na pagtataas ng Unyon, pagtatayo muli ng Lahaina 
para sa mga lokal, abot-kayang pabahay para sa lahat, kaunting regulasyon para sa mga lokal na 
negosyo, mahahalagang proteksyon sa kapaligiran, mga karapatan at pangangalagang pangkalusugan 
ng kababaihan, seguridad sa pananalapi para sa mga pamilya, at hustisya para sa mga Hawaiian.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
FORREST, James (Nahele)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
James  Forrest 
Miyembro ng konseho (Wailuku-Waihee-
Waikapu)
votenaheleforrest.com
naheleforrest@gmail.com
(808) 758-9096
 Ako si Alice Lee, tumatakbo para muling maihalal sa Maui County Council Wailuku-
Waihee-Waikapu residency seat. Ipinanganak at pinalaki ako sa Maui, at nag-aral ako sa St. Anthony 
School at nakapagtapos ng Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science sa Chaminade University. Ang 
nanay ng aking tatay, si Minnie Gomez Lee, ay tumira sa Wells Street at ang nanay ng aking nanay, 
si Miriam Kanakamaika’i, ay tumira sa Kahookele Street, sa Wailuku. Ang mga magulang kong sina 
Angelo at Momi Lee ay parehong nagtrabaho sa isang Hawaiian Telephone Company sa Wailuku. 
Malalim nang nakaugat ang buhay ko rito. Kumakaharap tayo sa iba’t ibang problema, katulad ng 
agarang pangangailangan para sa abot-kayang pabahay, mga trabahong may mas maayos na pasahod, 
pag-aayos ng pampublikong kalusugan at kaligtasan, pagpreserba sa ating kultura at kapaligiran, 
pagpapalaki ng ating ekonomiya, pagpapatatag ng imprastruktura at mga mapagkukunan upang 
maging handa para sa mga darating na napakalaking apoy at iba pang sakuna. Sa kabila ng tindi ng 
mga problemang kinakaharap natin, mananaig tayo at makakaraos nang mas matatag kapag sama-
sama. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong boto at suporta.Mahalo (salamat).
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
LEE, Alice L.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Alice L. Lee 
Miyembro ng konseho (Wailuku-Waihee-
Waikapu)
aliceleehawaii@gmail.com
(808) 280-0035
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan69Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Hawaii Kahului
 Natalie A Kama aka Tasha Kama - Kandidato ng Democrat para sa Konseho ng Maui 
County Puwesto sa Pagkarisedente ng Distrito ng Kahului P. O. Box 2884 Wailuku, HI 96793 Website: 
FriendsoftashaKama.org Email: tasha@friendsoftashakama.com Telepono: 808-385-3400 Mayo 20, 
2024 Tumakbo ako noong 2018 dahil sa krisis sa pabahay na nararanasan ng ating county. Lumabas 
ang Covid noong 2020 at nahiwalay tayo sa mundo at sa isa’t isa. Ang malalaking sunog sa Upcountry 
at West Maui ay naging sanhi ng ating krisis sa pabahay na dumami pa nang husto. Pangunahing 
prayoridad pa rin ang pabahay. Patuloy akong magtatrabaho nang mabilis upang muling itayo ang 
Lahaina sa patnubay ng komunidad. Dapat tayong maglaan ng oras upang sama-samang magpagaling, 
sama-samang magplano at hanapin ang kinakailangang pondo para makabalik ang lahat ng residente 
ng Lahaina sa kanilang mga tahanan. Ito ang aking pangako sa pagpapataas ng ating imbentaryo 
ng pabahay, sa pagtiyak ng trabaho at mga oportunidad sa ekonomiya para sa ating mga residente, 
habang patuloy tayong Aloha I Ke Kahi I Ke Kahi.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KAMA, Tasha
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Natalie A. Kama 
Miyembro ng konseho (Kahului)
Friendsoftashakama.org
kahukama@gmail.com
(808) 463-2963
 Ating boses, ating tahanan, ating Maui. Tumatakbo ako para muling buhayin ang Maui sa 
pamamagitan ng pagbabago, pag-unlad, at determinasyong harapin ang pinakamatitinding problema 
natin. Retirado na ako matapos makapaglingkod nang 22 taon sa Navy. Taglay ko ang matitibay na 
prinsipyo sa pamumuno: responsibilidad, hindi nagbabagong pangako, at kakayahang mamuno 
sa gitna ng kahirapan. Huwag kayong magkakamali - nanganganib ang katatagan ng Maui. Ang 
pabahay ay karapatang pantao, subalit naging mahirap na ito para sa mahigit kalahati ng ating mga 
lokal na pamilya na may higit sa isang trabaho para lang magkaroon ng tirahan at pagkain sa mesa. 
Samantala, 1/4 ng ating mga tahanan at pag-aari na ng mga hindi residente, umaasa nang husto ang 
ating ekonomiya sa turismo, at naghihirap ang mga pamilya sa mga sakahan na makipagkompitensiya 
sa mumurahing iniangkat na pagkain. Plano kong paramihin ang abot-kayang pabahay, harapin ang 
mga pang-ekonomiyang salik na nagtataguyod ng pag-aari ng mga hindi residente, at palawigin ang 
ating ekonomiya sa pamamagitan ng pagsuporta sa maliliit na negosyo, mga karera sa pangangalaga 
sa kalusugan at kalakalan, sustainable na agrikultura, at sa industriya ng pelikula. Sama-sama tayong 
bubuo ng matatag at maunlad na Maui.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KAMEKONA, Carol Lee
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Carol Lee  Kamekona 
Miyembro ng konseho (Kahului)
carolleekamekona.com
carolleekamekona@outlook.com
(808) 264-9385
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan70Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Hawaii South Maui
 Aloha. Ang pangalan ko ay Tom Cook, ang inyong kasalukuyang Miyembro ng Konseho 
ng South Maui County, na humihingi ng inyong suporta sa halalan ngayong taon. Nagdadala ako 
ng balanse sa Konseho. Mga lokal na pinahahalagahan mula sa 50+ taon bilang isang full-time na 
residente. Nagpapalaki ng 5 anak na lahat nagsipagtapos mula sa pampublikong eskwelahan sa Maui. 
Pagpapalago ng aking mga kasanayan sa gusali at sa paglutas ng problema bilang isang apprentice 
na karpintero sa isang pangkalahatang kontratista noong 1989. Ang mga aktuwal na karanasan ko, 
ang pagiging isang empleyado at kalaunan ay ang pagkakaroon ng isang kumpanya na may higit sa 
40 empleyado; ang pag-a-apply at paghihintay para sa mga permit sa pagtatayo; ang pagbabayad ng 
upa; ang pagbabayad ng sangla; ang pagpapalaki ng mga anak at pag-aalaga sa mga lolo’t lola ay 
nagbigay sa akin ng mga karanasan sa buhay upang pagsilbihan kayo sa Konseho ng County. Bitbit 
ko ang pag-iisip at pang-unawa sa mga pangangailangan ng mga tao sa ating lokal na pamahalaan. 
Mapagpakumbaba kong hinihingi ng inyong suporta at boto sa ika-10 ng Agosto at ika-5 ng Nobyembre. 
Mahalo (Salamat). Iboto si Tom Cook, Konseho ng Maui County.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
COOK, Tom
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Thomas M. Cook 
Miyembro ng konseho (South Maui)
friendsoftomcook.com
cooksynergy@gmail.com
(808) 870-2205
 Si Kelly King ay kandidato para sa posisyon sa distrito ng South Maui ng Maui County 
Council, kung saan nanguna siya sa sustainability at naging aktibong residente mula noong maging ina 
noong 1985. Mahigit 40 taon na siyang nakatira sa Maui kasama ng asawa niyang si Bob at dalawang 
anak, na parehong ipinanganak at pinalaki sa Maui (nagtapos sa Maui High School at UH Mānoa), 
at dalawang apo. Matagal na siyang tagapagtaguyod ng matatatag at mauunlad na komunidad. 
Kabilang sa mga prayoridad niya ang sari-saring paikot na ekonomiya, lokal na renewable energy, 
regenerative na agrikultura, seguridad sa pagkain, abot-kayang pabahay, pagkakapantay-pantay sa 
lipunan, kahandaan sa emergency, proteksiyon ng kapaligiran, at pinamamahalaang shoreline retreat. 
Aktibong miyembro ng lupon si King para sa maraming non-profit, kabilang ang: • Hawaiʻi Renewable 
Energy Alliance • Maui Farmers Union board • Akakū: Maui Community Television • Hui Mālama Learning 
Center • UH Maui College Sustainable Sciences Management Advisory Council • Maui Nui Food Alliance 
Steering Committee
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KING, Kelly Takaya
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Kelly T. King 
Miyembro ng konseho (South Maui)
www.kellykingformaui.com
ktkmaui@me.com
(808) 283-1954
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
71Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Maui Makawao-Haiku-Paia
 Habang bumabangon tayo pagkatapos ng mga sunog noong ika-8 ng Agosto, sadyang 
napakahalagang magkaroon ng MGA BOSES NG KOMUNIDAD sa mga mesa ng pagpapasya. Ang 
pakikibaka para sa disente, ABOT-KAYA na pabahay sa buong county ay sadyang napakahirap. 
Kailangan ng tulong ng ating kababayan. Bilang isang tagapagtaguyod/edukador para sa mga 
karapatan ng mga nangungupahan sa pamamagitan ng Maui Housing Hui, alam kong higit pa ang 
kinakailangan. Kailangan natin ng mga taong nasa katungkulan na naglalayong tumuon sa kapakanan 
ng ATING KOMUNIDAD MUNA. Habang ang mga desisyon ay ginawa upang pag-iba-ibahin ang ating 
ekonomiya palayo mula sa turismo, kailangan nating lumikha ng mga bagong paraan para mapanatili 
ng mga tao ang kanilang mga pamilya. Kailangan nating suportahan ang mga magsasaka, para mas 
mapalakas ang ating produksyon ng pagkain. Kailangan nating bigyang pabahay ang ating mga klerk 
ng grocery, kawani ng paaralan, mga manggagawa sa hotel at pangangalagang pangkalusugan. 
Kailangan nating bumangong muli habang inuuna ang MGA BOSES NG KOMUNIDAD MUNA. Mangyaring 
bumoto para sa lahat ng siyam na puwesto sa konseho, at kapag ginawa mo, lagyan ng tsek ang kahon 
na BOONE. Mahalo!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
BOONE, Nara
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Nara  Boone 
Miyembro ng konseho (Makawao-Haiku-
Paia)
votenaraboone.com
votenaraboone@gmail.com
(808) 283-3982
 Aloha, ako si Nohe Uu-Hodgins. Sa kasalukuyan, ang Miyembro ng konseho para sa 
distrito ng Makawao, Paia, Haiku. Ako ay isinilang at lumaki sa Paia at ang pamilya ko ay bumabalik 
sa maraming henerasyon sa Maui. Ipinagmamalaki ko na ako ay ina ng apat. Ang asawa kong si Koa, 
at ang aming pamilya ay nakatira sa Makawao. Bilang inyong miyembro ng konseho, naniniwala ako 
na may balanse sa pagitan ng matalinong paglago, paggalang sa kapaligiran, at paggalang sa ating 
lokal na kultura. Sa kasalukuyan kong termino, nakipaglaban ako para sa lakas-paggawa at abot-
kayang pabahay at nagtaguyod para sa pagbili ng bukas na espasyo sa lupang Pauwela. Matapos 
ang mapangwasak na mga sunog sa Maui, kailangan natin ng pabahay ngayon nang higit pa kaysa 
dati. Umaasa akong makapagbigay ng lugar na patuloy na matatawag ng ating mga apo na kanilang 
tahanan. Karangalan kong katawanin ang aking distrito at tahanang isla, sana ay maipagpatuloy ko ito. 
Para sa karagdagang impormasyon o para makipag-ugnayan sa akin, mangyaring bisitahin ang aking 
website sa votenohe.com.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
UU-HODGINS, Nohe
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Nohelani M.T. Uu-Hodgins 
Miyembro ng konseho (Makawao-Haiku-
Paia)
votenohe.com
votenohe@gmail.com
(808) 269-0691
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan72Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Hawaii Upcounty
 Aloha Maui! Tumatakbo ako para sa puwesto sa Upcountry ng Konseho ng County upang 
magdala ng positibong pagbabago at maglingkod sa ating komunidad. Ang pokus ko ay sa fsoberanya 
ng pagkain na makakamit sa pamamagitan ng regenerative na agrikultura. Naniniwala ako na ang 
pinakamakapangyarihang anyo ng currency ay ang komunidad. Sa pakikipagsosyo sa Maui Pono 
Network, tinutugunan namin ang mga isyu tulad ng abot-kayang pabahay, mga karapatan sa tubig, 
masaganang masustansyang pagkain, pinamamahalaang turismo, at pag-reclaim at pagpapanumbalik 
ng lupa. Para sa susunod na dalawang taon, dapat na maging prayoridad ang pono rebuilding ng 
Lahaina Town kasama ang pagsuporta sa ating mga magsasaka at pamilya sa Upcountry. Mahalagang 
makinig tayo, at makipagtulungan sa, lahat ng apektado ng mga wildfire noong ika-8 ng Agosto sa 
isang bukas, inklusibong paraan. Nakatuon ako sa pagbibigay-diin sa pangangalaga sa kapaligiran 
sa pamamagitan ng mga malikhaing solusyon sa patakaran. Samahan kami sa paglikha ng isang 
umuunlad, napapanatiling hinaharap para sa Maui Nui. Mahalo!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
CRUZ, Jocelyn N.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jocelyn N. Cruz 
Miyembro ng konseho (Upcountry)
jocelyn@knowthyflow.com
(702) 419-0700
 Si Yuki Lei Sugimura, residente ng Kula at nagmamalaking nakapagtapos sa Baldwin High 
School, ay kasalukuyang nagsisilbi bilang Miyembro ng konseho ng Maui County na kumakatawan sa 
Lugar ng Tirahan sa Upcountry. Naglilingkod sa Konseho mula noong 2017 , si Sugimura ay kasalukuyang 
Bise-Tagapangulo ng Konseho at tagapangulo ng Komite sa Badyet, Pananalapi at Pagpapaunlad 
ng Ekonomiya. Bago ang kanyang panahon sa Konseho, si Sugimura ay nagsilbi bilang Maui Field 
Representative para kay Senador ng U.S. Hirono at sa yumaong Senador ng U.S. Akaka. Ang pagbuo 
ng komunidad ay palaging isang hilig para kay Yuki Lei. Si Sugimura ay isang puwersang nagtutulak 
sa likod ng maraming kaganapan sa komunidad, kabilang ang Wailuku First Friday at Maui Matsuri. 
Ipinagpapatuloy ni Sugimura ang pakikipag-ugnayan niya sa komunidad sa pamamagitan ng kanyang 
buwanang Talk Story with Yuki Lei series sa Pamilihan ng mga Magsasaka ng Upcountry. Sa kanyang 
mga taon ng karanasan, si Yuki lei ay nakatuon na ipagpatuloy ang paglilingkod sa buong County ng 
Maui.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
SUGIMURA, Yuki Lei Kashiwa
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Yuki Lei Kashiwa Sugimura 
Miyembro ng konseho (Upcountry)
www.yukileisugimura.com
yukilei.sugimura@gmail.com
(808) 870-8047
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan73Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Hawaii Lanai
 Aloha! Ako si Gabe Johnson, Miyembro ng konseho ng Maui para sa isla ng Lāna’i. Hinihingi 
ko ang inyong suporta habang patuloy tayong sumusulong sa mga walang katulad na panahong ito. 
Sa panunungkulan ko bilang miyembro ng konseho, nakipaglaban ako nang husto para sa abot-
kayang pabahay sa pamamagitan ng paglikha ng mga batas na nagbibigay ng kagustuhan sa mga 
pangmatagalang residente at paggawa ng abot-kayang pabahay na tunay na abot-kaya. Alam kong 
tumataas ang gastos ng pamumuhay sa ating county kung kaya’t ginawa kong libre ang mga County 
bus para sa mga taong mababa ang kita at summer at winter PALS na libre para sa lahat. Patuloy 
kong sinusuportahan ang mga nonprofit na naglilingkod sa ating mga kaawa-awang mamamayan at 
gumagawa ng batas para suportahan ang ating mga magsasaka, uring manggagawa, at ang mga higit 
na nangangailangan nito. Masigasig akong tagapagtaguyod para sa pagprotekta sa ating kapaligiran at 
ipagmamalaki kong maipagpatuloy na maglingkod para sa ating komunidad. Mangyaring bisitahin ang 
www.gabe4council.com para sa higit pang impormasyon. Mahalo (Salamat).
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
JOHNSON, Gabe
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Gabriel L. Johnson 
Miyembro ng konseho (Lanai)
www.gabe4council.com
gabejohnsonwest111@gmail.com
(808) 559-0980
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
74Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Hawaii Molokai
 Aloha, determinado akong maglingkod sa aking komunidad sa pamamagitan ng serbisyo, 
pagboboluntaryo, at ng kagustuhan kong gumamit ng lohikal na diskarte para matiyak ang pagiging 
abot-kaya ng pabahay para sa ating mga residente. Kasama ng aking asawang si Nani, patuloy akong 
naninirahan sa west side ng Molokai, kung saan namin pinalaki ang aming anak na babae, na katulad 
ng marami sa ating mga nakababatang henerasyon, ay umalis sa Hawaii dahil sa napakamahal 
na gastos sa pamumuhay na pinalalala pa ng mga oportunidad sa pabahay na hindi abot-kaya. 
Gayunpaman, umaasa pa rin tayo na balang-araw, mapapanood nating lumalaki rito ang ating mga 
apo. Kasabay ng pagiging negosyante nang 18 taon, naglilingkod ako bilang kasangguni na nakatuon 
sa abot-kayang pabahay at mga proyektong kaulahe, habang ipinagpapatuloy ang aking pag-aaral 
upang matukoy ang mga bago at kakaibang paraan para makatulong sa mas mahusay na pamamahala 
at access sa pabahay para sa ating mga lokal na pamilya. Tumatakbo ako para sa Molokai seat ng 
Konseho ng Maui County, at taos-puso kong hinihingi ang inyong konsiderasyon at boto. Mahalo 
(salamat)
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
PELE, John
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
John P. Tau Tau Pele 
Miyembro ng konseho (Molokai)
johnpele.com
aloha@johnpele.com
(808) 658-5114
 Aloha nui! ‘O wau o (Ako ay si) Keani Rawlins-Fernandez, isang kupa’aina ng Molokai, at 
ina ng dalawang keiki, na nagtutulak sa aking pagnanasang paglaanan ang kalidad ng buhay para sa 
ating tahanan, na iwanan ito nang mas mahusay kumpara sa natagpuan ko para sa ating mga susunod 
na henerasyon. Isa akong taas-noong nagtapos sa Molokai High School na may law degree at mga 
sertipiko na nagpapakadalubhasa sa Batas sa Kapaligiran at Batas sa Katutubong Hawaiian, at master’s 
degree sa pangangasiwa ng negosyo. Sa buong tatlong terminong ito sa konseho, isang pribilehiyo na 
magtrabaho sa piling ninyo habang nagtatayo tayo mula sa ating mga pagsusumikap upang maging 
mas matatag na komunidad. Isang karangalan na ipagpatuloy ang paglilingkod sa mga tao ng Maui 
County upang matiyak na ang tinig ng ating komunidad ay suportado ng mahusay na kaalaman sa 
paggawa ng desisyon na nakasentro sa proteksyon para sa ating āina at mga patakarang nagpapagaan 
sa araw-araw na paghihirap na kinakaharap ng ating mga residente. Inaasahan kong sama-sama 
nating maipagpapatuloy ng ating pag-unlad.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
RAWLINS-FERNANDEZ, Keani
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Keani  Rawlins-Fernandez 
Miyembro ng konseho (Molokai)
votekeani.com
kokuakeani@gmail.com
(808) 351-0263
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
75Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Kauai
 Aloha sa lahat, ang pangalan ko ay Abraham F. Apilado Jr. at ako ay tumatakbo para sa 
Konseho ng County ng Kaua’i. Bilang isang ama at pamilyadong tao, naiintindihan ko ang kahalagahan 
ng isang matatag na komunidad para sa mga susunod na henerasyon. Sa pamamagitan ng isang 
regalo para sa pampublikong pagsasalita at isang pangako sa paninindigan para sa kung ano ang 
tama, nagdadala ako ng kakaibang boses sa ating komunidad. Bilang miyembro ng advisory panel 
para sa Konseho ng Pamamahala ng Pangrehiyong Pangisdaan sa Kanlurang Pasipiko (Western 
Pacific Regional Fisheries Management Council), itinataguyod ko ang kasalukuyan at susunod na mga 
mangingisda. Tinuturuan ko ang mga bisita at lokal tungkol sa ating palaisdaan, na binibigyang-diin 
ang wastong pangangalaga at pagpapanatili. Ang aking tunay na pagmamahal para sa Kaua’i at sa 
ating mga tao ay nagtutulak sa aking dedikasyon sa pagpapanatili ng ating paraan ng pamumuhay. 
Ako ay isang lokal na batang lalaki na handang maglingkod sa ating komunidad, tinitiyak na ang mga 
tinig ng ating mga residente ay pinakikinggan at iginagalang. Mahal ko ang Kauai at umaasa akong 
katawanin kayo sa darating na taon ng halalan. Mahalo
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
APILADO, Abe, Jr. (Aba-G)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Abraham F. Apilado Jr
Miyembro ng konseho
a.apilado74@gmail.com
(808) 720-7560
 Ipinanganak at lumaki ako sa Kaua’i at umuwi ng tahanan mula sa kolehiyo noong 2013 
upang magsanay bilang Doctor of Chiropractic. Sa loob ng mahigit 10 taon, nagsilbi ako sa aking 
komunidad sa pamamagitan ng aking pribadong pagsasanay at iba’t ibang non-profit na board sa iba’t 
ibang sektor ng ating komunidad. Ang karanasan sa pagtatrabaho sa mga sustainable na solusyon sa 
parehong pribado at mundo ng nonprofit ay nagbigay inspirasyon sa akin na maunawaan na posible 
ang positibong pagbabago sa sistema. Nahalal ako bilang miyembro ng konseho ng County noong 
2022 at naghahangad akong muling mahalal upang ipagpatuloy ang momentum ng pagprotekta sa 
ating mga lokal na pamilyang nagtatrabaho, pagbabawas ng gastos sa pamumuhay, at pag-aayos 
ng ating hinaharap para sa tagumpay. Sa ngalan ng aking pamilya, ng aking asawa, si Nikki, at ng 
aming bagong panganak na si Kīlaʻa, mahalo sa inyong pangakong mapabuti ng ating komunidad, at 
mapagpakumbaba naming hinihiling ang isa sa inyong mga boto.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
BULOSAN, Addison
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Addison C. Bulosan 
Miyembro ng konseho
www.addisonbulosan.com
addisonbulosan@gmail.com
(808) 652-1442
 Tumatakbo ako para muling maihalal bilang isang miyembro ng Konseho ng County ng 
Kauai. Nakapagsilbi bilang isang lingkod-bayan sa loob ng dalawampu’t tatlong taon, dating Alkalde 
ng ating tahanang Isla sa loob ng sampung taon at kasalukuyang miyembro ng konseho sa loob ng 
apat na taon, taglay ko ang masaganang kaalaman at karanasan na patuloy kong ibabahagi habang 
gumagawa ng mga desisyon para sa ating buong Komunidad ng Isla. Inaasahan kong maipagpatuloy 
ang pagsusumikap sa pagbibigay ng patuloy na suporta sa ating tahanang Isla upang matiyak na 
mamumuhay nang ligtas at may malusog na pamumuhay ang lahat mula Keiki hanggang Kupuna. 
Bilang kasalukuyang Tagapangulo ng Komite para sa Pagpaplano, inaasahan ko ang pagsisimula ng 
Planong Pagpapaunlad ng East Kauai gayundin ang aking patuloy na suporta sa lahat ng proyekto sa 
buong Isla na kasalukuyang ginagawa. Kailangan ng Abot-kayang Pabahay, Kahandaan sa Sakuna at 
Pagpapanatili ng mga Kalsada ang tuluy-tuloy na suporta at pagkilos. Iboto si Bernard Carvalho Jr na 
may Subok na Dedikadong Pamumuno.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
CARVALHO, Bernard P., Jr.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Bernard P. Carvalho Jr.
Miyembro ng konseho
carvalhob003@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-7489
 Aloha, ikararangal kong makapaglingkod nang ikaapat na termino bilang inyong Miyembro 
ng konseho ng Kauai County. Ang “Unahin ang Mamamayan” pa rin ang motto at pangunahing 
prayoridad ko sa pamamagitan ng pakikinig, pagpunta sa sariling bayan, at pag-unawa sa mga hamong 
kinakaharap, at pakikipagtulungan sa mga komunidad at nasasakupan para bumuo ng mga solusyon. 
Mahalagang mapaunlad ang ating imprakstruktura upang mas mahusay tayong makapaglaan ng 
pabahay at mapatatag ang ating mga negosyo nang sa gayon ay mas makapagsarili sa mabilis na 
nagbabagong mundo. Kailangang sama-sama tayong lumaban; panatilihin ang mga aral ng kultura 
na ipinamana ng ating mayamang kasaysayan. Mahalaga sa akin ang pagpapatibay ng kalidad ng 
buhay, pagkakaroon ng kalayaang pumili at paglikha ng mas mahuhusay na diskarte upang maiwasan 
ang panganib. Nakakatulong ang aking background sa engineering, pagnenegosyo, edukasyon at 
bolunterismo sa pamamagitan, agrikultura ng kapitbahayan, ekonomiya at media para magabayan ang 
aking pang-unawa. Biniyayaan akong maging ina at lola na naninirahan sa Kilauea. Nasa konseho ang 
buong atensiyon at buong panahon ko. Mahalo (salamat) sa pagsasaalang-alang sa akin bilang inyong 
kinatawan.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
COWDEN, Felicia
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Felicia Eileen Cowden 
Miyembro ng konseho
feliciacowden.com
feliciacowden@gmail.com
(808) 652-43632024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Kategoriya ng Paligsahan
Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
76Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Kauai
 Aloha, lubos kong ikinararangal na maghangad ng puwesto sa konseho ng county ng 
Kauai at Niihau, kung saan ang 7 henerasyon kasama ang aking sarili, ay nagkaroon, at patuloy na 
nagkakaroon, ng pribilehiyo na tawagin ang Kaua’i na ating ‘āina hānau. Ang aking tungkulin sa pag-
aalaga ng ating mga keiki at mga kūpuna, kaiaulu (komunidad), at mga likas at kultural na yaman at 
kasanayan ay nagbibigay-daan sa akin na kumilos at makakuha ng mga resulta upang maprotektahan 
ang kinabukasan ng Kaua’i at Ni’ihau. Ako si SHERRI CUMMINGS, isang kanaka wāhine, na humihiling ng 
panibagong simula bilang inyong bagong boses sa Konseho ng County. Naging inspirasyon at nagtulak 
ang kūpuna na itaguyod ang karangalan ng aking iwi kūpuna me nā kūpuna, hinihiling ko ang inyong 
taos-pusong pagsasaalang-alang at pagboto. Maaari mong malaman ang higit pa tungkol sa akin sa 
www.cummingsforcouncil.org. at hinihikayat kita na makipag-ugnayan sa akin sa pikakecummings1@
gmail.com. I mai la me ka ha’a ha’a a me ke aloha, (Sinabi nang may pagpapakumbaba at pagmamahal) 
Sherri Cummings
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
CUMMINGS, Sherri
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Sherri  Cummings 
Miyembro ng konseho
malamaanahola.sc@gmail.com
(808) 635-2085
 Aloha Kaua’i at Ni’ihau, ako si Billy DeCosta. Mapagkumbaba kong hinihingi ang inyong 
suporta para muli akong maihalal. Malalim na ang mga ugat ko rito sa ating napakagandang isla. 27 
taon na akong kasal at malalaki na ang 3 kong anak na lalaki. Napakarami kong napagtagumpayan 
sa politika nitong nakaraang 2 termino. Ipinagmamalaki kong naging sangkot ako sa pagtanggal at 
paglinis ng ating Ag property tax class Bill 2875 na sumusuporta sa mga magsasaka at katiwala sa 
rantso. Binuo ko at tumulong ako sa Bill 2910 na nagpapahintulot sa ating County na maningil sa mga 
turista na nailigtas. Tumulong ako sa pagbuo ng Bill 2913 para taasan ang mga singil sa golf para 
sa mga hindi residente / residente sa ating world-class na Wailua golf course. Kasalukuyan akong 
nakikipagtulungan kay Chair Rapozo para sa Bill 2919, isang Ag guest house bill, na magpaparami ng 
pabahay sa mga lupaing Ag/CPR. Kasalukuyan kong tinatrabaho ang pag-iwas sa baha at sunog upang 
matiyak ang pananagutan ng may-ari ng lupa.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
DECOSTA, Billy D.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Bill D. DeCosta 
Miyembro ng konseho
billyndrena@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 639-8533
 Ang panghabambuhay kong gawain sa komunidad at pangako sa katarungang panlipunan 
at sa kapaligiran ang nag-udyok sa akin na tumakbo para sa Konseho ng County. Ipinanganak at lumaki 
ako sa Kapahi at may pamilya at maraming kaibigan noong bata pa ako, na, tulad ko, ay nahihirapang 
mapagkasya ang kinikita at alagaan ang kanilang mga pamilya. Nakatuon akong gawin ang lahat 
ng aking makakaya upang ipaglaban ang ating mga lokal na pamilya kapag gumagawa ng mga 
desisyon na bumuo ng isang mas magandang kinabukasan para sa Kauaʻi, habang pinararangalan ang 
natatanging kasaysayan at kultura ng ating isla, pati na rin ang pagpapahalaga sa ating mga pakikibaka 
sa ekonomiya. Alam kong maaari akong maging isang malakas na tagapagtaguyod at boses para sa 
ating komunidad at pakiramdam ko na ang aking karanasan sa buhay, edukasyon, kakayahang maging 
analitikal, magtrabaho nang magkakasama, at makipag-usap nang maayos ay magbibigay-pakinabang 
sa gawain at dinamika ng Konseho ng County ng Kauaʻi upang makatulong na makagawa ng mga 
maalalahanin at patas na mga desisyon para sa ikabubuti ng Kauaʻi at ng mga residente nito. Marami 
pa ang available sa votefern.com.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
HOLLAND, Fern Anuenue
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Fern A. Holland 
Miyembro ng konseho
votefern.com
votefern@gmail.com
(808) 634-6242
 Ang pangalan ko ay Ross Kagawa at ako ay isang proud na asawa sa loob ng 31 taon, 
na may dalawang anak na babae at tatlong apo na lahat ay naninirahan sa Kauai. Ako ay isang 
retiradong guro at dating accountant, may Bachelors in Business Administration in Accounting ako 
mula sa University of Hawaii sa Manoa at Bachelors in Education mula sa Chaminade University. 
Noong una akong nagsimula sa pulitika, ang layunin ko ay bigyan ng upuan sa mesa ang araw-araw 
na nagtatrabahong mga pamilya. Ngayon, sa aking sampung taong karanasan na may nakamit na, 
ang layuning iyon ay nananatiling matatag. Sa kasalukuyang estado ng ekonomiya, higit kailanman, 
kailangang unahin ng Konseho ng County ng Kauai ang kakulangan ng imbentaryo ng abot-
kayang pabahay at gawing mas madali sa pangkalahatan para sa ating mga lokal na pamilya na 
makapanirahan dito sa Kauai. Anumang mga tanong o alalahanin, mangyaring makipag-ugnayan 
anumang oras dahil pribilehiyo ko ang paglilingkod sa mga tao ng Kauai.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KAGAWA, Ross
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Ross K. Kagawa 
Miyembro ng konseho
kagawar004@hawaii.rr.com
(808) 635-16052024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan77Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Kauai
 Tumatakbo ako para sa Konseho ng County ng Kauai dahil may malasakit ako sa Kauai 
at may malasakit ako sa hinaharap nito. Bitbit ko ang aking kahusayan sa negosyo at accounting, 
walong taong karanasan sa konseho bilang Tagapangulo ng badyet, apat sa mga taong iyon 
bilang Tagapangulo ng Konseho, ang aking pangako sa paglilingkod sa komunidad, at ang mga 
pagpapahalaga at prinsipyo na itinanim sa akin mula sa pamilya, mga guro, mga coach, at komunidad. 
Bilang laki ako rito, naniniwala akong kaya kong maayos na katawanan ang mga tao ng Kauai at Niihau 
dahil isa akong regular, araw-araw na residente ng Kauai na nagsusumikap at gustong pahusayin ang 
buhay para sa aking sarili at sa aking pamilya. Ipagpapakumbaba at ikararangal ko ang inyong boto sa 
darating na halalan.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KANESHIRO, Arryl J.
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Arryl J. Kaneshiro 
Miyembro ng konseho
arrylkaneshiro@gmail.com
(808) 652-5216
 Si Butch Keahiolalo ay isang dedikadong miyembro ng komunidad na tumatakbo para sa 
Konseho ng County. Bilang isang dating guro, may-ari ng negosyo at retiradong bumbero sa Kaua’i, 
naiintindihan niya ang kahalagahan ng pamumuhunan sa ating mga kabataan, pagbibigay ng mga 
pagkakataong pang-ekonomiya para sa ating mga residente, at pagtiyak sa kaligtasan at kagalingan 
ng ating komunidad. Ang mga pangunahing pagpapahalaga ni Butch ay gumagabay sa kanyang 
mga desisyon, na tinitiyak na kinakatawan niya ang pinakamahusay na interes ng lahat ng miyembro 
ng ating komunidad. Kung mahahalal, nangangako siyang makikinig sa mga pangangailangan ng 
komunidad, makipagtulungan sa mga pinuno sa ating komunidad, at magpapatuloy sa mga pagsisikap 
na gawing isang abot-kayang lugar ang Kaua’i upang manirahan, umunlad, at magpalaki ng pamilya 
para sa ating populasyon. Nagpapasalamat si Butch sa kanyang pamilya, kaibigan, at komunidad para 
sa kanilang suporta.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KEAHIOLALO, W. Butch
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
William Butch Keahiolalo 
Miyembro ng konseho
butchkeahiolalo@gmail.com
(808) 635-0388
 Aloha kakou! Kasalukuyan akong naglilingkod bilang Bise Tagapangulo ng Konseho, 
Tagapangulo ng Housing & Intergovernmental Relations Committee at Bise Tagapangulo ng Finance 
& Economic Development Committee. Nagsisilbi rin ako bilang isa sa mga kinatawan ng Hawai`i sa 
National Association of Counties (NACo) Board. Mayroon akong halos apatnapung taong karanasan sa 
pagtatrabaho sa Gobyerno, Mga Unyon sa Paggawa, Mga Non-Profit at Organisasyon ng Komunidad. 
Sa oras na iyon, napatunayan ko ang sarili ko bilang masipag, mapagkakatiwalaan at maalalahanin. 
Naipakita ko rin ang dedikasyon ko sa serbisyo publiko, ang karanasan ko sa patakaran sa 
pambatasan, ang aking lakas sa pagbabadyet, ang aking pag-unawa sa mga isyu at ang pangako ko 
na palaging gawin ang aking takdang-aralin, pakikinig nang mabuti at pagtutulungan. Higit sa lahat, 
mahal na mahal ko ang Kaua`i at Ni`ihau at nangangako akong palaging gagawa ng pagbabago! 
Mapagpakumbaba akong humihingi ng isa sa inyong pitong boto. Mangyaring bumoto din ng hindi 
bababa sa apat o lima sa aming mga kandidato upang palakasin at palaguin ang aming kinatawan na 
demokrasya. Mahalo nui loa!!!
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
KUALII, KipuKai
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
KipuKai L.P. Kualii 
Miyembro ng konseho
kipukai.kualii@gmail.com
(808) 652-3684
 Walang Isinumiteng Pahayag
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
NELSON, Jacquelyn (Jakki)
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Jacquelyn N. Nelson 
Miyembro ng konseho
nelson5599@twc.com
(808) 631-82252024 GABAY NG BOTANTE 
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan78Miyembro ng konseho ng County ng Kauai
 Hinahangad kong maihalal ulit sa Kauai County Council dahil naniniwala ako sa 
kapangyarihan ng positibong pagbabago at sa potensiyal ng pamahalaan na magkaroon ng mabuting 
epekto sa buhay ng mamamayan. Ang aking kaseryosohan ay nakaugat sa tunay na kagustuhang 
matugunan ang maiinit na usaping kinakaharap ng ating komunidad. Matapos masaksihan ang 
mga hamon na kinakaharap ng maraming indibidwal at pamilya, determinado akong itaguyod ang 
mga polisiyang magpapalaganap ng pagiging kabilang, pagkakapantay-pantay, at pag-unlad. Dahil 
sa karanasan ko sa paglilingkod sa komunidad at dedikasyon ko sa pakikipagtulungan, kaya kong 
pagkaisahin ang mga tao at pagsikapang maabot ang mga solusyon na pakikinabangan ng lahat. 
Hindi ako itinutulak ng personal na ambisyon, kung hindi ng malalim na pagtanaw sa responsibilidad 
na mag-ambag sa kaayusan ng ating lipunan. Sa pamamagitan ng pagtakbo sa posisyon, layunin 
kong magdala ng mga bagong pananaw, malinaw na komunikasyon, at matibay na dedikasyon sa 
paglilingkod sa interes ng publiko.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
RAPOZO, Mel
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Melvin F. Rapozo 
Miyembro ng konseho
www.melforcouncil.org
melrapozo@gmail.com
(808) 645-0243
 Bart J Thomas Bart J Thomas County of Kauai Non-partisan (808)635-8466 email - Bart@
voteforbartKauai.com Website -voteforbartkauai.com Dedikado akong kumilos, at kinakatawan ko ang 
kasabihang “Actions speak louder than words.” Sa buong panahon ng COVID pandemic, naglingkod ako 
bilang nakatuon na miyembro ng lupon ng Salvation Army ng Kauai, at nagbigay ng napakahalagang 
suporta sa ating komunidad ng mga walang tirahan. Bilang mapagmalaking beterano at aktibong 
miyembro ng komunidad ng Kauai, seryoso akong tumulong. Nakapagtamo ng napakalaking suporta 
ang iba’t ibang pagsisikap ko para makapaglikom ng pondo, na nagresulta sa malalaking pagbabago sa 
Veterans Center complex, kabilang ang bagong solar na bubong at inayos ang Military Museum. Nag-
sponsor na ako ng mga programa tulad ng Vacation for Warriors, kung saan nagkaroon ng pagkakataon 
ang mga sugatang beterano na muling makaugnayan ang kanilang mga pamilya sa sitwasyong 
mapayapa, at malayo sa puwersang pagbisita sa ospital. Dagdag dito, sinuportahan ko ang Children’s 
Dream Foundation, na nagkakaloob ng mga pangarap na bakasyon sa mga batang nakikipaglaban 
sa kanser at nag-aalok sa kanila at sa mga pamilya nila ng panahon para maging masaya at 
makapagpahinga.
PANGALAN NG BALOTA:
THOMAS, Bart
LEGAL NA PANGALAN:
Bart J. Thomas 
Miyembro ng konseho
Bart@voteforbartkauai.com
(808) 635-8466
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan79
Mga Pagbabago sa Karta Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Konstitusyon ng Estado ng Hawaii sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG ESTADO NG HAWAII, 
KAGAWARAN NG PANGKALAHATANG ABOGADO
KATANUNGAN #1: Pagtanggal ng Ispesipikong Pananalita na Nauukol 
sa Awtoridad ng Lehislatura na Ireserba ang Kasal sa mga Magkaiba 
ang Kasarian
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang konstitusyon ng estado upang pawalang-bisa ang awtoridad ng 
lehislatura na ireserba ang kasal sa mga magkaiba ang kasarian?
PALIWANAG
Ang iminumungkahing amyenda ay mag-aalis ng ispesipikong pananalita sa Konstitusyon 
ng Estado ng Hawaii na nagbigay sa Lehislatura ng awtoridad na ireserba ang kasal sa mga 
magkaiba ang kasarian.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “OO”
Ang botong “oo” ay mag-aalis ng ispesipikong pananalita sa Konstitusyon ng Estado ng Hawaii na 
nagbigay sa Lehislatura ng awtoridad na ireserba ang kasal sa mga magkaiba ang kasarian.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “HINDI”
Ang botong “hindi” ay walang gagawing pagbabago sa Konstitusyon ng Estado ng Hawaii at 
pananatilihin ang ispesipikong pananalita sa Konstitusyon ng Estado ng Hawaii na nagbigay sa 
Lehislatura ng awtoridad na ireserba ang kasal sa mga magkaiba ang kasarian.
KAHULUGAN NG BLANGKONG BOTO O SOBRANG BOTO
Ang isang “blangkong” boto ay hindi ibinibilang bilang isang botong “oo” o botong “hindi” sa 
tanong.  Sa halip ang isang “blangkong” boto ay ibinibilang lamang para sa kabuuang bilang 
ng mga ipinatalang boto.  Tulad nito, ang isang “sobrang” boto ay hindi ibinibilang bilang isang 
botong “oo” o botong “hindi” sa tanong.  Sa halip ang isang “blangkong” boto ay ibinibilang 
lamang para sa kabuuang bilang ng mga ipinatalang boto.
Upang ang isang iminumungkahing amyenda sa Konstitusyon ng Estado ng Hawaii ay 
maratipika, ito ay dapat aprubahan ng isang mayoriya ng lahat ng botong binilang para sa 
tanong (iyon ay, tanging mga botong “oo” at “hindi”).Bilang karagdagan, ang mayoriyang ito ay 
dapat buuin ng hindi bababa sa limampung porsiyento ng mga kabuuang botong ipinatala sa 
halalan (iyon ay mga botong “oo,” “hindi,” “blangko,” at “sobra”).
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta 
sa elections.hawaii.gov  o tumawag 
sa mga number (808) 453-8683.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
80Mga Pagbabago sa Karta Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Konstitusyon ng Estado ng Hawaii sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG ESTADO NG HAWAII, KAGAWARAN NG PANGKALAHATANG ABOGADO
KATANUNGAN #2: Paggawa sa Proseso ng Pagkumpirma 
ng Senado para sa mga Paghirang na Panghukuman na Mas 
Magkakapareho
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Konstitusyon ng Estado ng Hawaii upang gawin 
ang proseso ng paghirang at pagkumpirma para sa mga hukom ng hukuman 
ng distrito na katulad ng proseso ng paghirang at pagkumpirma para sa mga 
mahistrado ng korte suprema at mga hukom ng intermedyang hukuman ng 
paghahabol at mga hukom ng circuit court, na mag-aatas na:
(1) Ang Komisyon sa Pagpiling Panghukuman ay maghaharap sa Punong 
Mahistrado ng isang listahan ng hindi bababa sa apat at hindi hihigit sa anim na 
nominado para sa isang pagkabakante;
(2) Ang isang hinirang sa hukuman ng distrito ay awtomatikong ituturing na 
hinirang kung ang Senado ay nabigong tanggihan ang paghirang sa loob ng 
tatlumpung araw ng pagtanggap ng paunawa ng paghirang;
(3) Ang Punong Mahistrado ay gagawa ng isa pang paghirang mula sa listahan 
ng mga nominado sa hukuman ng distrito sa loob ng sampung araw kung 
tinanggihan ng Senado ang paghirang; at
(4) Ang pamamaraan ng paghirang at pagsang-ayon ay susundin hanggang 
ang isang balidong paghirang ay magawa, o kung hindi, ang Komisyon sa 
Pagpiling Panghukuman ay gagawa ng paghirang mula sa isang listahan ng mga 
nominado, nang walang pagsang-ayon ng Senado?
PALIWANAG
Ang kasalukuyang proseso ng pagkumpirma ng Senado para sa mga paghirang 
na panghukuman na ginagawa ng Gobernador sa Korte Suprema ng Hawaii, sa 
Intermedyang Hukuman ng mga Paghahabol, at sa mga Circuit Court ay iba sa 
proseso ng pagkumpirma ng Senado para sa mga paghirang na panghukuman 
na ginagawa ng Punong Mahistrado sa mga Hukuman ng Distrito ng Estado.  Ang 
layunin ng amyendang ito sa artikulo VI, seksyon 3, ng Konstitusyon ng Estado 
ng Hawaii ay gawin ang proseso ng paghirang at pagsang-ayon ng Senado para 
sa mga hukom ng hukuman ng distrito na katulad ng proseso ng paghirang at 
pagsang-ayon ng Senado para sa ibang mga hukom at mahistrado.
Sa ilalim ng kasalukuyang proseso ng pagsang-ayon ng Senado para sa mga 
hukom ng hukuman ng distrito, ang isang hinirang sa hukuman ng distrito ay 
awtomatikong ituturing na tinanggihan kung hindi sinang-ayunan ng Senado sa 
loob ng tatlumpung araw ng pagtanggap ng paghirang.  Dahil ang Lehislatura 
ng Estado ng Hawaii ay isang bahaging-oras na lehislatura, ang Senado ay dapat 
tumawag ng mga espesyal na sesyon sa buong taon para sa tanging dahilan ng 
pagsang-ayon sa mga paghirang sa hukuman ng distrito.
Ang amyendang ito ay magpapahintulot sa mga paghirang sa hukuman 
ng distrito na awtomatikong ituring na sinang-ayunan kung ang Senado ay 
nabigong tumanggi sa paghirang sa loob ng tatlumpung araw.  Gagawin ng 
pagbabagong ito na magkakatulad ang mga pamamaraan para sa proseso ng 
pagkumpirma ng Senado para sa lahat ng paghirang na panghukuman, ginawa 
man ang paghirang ng Gobernador o ng Punong Mahistrado.KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “OO”
Gagawin ng botong “oo” ang proseso ng paghirang at pagkumpirma para sa 
mga hukom ng hukuman ng distrito na katulad ng proseso ng paghirang at 
pagkumpirma para sa mga mahistrado ng korte suprema at mga hukom ng 
intermedyang hukuman ng paghahabol at mga hukom ng circuit court.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “HINDI”
Ang botong "hindi" ay walang gagawing pagbabago sa Konstitusyon ng Estado 
ng Hawaii at pananatilihin ang ibang proseso ng paghirang sa mga hukom ng 
hukuman ng distrito na hinirang ng Punong Mahistrado kumpara sa proseso 
para sa mga mahistrado ng korte suprema at mga hukom ng intermedyang 
hukuman ng paghahabol at circuit court na hinirang ng Gobernador.
KAHULUGAN NG BLANGKONG BOTO O SOBRANG BOTO
Ang isang “blangkong” boto ay hindi ibinibilang bilang isang botong “oo” o 
botong “hindi” sa tanong.  Sa halip ang isang “blangkong” boto ay ibinibilang 
lamang para sa kabuuang bilang ng mga ipinatalang boto.  Tulad nito, ang isang 
“sobrang” boto ay hindi ibinibilang bilang isang botong “oo” o botong “hindi” 
sa tanong.  Sa halip ang isang “blangkong” boto ay ibinibilang lamang para sa 
kabuuang bilang ng mga ipinatalang boto.
Upang ang isang iminumungkahing amyenda sa Konstitusyon ng Estado ng 
Hawaii ay maratipika, ito ay dapat aprubahan ng isang mayoriya ng lahat ng 
botong binilang para sa tanong (iyon ay, tanging mga botong “oo” at “hindi”).
Bilang karagdagan, ang mayoriyang ito ay dapat buuin ng hindi bababa sa 
limampung porsiyento ng mga kabuuang botong ipinatala sa halalan (iyon ay 
mga botong “oo,” “hindi,” “blangko,” at “sobra”).
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan81Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng County ng Hawaii sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG COUNTY NG HAWAII, KAGAWARAN NG ABOGADO NG KORPORASYON
KATANUNGAN #1: Pagkabakante sa Katungkulan sa Konseho ng 
County
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Karta ng County ng Hawai‘i upang itadhana na 
ang anumang pagkabakante sa Konseho ng County na nangyeari pagkatapos 
angkop na ihalal ang isang tao upang punuan ang puwesto para sa darating na 
termino ng County ay dapat punuan ng angkop na inihalal na kapalit para sa 
natitira ng hindi pa tapos ng termino?
PALIWANAG
Ang mungkahing ito ay naglilinaw na kapag nangyari ang pagkabakante 
sa Konseho ng County, ang isang mayoriya ng natitirang mga miyembro ng 
Konseho ay dapat maghirang ng isang kapalit sa pamamagitan ng pagpasa 
ng isang resolusyon para sa natitira ng hindi pa pa tapos ng termino.  Bilang 
karagdagan, ito ay nagdaragdag ng mga bagong probisyon na nag-aatas sa 
Konseho na punuan ang pagkabakante ng isang taong inihalal upang punuan 
ang puwesto pero hindi pa nakukuha ang katungkulan.  Halimbawa, kung ang 
isang miyembro ng konseho ay nagbitiw pagkatapos ng isang halalan pero bago 
magsimula ang isang bagong termino, at kung ang kapalit ay angkop na inihalal, 
aatasan ang Konseho na hirangin ang angkop na inihalal na kapalit upang 
paglingkuran ang natitira sa hindi pa tapos na termino.  Ang iminumungkahing 
amyenda ay nagtatadhana rin na ang natitira sa hindi pa tapos na termino na 
pinaglingkuran ng isang miyembro ng konseho na pupuno sa pagkabakante ay 
hindi dapat ilapat sa limitasyon sa termino na nakalagay sa Seksyon 3-2 ng Karta 
ng County ng Hawai‘i.
KATANUNGAN #2: Paghirang ng Alkalde sa mga Puno ng 
Kagawaran
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Karta ng County ng Hawai‘i upang atasan 
ang Alkalde na maghirang ng mga puno ng kagawaran sa loob ng 30 araw 
ng pagsisimula ng bawat termino ng alkalde at sa loob ng 60 araw para sa 
anumang pagkabakante sa katungkulan na nangyari sa termino ng alkalde?
PALIWANAG
Ang mungkahi ay nagtatatag ng mga huling araw para maghirang ang Alkalde 
ng mga puno ng kagawaran sa pagkuha ng katungkulan at kapag nangyari ang 
mga pagkabakante.KATANUNGAN #3: Termino ng Katungkulan para sa Komisyon 
sa Gastos ng Pamahalaan
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Karta ng County ng Hawai‘i upang dagdagan ang 
tagal ng termino ng mga miyembro ng Komisyon sa Gastos ng Pamahalaan mula 
sa labing-isa patungo sa dalawampu’t-dalawang buwan at palawigin ang huling 
araw para magsumite ang Komisyon ng ulat nito mula sa labing-isang buwan 
pagkatapos ng paghirang patungo sa dalawampung buwan pagkatapos ng 
paghirang?
PALIWANAG
Ang mungkahing ito ay nagdaragdag ng tagal ng termino para sa mga miyembro 
ng Komisyon sa Gastos ng Pamahalaan mula sa labing-isang buwan patungo 
sa dalawampu’t-dalawang buwan.  Kung aprubahan, ang mga termino ng mga 
miyembro ng komisyon ay magsisimula labingwalong buwan pagkatapos ng 
pagsisimula ng termino ng alkalde at tatagal ng dalawampu’t dalawang buwan.  
Bilang karagdagan, ang amyenda ay magpapalawig sa huling araw ng pagsumite 
ng Komisyon ng ulat nito mula sa labing-isang buwan pagkatapos ng paghirang 
patungo sa dalawampung buwan pagkatapos ng paghirang.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta sa 
www.hawaiicounty.gov/charteramendments  
o tumawag sa mga number (808) 961-8255.
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
82Mga Pagbabago sa Karta Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng County ng Maui sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG COUNTY NG MAUI, 
KAGAWARAN NG ABOGADO NG KORPORASYON
KATANUNGAN #1: Komisyon sa Suweldo
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Karta upang atasan ang Komisyon sa Suweldo na pagpasyahan 
ang “mga suweldo” sa halip ng “kabayaran”para sa mga inihalal na opisyal at hinirang na 
direktor at mga diputadong direktor upang panatilihin ang pagkakatugma sa Konstitusyon ng 
Estado ng Hawaii at tanggalin ang mga hadlang sa pananalapi upang lumikha ng equity sa 
pamamagitan ng mga benepisyong tulad ng pagsasauli ng mga gastos sa paglalakbay?
PALIWANAG
Sa kasalukuyan, ang Artikulo 8, Kabanata 17 ng Binagong Karta ng County ng Maui ay nagsasaad 
na ang Komisyon sa Suweldo para sa County ng Maui “ay dapat magpasya ng kabayaran ng mga 
inihalal na opisyal at hinirang na mga direktor ng lahat ng kagawaran ng county.” (idinagdag ang 
pagbibigay-diin).  Ang Artikulo XVI, Seksyon 3.5 ng Konstituson ng Estado ng Hawaii at kaugnay 
na mga probisyon ng mga Karta para sa ibang mga County, ay gumagamit ng terminong “mga 
suweldo” sa halip ng terminong “kabayaran.”  Ang amyendang ito ay naghahangad na linawin 
na ang Komisyon sa Suweldo para sa County ng Maui ay dapat magtatag ng mga suweldo 
lamang ng mga inihalal na opisyal at hinirang na diputadong direktor, at hindi ng “kabayaran,” na 
maaaring mas malawak na bigyang-kahulugan upang isama ang ibang mga benepisyong tulad 
ng mga gastos sa paglalakbay para sa mga opisyal o hinirang na nakatira sa Lanai o Molokai at 
dapat maglakbay patungo sa Maui para sa kanilang mga posisyon.  Ang ibang mga naturang 
benepisyo ay pamamahalaan ng Konseho o ng Alkalde.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “OO”
Ang botong “oo” ay nangangahulugang ang Komisyon sa Suweldo ay magpapasya sa mga 
suweldo ng inihalal na mga opisyal at hinirang na mga direktor at diputadong direktor ng County 
ng Maui.  Ito ay hindi magsasama ng ibang posibleng mga benepisyong kabayaran na tulad ng 
pagsasauli para sa paglalakbay para sa mga opisyal at hinirang na nakatira sa Lanai o Molokai 
at dapat maglakbay patungo sa Maui para sa kanilang mga posisyon, na, pamamahalaan ng 
Konseho o ng Alkalde.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “HINDI”
Ang botong “hindi” ay nangangahulugang ang Komisyon sa Suweldo ay patuloy na magpapasya 
sa “kabayaran” ng inihalal na mga opisyal at hinirang na mga direktor at diputadong direktor ng 
County ng Maui, na maaaring kabilang ang mga benepisyong lampas sa mga suweldo.
KAHULUGAN NG BLANGKONG BOTO O SOBRANG BOTO
Ang isang blangkong boto o sobrang boto ay hindi isasama sa pagbilang sa pagpapasya kung 
ang isang mayoriya ng mga manghahalal sa tanong ay bumoto nang pabor sa pagpapatibay.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta 
sa www.mauicountyvotes.gov  
o tumawag sa mga number 
(808)  270-7749.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan83Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng County ng Maui sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG COUNTY NG MAUI, 
KAGAWARAN NG ABOGADO NG KORPORASYON
KATANUNGAN #2: Independiyenteng mga Tauhan para sa Lupon ng Etika
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Karta, simula sa Hulyo 1, 2025, upang awtorisahan ang Lupon ng 
Etika ng County ng Maui na kumuha ng mga independiyenteng tauhan?
PALIWANAG
Sa kasalukuyan, ang Lupon ng Etika ng County ng Maui ay walang sariling independiyente, 
buong oras na mga tauhan.  Sa halip, itinatalaga sa Lupon ng Etika ang isang Diputadong 
Abogado ng Korporasyon at isang kalihim, pareho ay nagtatrabaho sa Kagawaran ng Abogado 
ng Korporasyon at parehong may iba’t ibang mga tungkulin na nakahiwalay sa kanilang trabaho 
sa ngalan ng Lupon ng Etika.  Dagdag dito, ang Karta ay naggagawad ng ilang kapangyarihan 
ng Lupon ng Etika sa Lupon mismo, sa halip na sa mga tauhan nito.  Ang amyendang ito ay 
magpapahintulot sa Lupon ng Etika na kumuha ng sariling independiyenteng mga tauhan, at 
magbibigay ng kakayahan sa mga tauhan na magsagawa ng mga partikular na aksyon, kabilang 
ang pagkakaloob ng di-pormal na mga opinyon at payo sa etika, pagsusuri ng mga pagsisiwalat 
ng pananalapi at mga paghaharap ng tagalobi, at pagsisikap na kaugnay mga reklamo sa etika.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “OO”
Ang botong “oo” ay nangangahulugang magagawa ng Lupon ng Etika na kumuha ng sarili 
nitong independiyenteng mga tauhan, na maaaring gumanap ng mga ispesipikong tungkulin na 
kinabibilangan ng pagkakaloob ng di-pormal na mga opinyon at payo sa etika, pagsusuri ng mga 
pagsisiwalat ng pananalapi at mga paghaharap ng tagalobi, at pagsisikap na kaugnay ng mga 
reklamo sa etika.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “HINDI”
Ang botong “hindi” ay nangangahulugang ang mga tauhan ng Lupon ng Etika ay patuloy na 
magmumula sa Kagawaran ng Abogado ng Korporasyon na limitado sa mga tungkulin na 
magagampanan nila sa ngalan ng Lupon ng Etika.
KAHULUGAN NG BLANGKONG BOTO O SOBRANG BOTO
Ang isang blangkong boto o sobrang boto ay hindi isasama sa pagbilang sa pagpapasya kung 
ang isang mayoriya ng mga manghahalal sa tanong ay bumoto nang pabor sa pagpapatibay.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta 
sa www.mauicountyvotes.gov  
o tumawag sa mga number 
(808)  270-7749.
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
84Mga Pagbabago sa Karta Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng County ng Maui sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG COUNTY NG MAUI, 
KAGAWARAN NG ABOGADO NG KORPORASYON
KATANUNGAN #3: Mga Termino ng Lupon at Komisyon
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Karta, simula sa Hulyo 1, 2025, upang paliitin hanggang maaari 
ang panganib ng mga pagkabakante sa mga lupon at komisyon sa pangkalahatan, at partikular 
na nauukol sa mga nakalaang puwesto para sa mga miyembrong naninirahan sa hindi gaanong 
mataong lugar, sa pamamagitan ng paghirang sa mga miyembro ng mga lupon at komisyon para 
sa dalawang magkasunod na buong termino o sampung magkakasunod na taon, alinman ang 
mas matagal?
PALIWANAG
Sa kasalukuyan, ang Seksyon 13-2(5) ng Karta ng County ng Maui ay hindi nagpapahintulot 
sa mga miyembro ng lupon o komisyon na hirangin sa isang ikalawang buong termino sa 
kaparehong lupon o komisyon sa loob ng isang panahon na dalawang taon pagkatapos ng 
kanilang termino.  Ang amyendang ito ay magpapahintulot sa mga miyembro ng isang lupon o 
komisyon na hirangin para sa dalawang magkasunod na buong termino, o para sa hanggang 
sampung taon, alinman ang mas matagal.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “OO”
Ang botong “oo” ay nangangahulugang ang mga miyembro ng isang lupon o komisyon ay 
maaaring hirangin sa isang ikalawang kasunod na buong termino sa kaparehong lupon 
o komisyon.
KAHULUGAN NG BOTONG “HINDI”
Ang botong “oo” ay nangangahulugang ang mga miyembro ng isang lupon o komisyon ay 
maaaring hirangin sa isang ikalawang kasunod na buong termino sa kaparehong lupon 
o komisyon.
KAHULUGAN NG BLANGKONG BOTO O SOBRANG BOTO
Ang isang blangkong boto o sobrang boto ay hindi isasama sa pagbilang sa pagpapasya kung 
ang isang mayoriya ng mga manghahalal sa tanong ay bumoto nang pabor sa pagpapatibay.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta 
sa www.mauicountyvotes.gov  
o tumawag sa mga number 
(808)  270-7749.
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan85Mga Pagbabago sa Karta Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng County ng Kauai sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG COUNTY NG KAUAI, 
OPISINA NG ABOGADO NG COUNTY
AMYENDA 1: May Kaugnayan sa mga Imbestigasyon ng Komisyon sa Pulisya.
KATANUNGAN
Ang 90-araw na bintana ng Komisyon sa Pulisya para sa pag-uulat ng mga nakasulat na 
resulta ng imbestigasyon ay dapat bang magsimula kapag natanggap ng Komisyon ang ulat 
ng imbestigasyon ?
LAYUNIN
Itong Amyenda sa Karta ay magkakaloob sa Komisyon sa Pulisya ng sapat na panahon upang 
magsagawa ng masusing mga imbestigasyon kapag ang mga miyembro ng publiko ay nagdala 
ng mga habla laban sa Kagawaran ng Pulisya o mga miyembro nito.
PINAGDAANAN
Ang pananalita ng Karta (Karta ng County ng Kaua’i, seksyon 11.03.C.) ay kasalukuyang 
nagsasabi na ang Komisyon sa Pulisya ay dapat, “Tumanggap, magsasaalang-alang, at mag-
imbistiga ng mga hablang dinala ng publiko laban sa pagkilos ng kagawaran o sinuman sa 
mga miyembro nito at magsumite ng isang nakasulat na ulat ng mga napag-alaman sa hepe 
ng pulisya sa loob ng siyamnapung araw.” Ang pananalitang ito ay hindi malinaw dahil ang 
ilang imbestigasyon ay maaaring umabot ng 90 araw para makumpleto.Ang amyendang ito ay 
maglilinaw na ang Komisyon ay dapat magsumite ng isang nakasulat na ulat ng mga napag-
alaman nito sa Hepe ng Pulisya sa loob ng 90 araw pagkaraang makumpleto ang imbestigasyon. 
Ang panukalang ito ay maghihiwalay sa imbestigasyon at pag-uulat, nagpapahintulot na ituloy 
ang imbestigasyon hanggang ang mga resulta nito ay iulat sa Komisyon. Ang Komisyon ay 
magkakaroon naman ng 90 araw upang ihanda at iharap ang ulat nito sa Hepe ng Pulisya.
AMYENDA 2: May kaugnayan sa mga Ulat ng Komisyon sa Pagkonrol 
sa Gastos.
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang awtorisahan ang Komisyon sa Pagkontrol sa Gastos na magrekomenda ng tinaasang 
mga gastos kung ang mga ito ay inaasahang lilikha ng mga matitipid o pagkaepisyente sa gastos 
sa hinaharap?
LAYUNIN
Ang amyendang ito ay maggagawad sa Komisyon sa Pagkontrol sa Gastos ng mas malaking 
kakayahang mag-agpang sa pagrekomenda ng pagpapahusay ng pagkaepisyene ng 
pamahalaan at sa pagkakamit ng mga pangmatagalang pagbawas sa gastos ng pagkakaloob ng 
mga serbisyo ng pamahalaan.
PINAGDAANAN
Ang Komisyon sa Pagkontrol sa Gastos ng County ay inaawtorisahan na magrekomenda ng 
mga hakbang na nag-aalis ng mga programa at serbisyo at nagbabawas ng mga gastos (Karta 
ng County ng Kaua’i, Seksyon 28.04.) Ang komisyon ay nagpasya na sa ilang kaso, ang pagtaas 
sa paggasta ay maaaring magresulta sa mas matagal na pagkaepisyente o matitipid. Ang isang 
pagbabago sa pananalita ng karta ay maggagawad sa komisyon ng karagdagang kakayahan 
na mag-agpang na kinakailangan nito upang makamit ang misyon nito na bawasan ang gastos 
ng pamahalaan habang nagpapanatili ng isang makatwirang antas ng mga serbisyo sa publiko. 
Tala: Anumang mga rekomendasyon ng komisyon ay mag-aatas ng pag-apruba ng pareho ng 
Konseho ng County at Alkalde bago ang pagpapatibay.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, 
pumunta sa kauai.gov/Charter  
o tumawag sa mga number 
(808) 241-4881.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan86
Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng County ng Kauai sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG COUNTY NG KAUAI, 
OPISINA NG ABOGADO NG COUNTY
AMYENDA 3: May Kaugnayan sa Paggamit ng Publiko, Bukas na Espasyo at 
Pondo sa Pangangalaga ng mga Likas na Yaman.
KATANUNGAN
Ang hanggang 5% ng Pondo sa Bukas na Espasyo ng Couny ay dapat bang makuha para sa 
pagpapananitili ng mga lupa, mga karapatan sa ari-arian, o pagpapahusay na binabayaran 
ng Pondo?
LAYUNIN
Itong Amyendang ito sa Karta ay naghahangad na tiyakin na ang mga ari-ariang 
pinoprotektahan ng Pondo sa Pangangalaga ng Paggamit ng Publiko, Bukas na Espasyo at mga 
Likas na Yaman ay may mga tagatulong upang magkaloob ng ilang suporta sa pangangasiwa.
PINAGDAANAN
Ang Pondo sa Pangangalaga ng Paggamit ng Publiko, Bukas na Espasyo at mga Likas na Yaman 
ng County (Karta ng County ng Kaua’i, Seksyon 19.15.C.) ay nilalayon unang-una sa pagtatamo ng 
mga lupa para sa mga layuning tinukoy sa titulo nito, tinitiyak ang paggamit ng publiko, bukas 
na espasyo at pangangalaga ng mga likas na yaman. Gayunman, ang county ay nahirapang 
maghanda upang ang mga grupo ng boluntaryo o entidad na di-nagtutubo ay makagawa ng 
pangmatagalang pagpapanatili at pangangasiwa ng mga ari-arian at mga pagpapahusay. Ito 
ay partikular na totoo sa pangangalaga ng mga proyektong sensitibo sa ekonolohiya at kultura. 
Ang panukalang ito ay magpapahintulot sa isang maliit na bahagi ng Pondo na gamitin upang 
suportahan ang pangangasiwa. Bilang halimbawa, ito ay magagamit upang bumili ng mga tabla 
o mga suplay sa pagpapanatili upang tulungan ang mga boluntaryong nangangasiwa sa mga 
gastos na kung hindi ay hindi nila magagawang likumin.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, 
pumunta sa kauai.gov/Charter  
o tumawag sa mga number 
(808) 241-4881.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan87Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng County ng Kauai sa 2024 Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng County ng Kauai sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG NA ITO AY IPINAGKALOOB NG COUNTY NG KAUAI, 
OPISINA NG ABOGADO NG COUNTY
AMYENDA 4: Mga Kaugnayan sa mga Surety Bond.
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Karta upang ipahintulot ang paggamit ng mga polisa sa seguro 
para sa partikular o lahat ng empleyado upang protektahan ang County laban sa kawalan 
sa pananalapi?
LAYUNIN
Ang amyendang ito ay magbibigay sa County ng kakayahang mag-agpang sa pagbili ng seguro 
o mga surety bond upang masaklaw ang mga empleyado ng county at protektahan ang county 
laban sa kawalan o pagnanakaw ng pananalapi.
PINAGDAANAN
Sa kasalukuyan ang Karta ng County ng Kaua’i, Seksyon 19.17 ay nagsasaad, may mga partikular 
na opisyal at empleyado na kinakailangang may bond. Sa nakaraan, ang mga surety bond ay 
nagkaloob ng pinansiyal na garantiya laban sa kawalan o pagnanakaw na kaugnay ng pagganap 
ng mga opisyal na tungkulin ng isang opisina. Ang mga surety bond, gayunman, ay maaaring 
hindi nakahanda ngayon. Ang seguro ay maaaring magkaloob ng kaparehong proteksiyon para 
sa lahat ng empleyado sa mas mababang halaga.
Ang pag-amyenda ng isang bahagi ng seksyon 19.17 ay magbibigay sa County ng kakayahang 
mag-agpang upang bumili ng mga polisa na may pinakamahusay na pagsaklaw, mga benepisyo 
at halaga ito man ay mga surety bond, seguro, o pareho. Ang hangarin nitong amyenda sa 
karta ay upang makakuha ng mga pinakamahusay na polisa para sa County, para sa lahat ng 
empleyado at upang mas mahusay na pamahalaan ang kabuuang mga gastos.
AMYENDA 5: May Kaugnayan sa Dahil-sa-katungkulan na Posisyon ng 
Kabataan sa mga Lupon at Komisyon ng County.
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Karta upang itatag ang dahil-sa-katungkulan na mga posisyon 
para sa mga kabataan sa mga Lupon at Komisyon upang punuan ng mga junior o senior sa 
mataas na paaralan na residente na Kaua‘i?
LAYUNIN
Ang amyendang ito ay magpapahintulot sa isang estudyante ng Kaua’i na matuto tungkol sa 
pamahalaan at sibiko sa pamamagitan ng paglahok bilang isang dahil-sa-katungkulan na 
miyembro ng mga lupon at komisyon.
PINAGDAANAN
Upang magkaloob ng boses para sa mga kabataan sa mga Lupon at Komisyon gayon din 
bilang pagkakataong pang-edukasyon para sa mga estudyante, ang amyendang ito ay lilikha 
ng mga puwesto para sa mga junior o senior ng mataas na paaralan sa mga lupon at komisyon 
sa pamamagitan ng pagdagdag ng isang subseksyon O sa Seksyon 23.02 ng Karta ng County 
ng Kaua’i.
Ang dahil-sa-katungkulan na mga posisyon ng estudyante ay pupunuan ng mga residente ng 
Kaua’i. Ang mga naturang miyembro ay maaaring lumahok sa mga talakayan ng komisyon pero 
hindi boboto, hindi ibibilang para sa quorum, at hindi lalahok sa mga ehekutibong sesyon.Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, 
pumunta sa kauai.gov/Charter  
o tumawag sa mga number 
(808) 241-4881.2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
88Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng Lungsod ng Honolulu sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG AY IPINAGKALOOB NG LUNGSOD AT COUNTY NG 
HONOLULU, KAGAWARAN NG ABOGADO NG KORPORASYON
KATANUNGAN #1
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Nirebisang Karta ng Lungsod para hilingin na magtalaga ang 
Konseho ng Lungsod, nang hindi naman isasabay ang pagtaas ng buwis ng mga lupain at gusali 
para pondohan ang layuning ito, ng kalahati ng isang porsiyento ng nakalkulang taunang kita 
mula sa buwis ng mga lupain at gusali ng Lungsod, na idedeposito sa Pondo sa Pagharap sa 
Hamon sa Klima, na ang layunin ay suportahan ang mga pagsisikap at proyekto upang bawasan 
ang epekto ng pagbabago ng klima, patatagin ang imprastraktura at komunidad ng Lungsod, at 
itaguyod ang mga mabubuting kaugalian?
Kasalukuyang Sitwasyon
Kasalukuyang walang Climate Resiliency Fund. Ang pagpopondo upang suportahan ang 
mga inisyatiba at proyekto na naglalayong pagaanin ang mga epekto ng pagbabago ng klima, 
pagpapahusay ng katatagan ng mga imprastraktura at komunidad ng Lungsod, at pagtataguyod 
ng mga napapanatiling gawi ay kasalukuyang sinusuri at pinopondohan taun-taon ng Konseho 
ng Lungsod ng Honolulu sa pamamagitan man ng Executive Operating Budget o ng Executive 
Capitol Budget at Programa.
Kung Pumasa ang Panukala
Lilikha ng Climate Resiliency Fund na tutustusan ang mga hakbang sa pag-iwas, 
pagpapanumbalik at pang-edukasyon na may kaugnayan sa pagbabago ng klima, at 
popondohan ng kalahati ng isang porsyento ng tinantyang taunang kita ng buwis sa real 
property ng Lungsod. Ang pariralang, "nang hindi kinakailangang sabay-sabay na taasan ang 
mga pagsingil ng buwis sa real property upang pondohan ang mga paglalaan," gayunpaman, 
ay hindi dapat pakahulugan upang limitahan ang kapangyarihan ng Konseho ng Lungsod 
ng Honolulu na taasan ang mga buwis sa real property sa parehong taon kung kailan 
pinopondohan nito ang Climate Resiliency Fund
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta 
sa honoluluelections.us .
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan89Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng Lungsod ng Honolulu sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG AY IPINAGKALOOB NG LUNGSOD AT COUNTY NG 
HONOLULU, KAGAWARAN NG ABOGADO NG KORPORASYON
KATANUNGAN #2
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Nirebisang Karta ng Lungsod para itakda ang Departamento ng Paghahanda 
at Pagresponde sa Emerhensiya bilang bukod na ahensiya ng Ehekutibong Sangay ng Lungsod sa 
pamamagitan ng pagtatalaga sa Departamento ng Paghahanda at Pagresponde sa Emerhensiya ng isang 
hiwalay na kabanata sa Karta ng Lungsod katulad ng mga kabanata na naitalaga para sa iba pang mga 
departamento ng Lungsod; upang ipakita na ang lahat ng posisyon sa Departamento ng Paghahanda at 
Pagresponde sa Emerhensiya, kabilang ang kaniyang Direktor at Katulong na Direktor, ay sakop ng mga 
batas ng serbisyo sibil; at upang espesipikong banggitin ang mga minimum level ng kuwalipikasyon para 
sa posisyon ng serbisyo sibil  ng Direktor ng Emergency Management, na may karagdagang minimum na 
kuwalipikasyon na matutukoy ayon sa mga batas ng serbisyo sibil?
Kasalukuyang Sitwasyon
Ang Department of Emergency Management (“DEM”) ng Lungsod (dating kilala bilang civil defense 
agency) ay kasalukuyang direktang nasa ilalim ng Office of the Managing Director, ngunit hindi itinalaga 
ang sarili nitong chapter sa ilalim ng Karta gaya ng ibang mga departamento ng Lungsod. Ang citizens 
advisory commission on civil defense ay isang hiwalay na ahensya na direktang nasa ilalim ng Office of the 
Managing Director.
Ang pagpili at pagpapanatili ng mga posisyon na DEM director at deputy director ay napapailalim sa 
civil service rules, iyon ay, sila ay napapailalim sa merit principle. Ang Department of Human Resources, 
na nangangasiwa sa programa ng serbisyong sibil ng Lungsod, ay nagpapataw ng mga minimum na 
kwalipikasyon para sa posisyon ng direktor ng DEM na naaayon sa prinsipyo ng merito. Itinakda ng Karta 
ang mga tungkulin ng DEM director ngunit hindi ang pinakamababang kwalipikasyon ng posisyon.
Kung Pumasa ang Panukala
Ang Sangay na Tagapagpaganap ay muling isasaayos upang ang DEM ay maitatalaga ng sarili nitong 
kabanata sa ilalim ng Karta, tulad ng ibang mga departamento ng Lungsod, at ang komisyon sa pagpapayo 
ng mga mamamayan ay mapapaloob sa DEM. Ang mga pagbabagong ito ay hindi makakaapekto sa 
termino ng kasalukuyang DEM director na naglilingkod sa Enero 1, 2025.
Ang mga kaukulang pag-amyenda sa Karta ay isasabatas upang matiyak na ang mga posisyon ng 
direktor ng DEM at kahaliling direktor ay patuloy na sasailalim sa mga tuntunin sa serbisyo sibil. Sa 
partikular, ibubukod ng mga pagbabagong ito ang mga posisyon ng DEM director at deputy director 
mula sa awtoridad ng salary commission, na tumutukoy sa mga suweldo para sa mga department head 
at deputy head, at mula sa mga eksempsyon mula sa serbisyong sibil na nalalapat sa lahat ng iba pang 
independiyenteng mga direktor ng departamento at mga kahaliling direktor.
Susugan ng Karta rin upang linawin ang mga tungkulin ng direktor ng DEM at magdagdag ng iba pang 
mga tungkulin, kabilang ang pagpapatupad ng pagsasanay, ehersisyo, at mga programa sa pampublikong 
impormasyon na may kaugnayan sa pamamahala sa emerhensiya. Sa pagwawakas, hayagang isasama ng 
Karta ang mga minimum na kwalipikasyon ng DHR para sa posisyon ng direktor ng DEM, at magpapataw 
ng karagdagang kinakailangan ng hindi bababa sa limang taon ng responsableng karanasang pang-
administratibo sa pamamahala sa emerhensiya, pagpaplano ng sakuna, o pamamahala sa mga serbisyong 
pangkaligtasan ng publiko, na hindi bababa sa dalawang taon ay dapat kasama ang pangangasiwa sa 
pamamahala sa emerhensiya o mga aktibidad sa seguridad sa sariling bayan, o pareho.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta 
sa honoluluelections.us .
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan
90Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng Lungsod ng Honolulu sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG AY IPINAGKALOOB NG LUNGSOD AT COUNTY NG 
HONOLULU, KAGAWARAN NG ABOGADO NG KORPORASYON
KATANUNGAN #3
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang amyendahan ang Nirebisang Karta ng Lungsod para magtatag ng Komisyon ng 
Kaligtasan sa Karagatan upang repasuhin at gumawa ng mga rekomendasyon sa mga partikular 
na gawain ng Departamento ng Kaligtasan sa Karagatan at upang magtalaga ng Hepe ng 
Kaligtasan sa Karagatan?
Kasalukuyang Sitwasyon
Alinsunod sa kanyang awtoridad sa ilalim ng Revised City Charter Seksyon 4-202, itinatag 
kamakailan ng alkalde ang departamento ng kaligtasan sa karagatan (“OSD”) bilang isang 
standalone na ahensya na independiyente sa departamento ng mga serbisyong pang-emergency 
kung saan ito napapabilang. Ang OSD ay pinamumunuan ng isang direktor ng kaligtasan sa 
karagatan na itinalaga at maaaring tanggalin ng alkalde.
Kung Pumasa ang Panukala
Ang resolusyong ito ay mag-aamyenda sa Karta upang lumikha ng limang miyembro na 
komisyon sa kaligtasan ng karagatan sa loob ng OSD na magkakaroon ng awtoridad, bukod sa 
iba pang mga bagay-bagay, na gumawa ng mga rekomendasyon sa taunang budget ng OSD; 
suriin ang mga operasyon ng OSD at magrekumenda ng mga pagpapabuti; magsagawa ng 
mga taunang pagsusuri sa pagganap ng pinuno ng kaligtasan sa karagatan; dinggin ang mga 
reklamo ng mamamayan tungkol sa OSD o mga tauhan nito, at magrekumenda ng mga aksyong 
pagwawasto sa pinuno ng OSD; at magsumite ng taunang ulat sa alkalde at konseho sa mga 
aktibidad ng OSD.
Bilang karagdagan, ang titulo ng posisyon ng "direktor" ng OSD ay papalitan ng titulong, "hepe" 
ng OSD. Ang hepe ng OSD ay itatalaga ng komisyon sa kaligtasan ng karagatan at maaaring 
tanggalin lamang pagkatapos makatanggap ng mga dahilan para sa kanyang pagpapatanggal at 
isang pagkakataon para sa isang pagdinig sa harap ng komisyon sa kaligtasan ng karagatan. Ang 
direktor ng OSD na itinalaga ng alkalde ay patuloy na hahawak sa posisyon sa Disyembre 31, 
2024, at magpapatuloy na magsisilbing direktor ng OSD hanggang sa humirang ang komisyon sa 
kaligtasan ng karagatan ng bagong hepe.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta 
sa honoluluelections.us .
2024 GABAY NG BOTANTE
 Pangkalahatang HalalanPangkalahatang Halalan91Mga Pagbabago sa Karta Mga Iminumungkahing Amyenda sa Karta ng Lungsod ng Honolulu sa 2024
ANG MGA PAHAYAG AY IPINAGKALOOB NG LUNGSOD AT COUNTY NG 
HONOLULU, KAGAWARAN NG ABOGADO NG KORPORASYON
KATANUNGAN #4
KATANUNGAN
Dapat bang ang mga probisyon ng Nirebisang Charter ng Lungsod na may kaugnayan sa mga 
suweldo para sa mga Miyembro ng Konseho ay emyendahan upang limitahan ang anumang 
taunang pagtaas sa hindi hihigit sa limang porsiyento, mag-atas na ang anumang mga pagbabago 
ay maiugnay sa average na taunang mga pagbabago sa suweldo ng mga empleyado ng lungsod 
sa mga kolektibong yunit ng pakikipagkasundo ng Lungsod, at tanggalin ang awtoridad ng 
Konseho na bumoto sa sarili nitong mga pagtaas?
Kasalukuyang Sitwasyon
Alinsunod sa Seksiyon 3-122 ng Nirebisang Karta ng Lungsod, itinatatag ng komisyon sa sahod 
(“Komisyon”) sa pamamagitan ng resolusyon ang mga sahod para sa ilang mga posisyon 
sa munisipyo, kabilang ang mga sa Konseho ng Lungsod. Ang mga sahod na ito ay dapat 
na tumutugma sa mga prinsipyo ng “sapat na kabayaran para sa trabahong isinagawa” at 
“pagpapanatili ng isang makatuwirang kaugnayan sa mga sahod ng ibang mga empleyado ng 
Lungsod.” Maaaring tanggapin o tanggihan ng Konseho ng Lungsod ang anumang bahagi ng 
resolusyon ng Komisyon, kabilang ang anumang bahagi na may kaugnayan sa sariling mga 
sahod ng mga Miyembro ng Konseho.
Kung Pumasa ang Panukala
Ang Karta ay sususugan upang iatas na maglabas ang Komisyon ng isang resolusyon na 
nagtatatag ng mga sahod para sa mga Miyembro ng Konseho at isang hiwalay na resolusyon na 
nagtatatag ng mga sahod para sa iba pang mga posisyon.
Kaugnay ng mga sahod ng mga Miyembro ng Konseho, ang anumang pagtaas sa hinaharap 
ay lilimitahan sa 5% taun-taon at kinakailangan na maging “sapat na katulad” sa average ng 
pinakahuling taunang pagbabago sa sahod ng iba’t ibang yunit ng kolektibong pakikipag-
ugnayan ng lungsod. Ang Konseho ng Lungsod ay hindi na magkakaroon ng awtoridad 
na tanggapin o tanggihan ang resolusyon ng Komisyon na may kaugnayan sa sarili nitong 
mga sahod.
Para sa buong teksto ng mga 
iminungkahing pagbabago, pumunta 
sa honoluluelections.us .
Makipag-ugnayan sa Amin
Para sa impormasyon tungkol sa pagpaparehistro upang makaboto,
makipag-ugnayan sa iyong Dibisyon ng mga Halalan ng County.
County ng Hawaii (808) 961-8277
County ng Maui (808) 270-7749
County ng Kauai (808) 241-4800
Lungsod at County ng Honolulu (808) 768-3800
Para sa karagdagang impormasyon sa pagboto, 
makipag-ugnayan sa Opisina ng mga Halalan.
Telepono: (808) 453-VOTE (8683)
Walang Bayad: 1-800-442-VOTE (8683)
TTY: (808) 453-6150
Walang Bayad na TTY: 1-800-345-5915
Email: elections@hawaii.gov
Website: elections.hawaii.gov
GABAY NG GABAY NG 
BOTANTEBOTANTE20242024  Hawaii HawaiiPangkalahatanPangkalahatan
