Source URL: https://emergencyservices.honolulu.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Honolulu Emergency Services Department Skip to Content Honolulu Emergency Services Department Ka ʻOihana Lawelawe Ulia Pōpilikia o Honolulu Search for: Home Emergency Medical Services Meet the Team Join the Team Calling 911 Resources Prepare for a 911 Medical Emergency Billing EMS Unit Locations Natural Disasters Data and Statistics History In Memoriam Awards Community Outreach Educational Resources EMS Explorers Health Services Meet the Team Join the Team Data and Statistics C.O.R.E. Meet the C.O.R.E. Team Staying Safe Contact Us News Calling 911 Home Emergency Medical Services Meet the Team Join the Team Calling 911 Resources Prepare for a 911 Medical Emergency Billing EMS Unit Locations Natural Disasters Data and Statistics History In Memoriam Awards Community Outreach Educational Resources EMS Explorers Health Services Meet the Team Join the Team Data and Statistics C.O.R.E. Meet the C.O.R.E. Team Staying Safe Contact Us News Calling 911 To Care for Others is Our Kuleana We provide 24/7 emergency medical care and services to residents and visitors of Oʻahu. Join the EMS Team Take a look into the career of a Paramedic Meet Raquel Silvernail, a Paramedic with Honolulu EMS as she explains what her team does on a daily basis. Watch Video Honolulu Emergency Services Department (HESD) HESD consists of two divisions and two branches and is responsible for providing emergency medical treatment and safety for all residents and visitors on Oʻahu. Meet the Team Emergency Medical Services Discover how Oʻahu’s Paramedics and EMTs respond to the island's nearly 100,000 annual medical emergencies across the island. Learn about EMS Health Services The City's Health Service Branch conducts pre-employment and periodic physical examinations and ongoing medical evaluations for City employees. Learn about Health Services Crisis Outreach Response and Engagement (C.O.R.E.) C.O.R.E. is an innovative new program that offers medical and social services to Oʻahu's homeless population. Learn about C.O.R.E. Build a Career with Integrity and Impact Are you looking for an exciting and challenging career that allows you make a difference in your community? Learn about the requirements, education and training needed to join our team. Join the EMS Team Are You Prepared for a 911 Medical Emergency? You never know when you or a loved one will experience a medical emergency. It's best to be prepared before an emergency occurs because during an emergency, emotions are running high and panic sets in. Learn what to have on hand prior to the arrival of the Honolulu Emergency Medical Services team. Get Prepared Learn How to Stay Safe on Oʻahu With over 227 miles of coastline and 150+ identified beaches, it's no small feat to keep our residents and visitors safe as they live, play and recreate on Oʻahu. Learn how you can help protect yourself with our safety tips and resources. Get Safety Tips & Resources Contact Us Honolulu Emergency Services Department Dr. James Ireland Director Ian T.T. Santee, MPA Deputy Director 3375 Koapaka Street, Suite H450 Honolulu, Hawaiʻi 96819 Phone: (808) 723-7800 Fax: (808) 723-7836 Emergency Medical Services Division Phone: (808) 723-7809 Fax: (808) 831-4309 Follow Us on Social Media EMS Emergency Medical Services Meet the EMS Team Become an EMT EMS Resources Prepare for a 911 Medical Emergency EMS Unit Locations EMS History Awards Community Outreach EMS Explorers C.O.R.E. About C.O.R.E. Meet the C.O.R.E. Team HESD About HESD Health Services Health Services Branch Join the Health Services Team Meet the Health Services Team Copyright © 2024 Honolulu Emergency Services Department, All Rights Reserved Honolulu.gov Accessibility Privacy Statement Terms of Use search close chevron-down facebook-square facebook bars youtube-play instagram chevron-down

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
