Source URL: https://esign.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
eSign Service Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer State of Hawaii eSign Service Home eSign Portal How To Videos Previous Web Trainings Current Status Contact Us Signing documents should always be this easy. This is, the eSign Service. Starting with understanding your priorities, we’ve made them our priorities. Complete Security Reduce Environmental Impact Expedite Business Process Statistics Take a look at our achievements, so far. Statewide, all departments utilize eSign in a number of ways. From onboarding new employees to signing everyday documents, all electronically. Median Time of Completed Transactions (minutes) Avg. Monthly Number of Transactions Record # of Transactions in a Month Total eSign Transactions As of: Mar 1, 2023 Reach your signers, anywhere. eSign provides the flexibility to eSign from any device, anywhere, anytime. Whether they are right next to you, on a neighbor island, or in a different office. Letting you continue your business where you need it. All in an hour. Learn to eSign within an hour. We offer free onsite training for your entire division, branch, office, and department. We offer many different training courses; learn as much as you need. From beginner to expert our goal is to help you expedite your business process. Malama Ka Aina – Respecting the land Malama Ka `Aina – Respecting the land Through digitizing paper-based processes the State of Hawaii reduces its environmental impact, take a look. Gallons of water saved Pounds of waste saved Pounds of wood saved Provided by Adobe Resource Calculator Oct ’15 – Oct ’23 Questions eSign Site Accessibility Site map Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved. Icons made by Eucalyp, Freepik, Alfredo Hernandez from www.flaticon.com is licensed by CC 3.0 BY Background vector designed by D3images - Freepik.com Designed by Freepik

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
