Source URL: https://filmoffice.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawaii Film Office Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii Hawaii Film Office Search this site Search Home Locations Locations & Jurisdictions Open & Accessible Sites State of Hawaii Tax Map State of Hawaii Film Office County Film Offices/FOHI Hawaii Film Studio ID8 STUDIOS Filming in Sensitive Locations Weather and Surf Film Permits State Film Permits Standard Film Permits Open and Accessible ePermits Drone Activity Water Activity Certificate of Insurance (COI) Filming Regulations Elopement & Wedding Photography County Film Offices/FOHI Incentives & Tax Credits Productions in Hawaii HIFA Crew & Talent Film Permits Tax Incentives COVID-19 Information add_alert UPDATES: Standard Film Permit Application : Some changes have been made to our application forms. Please be sure to download current versions HERE. Location Scouts: Groups larger than 10+ crew or special requests of any kind will require a Scouting Permit. You may submit your scouting request using our Standard Film Permit Application. EXCEPTION: Scouting of any size on DLNR State Parks jurisdiction requires a scout permit. DLNR State Park fees will be included in the scout permit. Permit Lead Time: Most* Standard Film Permit Applications require 7 business days to process. Some locations take longer, please review in detail here . Hawaii Island: Pololu NOT permitted at this time -starting 4/19/23. Kauai Island: The road leading up to Pu‘u O Kila Lookout is closed to vehicular traffic, but still accessible by foot. Parking is at Kalalau lookout, and it is about a mile walk in. Maui Island: Puaʻa Kaʻa Wayside is NOT available for filming with either film permit at this time. Oahu Island: Haleiwa Bridge will be under construction until 7/16/25 TBD, and may not be suitable for filming. State Parks: For current updates on State Parks locations – CLICK HERE Wedding /Elopement Photography- information page now available! CLICK HERE Aloha! Welcome to the official site of the State of Hawaii Film Office In the past Hawaii has been known as “Hollywood’s Tropical Backlot” — due in part to high-profile films ranging from South Pacific to Jurassic Park to Fifty First Dates , to Pirates of the Caribbean and television productions like Doogie Kamealoha, M.D., NCIS: Hawai’i, Hawaii Five-0, Magnum P.I., Lost, and The River . But what more and more filmmakers are finding out is that Hawaii has a lot more to offer than just spectacularly lush tropical settings, fabulous weather, and golden light. We’ve got competitive tax incentives, the only state-owned and operated film studio in the country and a growing list of production facilities, an experienced pool of crew and talent, a comprehensive local inventory of state-of-the-art equipment, a well-established one-stop process for state film permits, and a film-friendly government and community. So, whatever your budget or location requirements, we’re ready to roll! Check out our quick guide to Filming in Hawaii , or click on the links above to learn more about shooting here. Aloha mai kākou, Welcome to the Hawai‘i Film Office. I’m proud to say we have been supporting Hawai‘i’s century old film industry for more than four decades. You will find everything you need here to get started: the latest COVID-19 information for safely traveling to and filming in the Islands; securing state film permits and all the details necessary to apply for our refundable production tax credit program that provides 22 percent back on all production expenditures on the island of O‘ahu and 27 percent back on all production expenditures incurred on the Neighbor Islands of Kaua‘i, Maui, Molokai, Lāna‘i, and Hawai‘i Island. In addition, we have links to our Island County film commissions and our labor unions, all of whom are standing by ready to assist. Due to the ongoing pandemic, we continue to work remotely. If you have any questions along the way, please reach out to us at the following email addresses: [email protected] – for any film permit questions [email protected] – for any tax credit questions On behalf of the State of Hawai‘i, I would like to be the first to welcome you to our Island home. We look forward to helping to make your next project a success in every way we can. Aloha, Donne Dawson Hawai‘i State Film Commissioner Board Member and First Vice Chair, AFCI (Association of Film Commissioners International) Photo courtesy of Ashley Smith (808) 586-2570 Contact Email About Us About Us Contact Us Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
