Source URL: https://hale.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Office of the Governor's Housing Team Skip to Main Content Hawaii.gov An official website of the State of Hawaiʻi Search for: Search for: State of Hawaii Office of the Governor's Housing Team Homepage Housing Crisis Emergency Proclamation Hawaiʻi Housing Pipeline News Resources Document Library FAQs Archived – Build Beyond Barriers Meeting Resources Members Subscribe Get Involved Office of the Governor's Housing Team Home Page Housing Team Tackling Hawaiʻi’s housing crisis is a top priority for Governor Josh Green’s administration. It’s a crisis that represents one of the largest economic challenges facing families in Hawaiʻi. This website details the efforts by the Green administration to protect and provide thousands of units of affordable housing throughout Hawaiʻi for local residents. Learn More The Governor’s Housing Priorities Expanding the affordable housing inventory Maintaining existing affordable units Offering more housing support for residents of Hawaiʻi Coordinating and modernizing Hawaiʻi’s housing development process Communicating the urgency of our current housing crisis News Archive Emergency Proclamation Ninth Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing, signed October 10, 2024 October 10, 2024 Proclamation Highlights: Places a pause on the automatic adoption of county building codes, giving the counties additional time to review, amend and adopt the latest state and national building codes to suit their particular safety and design standards and needs…. Read More Ninth Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing, signed October 10, 2024 Grant Opportunities Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing Round II Funding Opportunity September 18, 2024 The Office of Planning and Sustainable Development (OPSD) invites public comments from September 19, 2024, through October 4, 2024, on Hawaiʻi’s application for the Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing (PRO Housing) Round II grant from the U.S. Department of… Read More Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing Round II Funding Opportunity Emergency Proclamation Eighth Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing, Signed August 15, 2024 August 15, 2024 Proclamation Highlights The Eighth Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing further refines and streamlines the process required to build affordable housing. Eighth Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing, signed August 15, 2024 Read More Eighth Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing, Signed August 15, 2024 Housing Legislation Hawaiʻi 2024 Legislative Housing Digest August 7, 2024 The Office of Governor Josh Green has released the “2024 Legislative Session Housing Digest,” a comprehensive guide to all the bills and resolutions that aim to expand Hawaiʻi’s inventory of affordable housing and ease the statewide housing crisis. Lawmakers approved… Read More Hawaiʻi 2024 Legislative Housing Digest Grant Opportunities Federal Fund Award – Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing July 3, 2024 Hawaiʻi has been awarded over $6.6 million in federal funding through the Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing program, thanks to Senator Brian Schatz’s ‘Yes in My Backyard’ legislation. This grant will help establish a State Infrastructure Bank to finance… Read More Federal Fund Award – Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing Emergency Proclamation Seventh Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing, Signed June 18, 2024 June 18, 2024 Proclamation Highlights: The Seventh Emergency Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing further refines and streamlines the process required to build affordable housing. Seventh Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing, signed June 18, 2024 Read More Seventh Proclamation Relating to Affordable Housing, Signed June 18, 2024 View more articles Footer Content ABOUT Welcome to the website for the Housing Team within the Office of the Governor. Please look through the website pages to learn more about our work in providing and protecting affordable housing across Hawaii. CONTACT Office of the Governor's Housing Team [email protected] HAWAII.GOV Government Directory Online Services Social Media State Calendar Alerts An official website of the State of Hawaiʻi Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 , State of Hawaiʻi. All rights reserved

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
