Source URL: https://hawaii2050.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaiʻi Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan Search this site Search Home Interactive Version Resources Contact Us Home Aloha! Click the Hawaii 2050 Sustainability Plan’s cover to read the plan! It is our pleasure to share this important document, the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan: Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030) with you! The State of Hawaiʻi’s Office of Planning and Sustainable Development’s Statewide Sustainability Program recently updated the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve as the State’s sustainability and climate strategic action plan; align the State’s goals, policies, and actions with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals ; and recommend sustainability and climate change actions for 2020–2030. To ensure that the plan reflects a sustainable and achievable vision, the State of Hawaiʻi Office of Planning and Sustainable Development renewed the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan for the decade ahead. The revised plan will guide the coordination and implementation of Hawaiʻi’s sustainability and climate adaptation goals, principles, and policies, pursuant to Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes §226-65 . It will also provide recommendations for a sustainable and resilient economic recovery for Hawaiʻi. Hawaiʻi’s climate is changing, and we must act together to incorporate climate resilience and sustainable development in our every day lives. Mahalo to the many hands who lent their hands in many different ways to perform this important update to the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan , including the hundreds of individuals and community members across all our Hawaiian Islands, organizations, businesses, State and County agencies that contributed to the development of this plan. To view the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan: Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030) please click here ! As a living document, we will continue to develop this website to highlight the progress and implementation of the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan , please stay tuned for more updates! Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://hawaii2050.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/FINAL-Hawaii-2050-Sustainability-Plan-web-1.pdf) ---
Hawai‘i 2050
SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)
ABOUT THE VISUAL DESIGN,  by Stephanie Chang Design Ink: 
Ancestral wisdom continues to be a source of inspiration throughout. 
Our ancient water system, built and cultivated throughout ahupua‘a, was in graceful alignment with natural weather systems and human need; its design represents whole system health, everything in relationship to each other, kuleana. The Plan’s key image (seen here on this page) served as the root for resulting graphic elements which support and amplify the plan’s incredible content and ultimately, inspiration for your solutions. The Plan’s color system was inspired by artist Bernice Akamine’s brilliant color wheel, created using native plants to create Na- Waiho‘olu‘u Hawai‘i, colors that our kanaka
ku-puna grew, gathered, created, used, viewed, and enjoyed. Mahalo to
Kamaka‘aina Siepp of The Color Garden for sharing this ‘ike with me. Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)  
June 2021
A publication of the Hawai‘i State Office of  Planning, purs uant 
to Act 146, Session Laws of Ha wai‘i 2019.
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Āina i ka Pono  
The Life of the Land is Perpetuated in Righteousness  
This document was printed on recycled paper containing 
30% post-consumer recycled fiber.9 
10 
12 
18 
20 
22
26
30
34
38
42
46
50
54
58
62
66
70
74
80
84
88
92 
96
98
100
102
103
104
105
106
108
109TABLE OF CONTENTS 
E kuahui like i ka hana
Executive Summ ary
Hawai‘i's Sustainability and Climate Journey
The Update Pro cess for the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Pla n
Recommitting t o a Sustainable F uture
Hawai‘i's Comm itment to the Sustainable De velopment Goa ls (SDGs)  
Sustainable Development Goal 1 : No Poverty 
Sustainable Development Goal 2 : Zero Hunger 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 3: Good Health  and Well-Being  
Sustainable Development Goal 4: Quality Education 
Sustainable Development Goal 5: Gender Equa lity 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 6: Clean Wate r and Sanitation 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 7: Affordable a nd Clean Energy 
Sustainable Development Goal 8: Decent Work and  Economic Growt h 
Sustainable Development Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and  Infrastructure 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 0: Reduce Ine qualities 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 1: Sustainab le Cities and Communities 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 2: Responsib le Consumption and Production 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 3: Climate Action 
Sustainable Development Goal 14: Life Below Water 
Sustainable Development Goal 15: Life on La nd 
Sustainable Development Goal 16: Peace, Justic e and Strong Institutions 
Sustainable Development Goal 17: Partnerships
2021–2030 Recom mended Actions
Promote a Sustainable Economi c Recovery 
Reduce Greenho use Gas Emissions 
Improve Climate Resilience 
Advance Sustainable Communiti es 
Advance Equity  
Institutionalize Sustainabili ty Throughou t Government 
Preserve the Natural Environme nt 
Perpetuate Traditional Ecolo gical Knowledge and Values 
‘A‘ohe hana nui ke alu ‘ia
Refe rences 110
Hawai'i 2050 Sus
tainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    1
MESSAGE FROM THE GOVERNOR 
Recognizing the Publication, Revision, and Decennial Update of the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability  
Plan, Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030)
Sustainability is not simply a goal; it is a commitment and a responsibility for all of us throughout the State of 
Ha
wai‘i. We are all connected to Hawai‘i's sustainable fu ture in everything that we do — connected as a family, connected 
with our communities, and connect
ed to our ‘āina.  Knowing this, we must protect Hawai‘i for our children and for their 
future. We, as a state, must continue to actively work on the sustainable development and climate adaptation of our islands 
without compromising the abilit
y of future generations of Hawai‘i to thrive. 
This decennial update of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan serves as our State's climate and sustainability strategic 
action plan moving forward. This update will guide the crucial 2020-2030 Decade of Action which the United Nations 
declared to accelerate sustainable solutions for our biggest challenges. Hawai‘i's economic recovery from the COVID-19 
global pandemic, as r
ecommended by this updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, must be central to our shared 
responsibility and climate resilience efforts over this Decade of Action. Finally, this plan furthers my Sustainable Hawai‘i 
Initia
tives – which aim to protect Hawai‘i's watersheds and nearshore waters; prevent, detect and control invasive species; 
double local food production; and reach 100 percent renewable energy use in the electricity sector by the year 2045.
I applaud the staff of the State of Hawai‘i's Statewide Sustainability Program within the State's Office of Planning and all 
State departments and staff who participated in this plan and recognize our collective commitment to coordinate, develop, 
and promote policies and programs that assist in meeting Hawai‘i's statewide sustainability and climate policies and goals. 
M
ahalo for working diligently to develop this living document. 
I remain commit
ted to statewide sustainability and climate adaptation and will continue to work with the 
Legislature, counties, private sector and the community to achieve our sustainability and climate resiliency 
go
als. 
Together, we can do great things.
With warmest regards,
David Y. Ige  
Governor
State of Hawai‘i
 2�J� ALOHA! 
It is our pleasure to share this important document, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: 
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030) wit h you. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning has the unique charge to work collaboratively with state and 
county agencies and facilitate a collective effort to achie ve shared statewide sustainability and climate 
resilience goals for Hawai‘i.  
We are honored to deliver the update of the Hawai‘i 20 50 Sustainability Plan, to serve as our State's climate 
and sustainability strategic action plan moving forward , pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65.  
We are committed to coordinating Hawai‘i's statewide sustainability and climate resilience 
goals with the recent establishment of the first Statewide Sustainability Program in 2020, 
pursuant to
 Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8.   
The United Nations declared this important decade as th e “Decade of Action,” to accelerate 
sustainable solutions for our biggest challenges worldwide – ranging from poverty and gender 
inequities to climate change, inequality and closing th e finance gap.  In Hawai‘i, we are witnessing the 
effects of climate change right in front of us: we feel the rising temperatures; we experience increased 
severe storms and hazardous flooding throughout our islan ds; we see our coastlines eroding and our 
shoreline inundated; and we encounter the effects of dro ught and increased wildfires in our communities.  
Ha wa i‘i's climate is changing, and we must act together to incorporate climate resilience and 
sustainable development in our everyday lives. 
This Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan was developed by conducting an extensive statewide public 
engagement, consistent with a community-driven approach , in addition to collaborating with state and 
county stakeholder agencies to create this plan.  As a living document, the  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
has evolved throughout the decades. It is a shared visi on that this plan will bring a renewed focus on the 
implementation of Hawai‘i's sustainable development and climate resilience. 
We want to express our sincere thanks to the members of th e public who participated and contributed their 
time to share personal feedback.  We thank the many p rivate and non-governmental partners who 
participated in this update and shared their professional  challenges, success stories, and vision for an 
equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i.  We share our deep mahalo to the many state and county 
agencies and government officials who work daily advancing Ha wai‘i's environmental, social, and economic 
sustainability and climate resilience, and have contributed their intentions such that the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan might facilitate their role to addre ss gaps, and implement actionable solutions to these 
challenges.
Th e State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning and the Statewid e Sustainability Program will continue 
to work actively on the sustainable development and climate  adaptation of the state to meet the 
needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations of Hawai‘i to meet 
their own needs. 
Mary Alice Evans  
Director
Office of PlanningDanielle M. M. Bass
State Sustainability CoordinatorStatewide Sustainability Program
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    3
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
E ala! E alu!  E kuilima! 
The Office of Planning would like to ack nowl edge the m any individuals, organizations, and state  and c ounty agencies 
that  contributed to the development of th is plan.   
Mahalo to the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan proj ect te am who supported the development of this 
plan, led by Danielle Bass with support from Britt aney Key of the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning 's Statewide 
Sust aina bility Program, the ICF team lead by Susan A sam  and Leslie Chinery with support from Brad Hurley, 
Jam ie Liu, Mollie Carroll, Samantha Heits ch, Grace Tam ble,  and Eliza Puritz. Mahalo to Neil Hannahs for 
providing support throughout this project. Mahal o to Jonat han  Scheuer for serving as lead facilitator thr ough t he 
public engagement sessions and providing te chnical s upport throughout this project. Mahalo to Ste phanie  Chan g 
for the graphic design and layout of this pl an.  
Ma halo to the state and county agencies who pr ovide d rev iew, inputs, and other participation in 
development of the plan, including: 
State of Hawai‘i Office of the Governor
Office of the Lieutenant GovernorMembers of the Hawai‘i State LegislatureDepartment of Accounting and General ServicesState Procurement OfficeDepartment of AgricultureAgribusiness Development CorporationDepartment of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT)DBEDT – Business Development and Support DivisionDBEDT – Creative Industries Division DBEDT – Hawai‘i Broadband InitiativeDBEDT – Research and Economic Analysis DivisionHawai‘i Community Development AuthorityHawai‘i Housing Finance and Development CorporationHawai‘i State Energy OfficeHawai‘i Technology Development CorporationHawai‘i Tourism AuthorityLand Use CommissionNatural Energy Laboratory of Hawai‘i AuthorityState of Hawai‘i Office of Planning – Coastal Zone Management ProgramState of Hawai‘i Office of Planning – Land Use DivisionPublic Utilities CommissionHawai‘i Emergency Management AgencyState Disaster Recovery CoordinatorState of Hawai‘i Office of Homeland SecurityDepartment of EducationDepartment of Hawaiian Home LandsDepartment of Health (DOH)DOH – Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion DivisionDOH – Clean Air Branch DOH – Clean Water BranchDOH – Hazard Evaluation and Emergency Response OfficeDOH – Primary Prevention BranchDOH – Safe Drinking Water BranchDOH – Solid and Hazardous Waste BranchDOH – Wastewater BranchDepartment of Human ServicesHawai‘i Public Housing AuthorityState Homelessness CoordinatorState Commission on the Status of WomenDepartment of Labor and Industrial Relations Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR)Commission on Water Resource ManagementDLNR – Division of Aquatic Resources DLNR – Engineering DivisionDLNR – Division of Forestry and WildlifeDLNR – Land DivisionDLNR – Division of State ParksHawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation CommissionHawai‘i Invasive Species CouncilKaho‘olawe Island Reserve CommissionDLNR – Office of Conservation and Coastal LandsDepartment of TransportationO‘ahu Metropolitan Planning Organization University of Hawai‘iUH – School of Ocean and Earth Science and TechnologyCity and County of Honolulu Office of the MayorMembers of the Honolulu City CouncilCity and County of Honolulu – Board of Water SupplyCity and County of Honolulu – Department of Environmental ServicesCity and County of Honolulu – Department of Planning and  
   PermittingCity and County of Honolulu – Office of Climate Change,  
   Sustainability, and Resilience City and County of Honolulu – Office of Economic RevitalizationCounty of Hawai‘i Office of the MayorMembers of the Hawai‘i County CouncilCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of PlanningCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of Research and DevelopmentCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of Environmental ManagementCounty of Kaua‘i Office of the MayorMembers of the Kaua‘i County CouncilCounty of Kaua‘i – Department of Planning County of Kaua‘i – Department of Public WorksCounty of Kaua‘i – Kaua‘i Emergency Management AgencyCounty of Kaua‘i – Office of Economic DevelopmentCounty of Maui Office of the Mayor Members of the Maui County CouncilCounty of Maui – Department of Environmental Management County of Maui – Department of Planning County of Maui – Department of Water Supply County of Maui – Office of Climate Action, Sustainability, and  
    Resilience 
 4Mahalo to all the individuals and organizations that helped develop the “Sustaining Hawai‘i” series, 
showcasing sustainability and resilience in action across the state, including: 
Mahalo to many people who lent their hand s in many different ways, including participants i n the 
virtual public information sharing sessions including the publi c and community  members from  the islands of 
Hawai‘i, Maui, Molokai,  Lāna‘i, Kaho‘o lawe, O‘ahu, and Kaua‘i, State a nd County ag encies as previously acknowle dged, and 
participants from the followi ng organizat ions, includin g: 
350 Hawai‘i
AECOMAES Hawai‘iAHLAloha HarvestAloha United WayArizona State UniversityBank of Hawai‘iBlue Zones Project Hawai‘iBuilding Industry Association of Hawai‘i Building Owners and Managers Association  
    of Hawai‘iChamber of Commerce Hawai‘iChaminade University of Honolulu Conservation Council for Hawai‘iConservation International Hawai‘iEarth Justice Mid-Pacific Regional OfficeEast West CenterElemental ExceleratorEnvironmental Caucus of Hawai‘iFaith Action Environmental Justice Task 
Force
First Hawaiian BankHawai‘i Alliance for Community Based  
   Economic DevelopmentHawai‘i Alliance of Nonprofit OrganizationsHawai‘i Bicycling LeagueHawai‘i Cattlemen's CouncilHawai‘i Children's Action NetworkHawai‘i Community FoundationHawai‘i Conservation AllianceHawai‘i Electric Vehicle AssociationHawai‘i EnergyHawai‘i Farm BureauHawai‘i Farmers Union UnitedHawai‘i Food Industry AssociationHawai‘i Foreign Trade Zone 9Hawai‘i GasHawai‘i Green GrowthHawai‘i Institute for Human RightsHawai‘i Medical Services AssociationHawai‘i Pacific HealthHawai‘i Pacific UniversityHawai‘i Philanthropy ForumHawai‘i Primary Care AssociationHawai‘i Public Health InstituteHawai‘i Sea GrantHawai‘i Youth Climate CoalitionHawai‘i Appleseed Center for Law and 
Economic Justice
Hawaiian AirlinesHawaiian Electric CompanyHawaiian Telcom, Inc.Healthcare Association of Hawai‘iHHFHistoric Hawai‘i FoundationILWU Hawai‘iIntegral GroupInterstate RestorationIsland SignalKamehameha SchoolsKanu Hawai‘iKaua‘i Island Utility CooperativeKawanui FarmKohala InstituteKokua Hawai‘i FoundationKualoa RanchKupu Hawai‘iLGBT Caucus of Hawai‘iMari's GardensMarriott InternationalMaui Economic Opportunity, Inc.New York UniversityOffice of Hawaiian AffairsOla Hawai‘iOne World One WaterPacific BiodieselPacific Gateway CenterParents and Children TogetherPBR Hawai‘iPūlama Lāna‘iRetail Merchants of Hawai‘iRoth Ecological Design InternationalSierra Club of Hawai‘iSSFM Hawai‘iSurfrider Foundation-Hawai‘i RegionSustainable Coastlines of Hawai‘iSust‘ainable Moloka‘iTetratech Hawai‘iThe Healy FoundationThe Nature Conservancy of Hawai‘iThe Queen's Health SystemsTrust for Public Land Hawai‘iU.N. Department of Economic and Social Affairs   –  
   Division of Sustainable DevelopmentU.S. Green Building Council – Hawai‘i ChapterU.S. Department of Agriculture – Hawai‘i OfficeU.S. Environmental Protection Agency – Region 9U.S. Federal Aviation Administration – Western Pacific  
   RegionU.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency – Region 9U.S. Federal Highways Administration – Hawai‘i DivisionU.S. Fish and Wildlife Service – Pacific RegionU.S. Geological Survey – Pacific RegionU.S. Housing and Urban Development- Honolulu Field  
   OfficeU.S. Indo – Pacific CommandU.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association –  
   Pacific Islands RegionUlupono InitiativeUniversity of Hawai‘i – HiloUniversity of Hawai‘i – MānoaUniversity of Hawai‘i – West O‘ahu University of Hawai‘i Economic Research OrganizationUrban FabrickVulcanWastewater Alternatives and InnovationsWATGWilliam S. Richardson School of LawZero Waste OahuState of Hawai‘i Office of the Governor
Members of the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
State of Hawai‘i DLNR, Division of Aquatic 
Resources 
State of Hawai‘i DLNR, Division of State Parks State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation
Hawai‘i State Energy OfficeHawai‘i Tourism Authority
City and County of Honolulu Board of Water  
   SupplyCity and County of Honolulu Office of Climate 
Change, Sustainability, and ResiliencyMembers of the Hawai‘i County Council 
County of Kaua‘i Planning Department 
 Kaua‘i Emergency Management Agency
Members of the Maui County CouncilCounty of Maui – Office of Climate Action,  
Sustainability, and Resilience
‘Āina Momona
AmeriCorps Volunteers in Service to AmericaAndrew Richard HaraFriends of Hanauma BayHawai‘i Association of Watershed PartnershipsHawai‘i Cattlemen's CouncilHawai‘i Community FoundationHawai‘i Farm BureauKō Hana DistillersLāna‘i Community Health CenterMa Ka Hana Ka ‘IkeMoloka‘i Homestead Farmers AlliancePacific BiodieselPu‘uhonua o PunaU.S. Green Building Council – Hawai‘i ChapterWai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health CenterWindward Zero Waste School Hui
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    5
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADC Agribusiness Development 
Corporation
AFOLU Agriculture, Forestry, and Land Use
ALICE Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed
BOE Board of Education
BWS Board of Water Supply
CARES ActCoronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act
COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease 2019
CO2Carbon Dioxide
CWRM Commission on Water Resource Management
CZM Coastal Zone Management Program
DAR Division of Aquatic Resources
DBEDT Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism
DHHL Department of Hawaiian Home Lands
DLNR Department of Land and Natural Resources
DOE Department of Education
DOH Department of Health
EBT/SNAPElectronic Benefit Transfer/Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
EEPS Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard
EPA Environmental Protection Agency
ESSA Every Student Succeeds Act
FDA Food and Drug Administration
GDE Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GHG Greenhouse Gas
GWh Gigawatt Hour
HB House Bill
HDOA Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture
HCR House Concurrent ResolutionHRS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes
HSEO Hawai‘i State Energy Office
HTA Hawai‘i Tourism Authority
IECC International Energy Conservation Code
IPCC U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
IPPU Industrial Processes and Product Use
IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature
LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
LGBTQ+ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer
MWh Megawatt Hour
NCRS Natural Resources Conservation Service
RPS Renewable Portfolio Standard
OP Office of Planning
SB Senate Bill 
SCR Senate Concurrent Resolution
SDG Sustainable Development Goal
SLH Session Laws of Hawai‘i
TOD Transit-Oriented Development
TRHT Truth, Racial Healing, and Transformation
UN United Nations
UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
USFWS U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
ZEV Zero-Emission Vehicle
 6GLOSSARY OF HA W AIIAN WORDS & PHRASES 
This list provides the following words, phrases, and 
their corresponding definitions used in this 
document.  The translations are shortened from 
Ulukau, the Hawaiian Electric Library. 1
 Ahupua‘a means a land division usually extending 
from the uplands to the sea, so called because the 
boundary was marked by a heap (ahu) of stones 
surmo unted by an image of a pig (pua‘a), or because a 
pig or other tribute was laid on the altar as tax to the 
Chief.  The boundaries of an ahupua‘a are based on 
the
 region's watersheds.
‘A- ina means land, earth.
‘A- ina momona means rich, abundant, productive,
fertile lands which sustain life.
‘Aina Pono means righteous meal, or good meal.
Aloha means affection, love, compassion for others. 
The phrase also serves as Greetings, Hello, Good Bye, 
Farewell.
H
a- lau hula means a school or hall in which the
Hawaiian dance form called hula is practiced, hula 
school.
H
a- wai (Neritina granosa) means a freshwater snail
endemic to Hawai‘i.
Holomua means progress, or to move forward.
‘Ike means knowledge, or wisdom.
Kama‘-aina means a native-born, one born in a place, 
host. 
Ka- naka Maoli means Native Hawaiians.
Ka- kou means we (inclusive, three or more), ours.
Kapu
 means f orbidden, sacred.
Keiki means child or children.
Kuleana means right, privilege, concern, 
responsibility.
Ko‘a means coral. 
Kumulipo means origin, or source of life; and is the 
name of the Hawaiian creation chant.
Kupu means to sprout, or to grow.
1 Available online at: http://wehewehe.org.  Lo‘i means irrigated terrace, especially for taro. 
Lo‘i Kalo means taro terrace.
Loko I‘a means Hawaiian fishponds.Ma kai means toward the ocean.Maka‘a-inana means people that attend the land.
Ma-keke  means market.
Ma-la means garden, plantation, patch, or cultivated
field.Ma-lama ‘a-ina means to care for the land.
Ma-lama Hawai‘i means to care for Hawai‘i.
Ma-lama Honua means to care for the Earth.
Mana‘o means a thought or belief.Ma uka means inland or toward the upland. Momona means fertile, or rich, as soil. 
 
‘Ōlelo means language or speech.
‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i means Hawaiian language.
‘O‘opu means a type of freshwater fish or goby, 
which generally describes any of the four endemic or one indigenous species in Hawai‘i. [‘O‘opu hi‘u kole (Lentipes concolor), ‘O‘opu nōpili (Sicyopterus stimpsoni), ‘O‘opu nākea (Awaous guamensis), ‘O‘opu naniha (Stenogoblus hawaiiensis), and ‘O‘opu ‘akupa (Eleotris sandwicensis)] 
‘Ōpae means a type of freshwater shrimp, which 
generally describes either of the two endemic shrimp species in Hawai‘i. [‘Ōpae kala‘ole (Atyoida bisulcata), and ‘Ōpae ‘oeha‘a (Macrobrachium grandimanus)]
Pono means goodness, uprightness, morality, moral 
qualities, correct or proper procedure, excellence, equity, fair, righteous, welfare, and wellbeing.
Pu‘uhonua means place of refuge. Pae‘a-ina Hawai‘i means the Hawaiian Islands. 
Wahi Kapu means sacred place.Wahi Pana means legendary place. Wahine means woman. Wa-hine means women, the plural of woman.
Hawai'i 2050
 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    7
GLOSSARY OF HA W AIIAN PROVERBS
‘O–lelo No‘eau 
‘A ‘ohe hana nui ke alu ‘ia   
No task is too big when done together by all.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #142)  
E ala! E alu! E kuilima! 
Up! Tog
ether! Join Hands!  
A call to come together to tackle a given task.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #258)  
E kuahui like i ka hana  
Let eve
rybody pitch in and work together.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #323)  
Hahai no ka ua i ka ululā‘au  
Rains alway
s follow the forest.  
The rains are attracted to forest trees. Knowing this Hawaiians hewed only the trees that were needed.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #405)  
Ma ka hana ka ‘ike  
 In working one learns.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #2088)  
Ua mau ke ea o ka ‘āina i ka pono  
The life of the land is preserved in righteousness.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #2829)   The following list provides the Hawaiian proverbs and their corresponding definitions used in this document. 
Integrating Hawaiian proverbs and poetry raises awareness of ‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i and ‘Ōlelo No‘eau, as well as cultivates appreciation for the Hawaiian cultural ethos of environmental guardianship. The ‘Ōlelo No‘eau referenced herein are from the collection in ‘Ōlelo No‘eau: Hawaiian Proverbs & Poetical Sayings – collected, translated, and annotated by Mary Kawena Pukui.
In addition to the ‘Ōlelo No‘eau referenced above, the following Hawaiian proverbs and their corresponding 
definitions were also used in during the virtual public information sharing sessions and public outreach for this Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan.
‘A ‘ohe pu‘u ki‘eki‘e ke ho‘ā‘o ‘ia e pi‘i 
No cliff i
s so tall that it cannot be scaled.  
No problem is too great when one tries hard to solve it.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #209)  
Hili hewa ka mana‘o ke ‘ole ke kūkākūkā  
Ideas run wild without  discussion.  
Discussion brings ideas together into a plan.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #993)  
 8E KUAHUI LIKE I KA HAN A
Let Everyone Pitch In And W ork T ogether
The  State of Hawai‘i has a strong history and posit ive  mome ntum across a range of public and 
private efforts to set the state on a course  toward climate resilience, and economic, social,  an d 
environmental sustainability.  Existing State  poli cies, State and County agency programs, and 
voluntary initiatives such as the Aloha+ Challenge and the Sustai nable Hawai‘i Initiative are driving 
pro gress, while the United Nations' Sustainable Deve lopme nt Goals (SDGs) have created a destination in  
the form of a globally unified set of 17 targets. 
Concurrently, the state's isolation and finite resource s have limited the affordable access to h ousing, 
utilities, transportation, and food for many of  Hawai‘i's resi dents.   The recent COVID-19 global 
pandemic exacerbated many of these economic and soc ial chal lenge s. Environmental impacts from 
poll ution and invasive species continue to threaten our islands‘ native biodiversity, while  Hawai‘i's 
changing climate unfolds.  Climate change in  Haw ai‘i will exacerbate these existing problems and inflict  
more  state wide challenges including sea level rise, drought,  wildf ires, hurricanes, precipitation loss, 
rising temperatures, and increased risks to public he alth. 
These  disruptions and challenges offer an opport unity t o rethin k how and where we invest — 
to identify needed adjustments to promote local food  prod uction, climate resilience, green 
infrast ructure, resource management, affordable housin g, a nd more. 
As we do so, we can draw inspiration and guidance from well- adapted traditional Hawaiian ahupua‘a 
values and practices that foster a systems appro ach to stewardship, sustainable well-being, and 
intergenerational equity (the duty of present generations to support future generations).
To create a vibrant, resilient economy, a healthy q uality of life grounded in a multi-ethnic 
culture and Kānaka Maoli values, and healthy natura l resources— we need a shared 
understanding of our goals and the action s required  to achieve them.  Within this context, the 
State of  Hawai‘i is updating and revising t he scope of  its  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve  as the  
State's climate and sustainability strategic acti on plan, pursuant to  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes § 226-65 . 
This plan includes specific priority strategies and actions to advance economic, social, environmental 
sustai nability, and climate resilience in Hawai ‘i over this decade.  This  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
desc ribes the existing statewide efforts in relation to the UN SDGs and presents the State's current  
commitments to guide the coordination and implementat ion  of t he State's sustainability and climate 
adaptation goals, principles, and policies.
This plan captures and will help refocus the  mome ntum sta tewide created through past and 
ongoing initiatives, helping to guide us forwa rd to a more prosperous, equitable, resilient, and 
sust aina ble future.  This is an inclusive journey toward a share d vision of the  Hawai‘i that we 
wa nt to live in and pass on to future generat ions.  Achie vin g this vision will require a kākou 
effort, with all of  Hawai‘i's government agencies, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and 
citizens to pitch in and work together.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    9
The Unit ed Nations designated 2020–2030 as the “Decade of Action,” a time to accelerate progress toward 
achi eving t he Sust ainable Development Goals (SDGs), a globally unified set of 17 targets.  The people of 
Hawai‘i are committed to and have built positive momentum toward achieving these goals across 
a range of public and private efforts to achieve the SDGs by 2030.  In coordination with existing State 
poli cies, St ate and County agency programs, and voluntary initiatives such as the Aloha+ Challenge and the 
Sustainable Hawai‘i  Init iative, this Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan recommends additional actions to achieve 
near-t erm solutions for Hawai‘i's climate resilience and economic, social, and environmental sustainability.
To cult ivat e a vibrant, resilient economy, a healthy quality of life grounded in a multi-ethnic culture and 
Kānaka Maoli values, and healthy natural resources—we need a shared understanding of our goals and the 
actions required to achieve them.  While the COVID-19 global pandemic underscored Hawai‘i's economic and 
communit y vulnerabilities and inequities with regard to ensuring basic necessities including food security, 
housing affordabili ty, and household financial security—it also provided a unique opportunity to rethink 
and recalibrate Hawai‘i's “new normal” through an equitable, resilient, and sustainable recovery.
To inform t he evolution of Hawai‘i's “new normal,” and consistent with a community-driven approach, this 
updat ed plan employed an extensive engagement and outreach process that included two public surveys, 
multi ple stakeholder interviews, and nine virtual public information-sharing sessions.  This public 
engagemen t process identified climate action as the top sustainability priority to achieve within 
this decade, followed b y sustainable cities and communities and clean and affordable energy, and 
the need to increase Hawai‘i's local food production and food security. 
Input from this extensive public engagement informed the development of this plan by providing insights into a 
shared vision for Hawai‘i's sustainable economic recovery.  The dialogue with stakeholders and the public 
recognized actions that organizations are already taking to achieve the SDGs, identified policy and program 
gaps, and recommended actions to enhance sustainability and climate change adaptation in Hawai‘i. 
This updated plan fulfills the revised the scope of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve as the State's 
climate and sustainability strategic action plan, pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65.  Hawai‘i has 
made sign ifican t sustainab ility commitments through laws, policies, and plans that reflect our local 
values.   For the first time, this updated plan presents Hawai‘i's commitments as a collective whole and aligned 
with the SDGs. There is much work yet to be done to achieve these sustainability and climate goals and 
commi tments. 
This plan  identifies 8 focus areas with 38 strategies and more than 250 recommended actions that 
poin t to what is urgent to undertake over this decade.  These focus areas align with priorities identified 
through public and stakeholder engagement, as well as ongoing commitments the State has made as described 
in this plan. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan
Charting a Cour se for the D ecade of Action  (2020–2030)
 10FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DECADE OF ACTION: 
UL TIMATELY, A SUCCESSFUL DECADE OF ACTION 
IN HAWAI‘I WILL REQUIRE:Prom ote a 
Sustainable 
Economic Recovery 
through strategies that 
support local
agriculture, 
green workforce 
development and 
education, and 
sustainable and 
regenerative tourism.Reduce Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
by continuing to 
monitor the state's 
emissions and reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions through 
strategies in the energy, 
transportation, 
agriculture and waste 
sectors.
Advance Equity  
by e nsuring equitable 
access to resources,
addressing affordable 
housing and 
homelessness crises, 
and improving gender 
equity.Institutionalize 
Sustainability 
Th roughout 
Government  
by increasing the 
government's capacity 
through 
institutionalized 
collaboration to address 
sustainability and 
greening government 
operations.Improve Climat e 
Resilience by 
continuing to 
monitor and adapt to 
climate impacts and 
take actions to 
increase the 
resilience of the 
natural and built 
environments and 
their occupants.
Preserve 
the Natural 
Environment, 
including a focus on 
clean water, marine 
resources and 
ecosystems, and 
natural resource 
protection.Advance Sustainable 
Com munities through 
strategies that improve 
land use and access 
to green space, advance 
sustainable practices in 
schools, and encourage 
sustainable 
buildings and 
infrastructure.
Perpetuate 
Traditional 
Ecological Knowledge  
and Values 
as Hawai‘i 
collectively tackles 
these sustainability and 
climate challenges.1
5 6 7 82 3 4
•Strategic prioritization of 
limited resources.  When 
prioritizing investments, 
funders should evaluate 
whether the activity 
contributes to one or more 
SDG, is ready for action 
(e.g., existing targets, 
policies, plans, and/
or partnerships are in 
place), addresses an urgent 
need, directly or indirectly 
addresses equity, explicitly 
protects Hawai‘i's local 
values, and will benefit 
local residents. • Identification and 
commitment from lead
 and 
supporting actors.  There 
are opportunities for 
everyone (elected officials, 
state agencies, counties, the 
private sector, community 
organizations, students, and 
residents) to lead or support 
efforts to achieve these 
strategies.
Collaboration is essential.• Development of metrics 
to define success and then 
enable measurement and 
tracking of our progress. 
Defined endpoints and 
metrics for success 
will make it possible to 
measure advancements 
and identify where gaps 
remain; in some cases, 
targets and metrics have 
already been identified 
whereas a collective vision
will need to be developed 
in other cases.•  A realistic timeline to 
work toward.  We can move 
quickly to start some 
strategies, for which 
sustained efforts will be 
necessary to make steady, 
incremental progress. 
Other sustainability and 
climate strategies may 
require significant upfront 
planning, buy-in from 
disparate parties, and 
securing financial support 
before a swift and dramatic 
change can be made. 
Establishing clear and 
feasible timelines that set 
out incremental milestones
will ensure greater success. 
Let's work together to achieve an equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i!
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    11
HAWAI‘I'S SU STAINABILITY
& CLIMATE JOURNEY  
Let Everyone Pitch In And Work Tog ether
1998
20052008
20112012
2014This updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability P lan 
is not the state's first step on the journey 
toward a sustainable future:
The State published its 
first Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Action Plan.
Act 8, Special Session 
Laws of Hawai‘i 2005 
established the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Task Force 
(2005–2008) and directed 
the task force to develop the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan.The Hawai‘i State Auditor 
published the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability Plan to 
address the vital needs of 
Hawai‘i through the year 
2050 and beyond.
The State's 
Sustainability Priority 
Guidelines were codified 
in the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act, as HRS 
§226-108.The State's Climate 
Change Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines were codified in 
the Hawai‘i State Planning 
Act, as HRS §226-109.
Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 69 was 
passed to establish 
the Aloha+ Challenge 
Goals, which were 
inspired by the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability 
Plan.
 122017
20182019Hawai‘i became the 
first state in the nation 
to enact legislation 
committing to the 
United Nations Paris 
Agreement, through the 
enactment of Act 32, 
Session Laws of 
Hawai‘i 2017.The Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Mitigation and 
Adaptation Commission 
was established by 
HRS §225P-3.
and 
The State's Greenhouse Gas 
Sequestration Task Force was 
established through HRS §225P-4, 
to increase greenhouse gas 
sequestration.  
and 
The Hawai‘i State Auditor, with the 
assistance of the State of Hawai‘i's 
Office of Planning, undertook a 10-
year measurement of the 2008 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
that evaluated the plan's progress 
between 2008 and 2017.Act 14 6, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 
2019, codified as HRS §226-65, 
amended the scope of the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
to serve as the State's climate and 
sustainability strategic action plan 
to determine future actions guiding 
coordination and implementation 
of sustainability and climate 
adaptation goals, principles, and 
policies . The law directs the State 
of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning to 
update the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan every 10 years.
20202021
The State of Hawai‘i's 
Office of Planning 
was revised by Act 
45, Session Laws 
of Hawai‘i 2020, to 
provide statewide 
sustainability, climate 
adaptation, and sea 
level rise adaptation 
planning and 
coordination.The State officially established 
the state's first Statewide Sustainability Program also through Act 45, codified as Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8, to provide statewidesustainability and climateadaptation planning andcoordination. The StatewideSustainability Program is directedto develop, organize, and promotepolicies and programs that assistin the meeting of Hawai‘i'snumerous sustainability andclimate policies and goals.The State of 
Hawai‘i became 
the first state 
in the nation to 
declare a climate 
emergency by 
adopting Senate 
Concurrent 
Resolution 44.This document, the updated Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan, was released.The Hawai‘i State 
Legislature passed House 
Bill (HB) 1149
1 and HB 
1318,1which together, 
consolidate government land 
use functions of different 
agencies in order to improve 
the coordination of state 
government to work more 
efficiently to achieve the 
state's sustainability and 
climate change goals for 
a more abundant future 
for the people of Hawai‘i, 
and renames the Office of 
Planning to the “Office of 
Planning and Sustainable 
Development.”
1 At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature and transmitted to 
the Governor for consideration.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    13
The State of  Hawai‘i's L egal and Statutory Sustainability Targets
The  State of Hawai‘i has enacted and codified many  legal an d statut ory targets to prepare for and transition 
Hawai‘i toward its sustainable and climat e-resilien t future . 
2000
2010
2015
2020
2022
2030  Statewide Recycling Goal HRS §342G-3 
Establishes a statewide goal to reduce the solid waste stream prior to disposal by 50% through source 
reduction, recycling, and bioconversion by January 1, 2000
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard
 HRS §269-92
Requires each electric utility company that sell
s electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 
10% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2010.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the State to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 15% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2015.
Statewide Greenhouse Gas Emissions Limit HRS §342B-71 
Establishes a statewide greenhouse gas emissions cap to be equal to or below the level of the statewide 
greenhouse gas emissions in 1990 by the year 2020.
Statewide Prohibition of Coal Power HRS §269-48 
Prevents the State Public Utilities Commission from approving new, renewed, or extending power proposals 
within the state to burn or consume coal to generate electricity beginning June 30, 2020. 
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard  HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 30% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2020.
Statewide Ban of Coal Power for Electricity Generation  HRS §342B-36 
Concludes all coal burning within the state on December 31, 2022. 
Statewide Departmental Proc
urement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 10% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural  products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by 
January 1, 2025.
Statewide Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standards  HRS §269-96 
Requires that 4,300 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity use be reduced by 2030.
Double Local Food Production Act 151, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019 
Directs the State Department of Agriculture to develop a strategic plan to double local food production and 
increase food exports by 2030.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard  
HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 
40% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2030.
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State
Legislature and transmitted to the Governor
 for consideration.BY: TARGET:
 142025Clean Transportation Goal: State Fleet Transition to Zero Emission Vehicles HB 552, 2021*
Requires the transition of 100% of the State's fleet that are light-duty motor vehicles passenger cars to be zero-
emission vehicles by December 31, 2030.
Local Farm  to School Meal Goal HB 767, 2021*
Requires the State Department of Education to serve 30% of food served in public schools to consist of locally sourced 
products by 2030.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 18% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2030.
Hawai‘i Public Schools Net-Zero Energy Goal HRS §302A-1510 
Requires the State Department of Education to becom e net-zero in energy use, producing as much renewable energy 
as it consumes across all  public school facilities by January 1, 2035. 
University of Hawai‘i Net-Zero Energy Goal HRS §304A-119 
Requires the University of Hawai‘i to become net-zero in energy use, producing as much renewable energy as it 
consumes across all cam puses by January 1, 2035. 
Clean Transportation Goal: State Fleet Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle HB 552, 2021*
Requires the transition of 100% of the State's fleet for all other light-duty motor vehicles to be zero-emission vehicles 
by December 31, 2035.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 26% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2035.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a renewable 
portfolio standard of 70% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2040.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each State department to ensure that 34% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2040.
Reclaimed Water in State and County Facilities  HRS §174C-31 (g) (6) 
Requires the use of reclaimed water in 100% of State and County facilities, except for drinking and potable water 
uses, by December 31, 2045.
Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target HRS §225P-5 
Establishes a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and greenhouse gases than emitted within the 
state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269- 92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consum ption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 100% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2045.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*
Requires each State department to ensure that 42% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2045.
Statewide Cesspool Conversion HRS §342D-72 
Requires the mandatory upgrade, conversion, or connection of all cesspools statewide (over 88,000 cesspools) by 
January 1, 2050.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*
Requires each state department to ensure that 50% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2050.2035  BY: TARGET:
2045
20502040  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    15
2030
(Continued)  The Aloha+ Challenge
The Sustainable Hawai‘i InitiativeInspired by the 2008 publication of  
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, and the Micronesian Challenge, the State of  Hawai‘i adopted Senate Concurrent Resolution 69 in 2014 establishing the Aloha+ Challenge goals. Unlike the legal and statutory targets presented in the previous section, the Aloha+ Challenge Goals are not legally codified but set informal, integrated goals and six ambitious targets to be achieved by 2030.By 2030:
1. Clean Energy: Achieve 70% clean energy, with 40% from renewable sources and 30% from efficiency, with a view toward100% renewable energy by 2045.  
2. Local Food:  At least double the local food production with agoal of 20–30% of food consumed being grown locally.  
3. Natural Resource Management:  Reverse the trend of natural resource loss mauka to makai by increasing watershed protection, community-based marine management, invasive species prevention and control, increasing freshwater capacity,and restoration of native species.  
4. Waste Reduction:  Reduce the solid waste stream prior todisposal by 50%, through source reduction, recycling, and bioconversion.
5. Smart Sustainable Communities:  Increase livability and
resilience in the built environment through planning and implementation at the state and county levels.  
In September 2016, the State of  Hawai‘i hosted the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) World Conservation Congress, with more than 10,000 participants from 192 countries. At this meeting, the State announced its Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative, which focuses on conservation and environmental sustainability. These commitments are not legally binding and may be updated or replaced by commitments codified in law.Sustainable Hawai‘i Commitments:
1. Double local food production by 2020
2. Implement the Interagency Biosecurity Plan by 20273. Protect 30% of Hawai‘i priority watersheds by 20304. Effectively manage 30% of Hawai‘i nearshore ocean waters  
by 20305. Achieve 100% renewable energy by 2045
 16Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    17THE UPDATE PROCESS
FOR THE HAWAI‘I 2050 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
The State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning began a process to update the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  during 
Earth Week in 2020, at the outset of the COVID-19 global pandemic.  As the pandemic stretched on and 
development of the plan progressed, it became increasingly clear that a sustainable economic recovery must be 
central to Hawai‘i's sustainability and climate resil ience efforts over this decade.
Consistent with a community-driven approach, this update relied on input from stakeholders and the public 
through an engagement process that involved two surveys , nine virtual information-sharing sessions, interviews 
with stakeholders, and a broad public outreach effo rt.  Input from these engagements informed the development of 
this plan by providing insights into a shared vision for  a sustainable economic recovery, recognizing actions  that 
various organizations are already taking to achieve the SDGs, discussing policy and program gaps, and identifying 
actions to enhance sustainability and climate change adaptation in Hawai‘i . 
The Office of Planning reviewed more than 150 existing l aws, plans, policies, programs, and strategies relevan t to 
sustainability and climate change in  Hawai‘i to dete rmine how their activities and recommendations align with the 
17 SDGs and identify gaps where individual SDGs are n ot being addressed by existing efforts.  Based on the findings 
of this review and the public input gathered during th e surveys and information-sharing sessions, the Of fice of 
Planning then developed an initial list of recommended actions for the 2020–2030 timeframe.  A draft plan was 
shared with stakeholders throughout State and County government agencies to solicit feedback and inpu t on 
priority focus areas.  Ultimately, the Office of Planning identified a set of near-term priority focus areas based on 
pressing climate resilience and economic, social, and environmental issues, this plan's extensive stakeholder 
feedback and public outreach process, and State initiat ives and priorities.  The selection process prioritized 
actions that address multiple SDGs, have strong support fr om stakeholders and the public, and can be impleme nted 
in this decade (between 2020 and 2030).
2
9
17150230
U.N. Sustainabl e Development Goals (SDGs)Public surveys 
Public Virtual Information Sharing Sessions 
Participating
 agencies, organizations, 
and nonprofits
Existing plans, policies, progams, strategies 
 18Key concepts shared 
by public participants that emerged that are essential to Hawai‘i sustainable economic recovery included: •Haw ai‘i has unique challenges but also unique opportunities.
•Hawai‘i can look to the past for lessons for the futur e.  Hawai‘i
can benefit from the value in contemporary restoration of cultural 
practices. 
•Hawai‘i can serve as an example for other islands by modeling
sustainability. 
•Hawai‘i should pursue goals that increase equity and/or
explicitly address equity issues in their implementation. 
•The COVID-19 global pandemic had disproportionate impacts on 
ALICE® (Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed) 
households and communities, highlighting a need to invest more
resources and support in those communities. 
•The COVID-19 global pandemic has highlighted food securi ty
issues and the need to support local agriculture. 
•Boost childcare, eldercare, and education, and offer supp ort for 
women whose jobs and family roles were negatively impa cted by
the COVID-19 global pandemic.
•Rebuild the workforce by empowering youth, investing in green 
and clean energy workforce development, and upskilling the labor
force to compete in the global market through initiatives  such as 
strengthened broadband for remote work.
•Pursue innovative opportunities in the clean energy and 
agricultural sectors to enhance economic growth, workfor ce
development, and food security.
• Rely less on imports while making better use of existing local
resources—including local agriculture—to develop a circular 
economy to become more self-sufficient. 
• Build the economy to serve and be driven by local popu lations
(for example, through local food production).In addition, these public sessions and the feedback provided by the public participants identified where and how  Hawai‘i needs to focus its efforts to address these challenges and opportunities:Feedback from Public Engagement 
This plan aims to be useful to the many changemakers in  Hawai‘i whose actions have and will continue to help 
achieve its goals, including (but not limited to): elected officials, state agencies, county governments, community organizations, businesses, students and youth, and residents. Any one individual may represent several of these groups and may use different elements of this plan for different uses (for example, a nonprofit organization may find the content valuable in supporting their grant-writing efforts while elected officials and governmental entities may gain a clearer picture of what policies or actions are considered to be more urgent). As such, it was a critical time to engage with the public on a shared vision for an equitable, climate resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i .
Through nine virtual public information sharing sessions and two public outreach surveys, the Office of Planning 
solicited input from  Hawai‘i residents regarding their vision for a sustainable economic recovery from the COVID-19 global pandemic as well as current policy gaps or barriers to achieving Hawai‘i sustainable future. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    19
RECOMMITTING TO A 
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
This update serves as a checkpoint and an o pportunity for 
recommitment, especially in light of the vulnerab ilities 
further highlighted by the COVID-19 global pande mic.  
Now more than ever it is clear that Hawai‘i nee ds to b ecom e 
mor e resilient, adaptable, equitable, and e conomical ly 
diversified.  As Hawai‘i recovers and buil ds b ack s tronger from 
the  pandemic, the State can redefine a more s ustainab le and 
resilient way of life that can protect us against  future risks, 
including those from climate change.
This plan pursues outcomes reflected with a Kān aka 
Maoli worldview to mālama ‘āina and mālama Hon ua and 
contemporary restoration of cultural practice s, along wi th 
existing state policies (including the Hawai ‘i State  Plannin g 
Act and Functional Plan objectives), the Aloha+  Challen ge 
goals, the Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative g oals, and other 
sustainability and climate resilient laws, policies, and 
initiatives. 
We are not starting from scratch.
This updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  is alig ned with the SDGs, which provides a pathway  to achievi ng a 
better and more sustainable future for all , and thi s plan pl ays a key role in achieving those goals, guid ing economic 
diversification and development toward sustain ability while harnessing innovation and creativity to buil d resi lienc e 
to climate change and other future risks. 
Dev eloped with collaboration and input from sta kehold ers around the state, this updated plan provides 
recommendations for priority action areas over thi s decad e that will help advance these goals.  This plan does not 
provide a step-by-step guide for what each indi vidual and organization can and should do.  It is time to dr aw upon 
your networks, ‘ike, and enthusiasm to take the ste ps nee ded to ach ieve these goals to continue to mālama Hawai‘i for 
the benefit of Hawai‘i's future generations.“Sustainability” means achieving 
the following: 
•Resp ect of culture, character, beauty, and 
history
 of the state's island communities; 
•Striking balance between economic, social, 
community, and environmental priorities; and 
•Meeting the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations 
to meet their own needs. 
(Hawai‘i R
evised Statutes §226-2)
 20Thi s plan identifies 8 focus areas with 38 strate gies and more th an 250 re commended actions that that will help 
Hawai‘i become more equitable, clim ate resilient, and sustainable during this Decade of Act ion.  These focus areas 
align  with priorities identified through public an d stakeholder engagement, as well as ongoing commitments  the Sta te 
has  made as described in this plan.  
The 8 recommended focus areas for the Decade  of Action : 
Promote a 
Sustainable 
Economic Recovery 
through strategies 
that support 
local agriculture, 
green workforce 
development and 
education, and 
sustainable and 
regenerative tourism.Reduce 
Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
by continuing to 
monitor the state's 
emissions and reduce 
greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions 
through strategies in 
the energy, 
transportation, 
agriculture and waste 
sectors.
Advance Equity by 
ensuring equitable 
access to resources, 
addressing affordable 
housing and homelessness crises, 
and improving gender 
equity.Institutionalize 
Sustainability 
Throughout 
Government  
by increasing the 
government's 
capacity through 
institutionalized 
collaboration to 
address sustainability and greening 
government 
operations.Improve Cli mate 
Resilience by 
continuing to monitor 
and adapt to climate 
impacts and take 
actions to increase 
the resilience of the 
natural and built 
environments and 
their occupants.
Preserve 
the Natural 
Environment, 
including a focus on 
clean water, marine 
resources and 
ecosystems, and 
natural resource 
protection. Adva nce Sustainable 
Communities
 through 
strategies that improve 
land use and access 
to green space, advance 
sustainable practices in 
schools, and encourage 
sustainable buildings 
and infrastructure.
Perpetuate 
Traditional 
Ecological Knowledge  
and 
Values as H awai‘i 
collectively tackles 
these sustainability and 
climate challenges.1
5 6 7 82 3 4
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    21
HAWAI‘I'S COMMITMENT TO 
THE SDGS
The United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development identified 17 SDGs that represent an urgent call 
for global action to end poverty, improve health and edu cation, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth, 
while tackling climate change and preserving natural resources.  The United Nations designated 2020–2030 as 
the “Decade of Action,” a time to accelerate progress toward the SDGs through sustainable solutions in order to 
achieve the goals by 2030 (United Nations 2021).  There is a renewed sense of urgency to reduce emissions to 
mitigate the impacts of climate change and meet the goals of the United Nations Paris Agreement to limit global 
warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, above pre-industrial levels (IPCC 
2018). The UN SDGs provide a framework to work in alignment with the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
This plan uses the SDGs as a framework for assessing the State's current commitments to sustainability and 
priority actions to take over the coming decade.  The SDGs also form the framework of Hawai‘i's Aloha+ 
Challenge,
 a voluntary initiative that sets six statewide sustainability targets by 2030. 
Hawai‘i enters the Decade of Action with tremendous progress underway.  The COVID-19 global pandemic 
marked both a moment of crisis and a moment of opportunity for Hawai‘i's adaptive change, with the SDGs 
serving as a focal point to guide us toward a sustainable economic recovery.
The Role of Local Plans in Advancing Sustainability and Climate Resilience
The County General Plans and the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan are foundationally related within the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act.  Both planning requirements are codif ied within Part II, the Implementation Section of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act, and more importantly, the County General Plans serve as a foundation for county 
planning.  The current and future efforts to integrate the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Hawai‘i's legal and
statutory sustainability targets, sustainable development, and climate resilience into County General Plans can 
continue to play a pivotal role in county land use planning.  Other local plans and directives directly address 
climate change. In 2019, the Hawai‘i County C
ouncil adopted Resolution 322-19, similarly the Maui County 
Council adopted Resolution 19-209, both declaring a Climate Emergency (County of Hawai‘i 2019, County of 
Maui 2019).  Honolulu Mayor's Directive 18-2 requires
 “all City departments and agencies to take a proactive 
approach to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt projects to the physical impacts of climate change.”
Ex
amples of these plans include:
 
The County of Hawai‘i General Plan 2040 is being drafted to contain goals, measurable 
sustainability objectives, and policies and actions to achieve these sustainability objectives. 
The draft plan is structured using a sustainability framework to guide the development of the 
plan.  The County of Hawai‘i's draft General Plan 2040 incorp orates both climate change 
mitigation and adaptation strategies, and is intended to respect the culture, character, beauty 
and history of the Island of Hawai‘i while attempting to integr ate balance between 
environmental stewardship, social and community equity and economic sufficiency in order to 
meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations of the 
island to meet their own needs.  
Th e County of Hawai‘i Climate Action Plan is also concurrently  being drafted to include 
sectoral suggestions to: reduce emissions, including requiring owners and managers of multi-
family dwellings and multi-tenant commercial buildings to provide recycling; promote a 
circular economy that is designed to minimize pollution, extraction of fossil fuels, and raw 
materials; support using financial mechanisms to incentivize waste reduction; proposes County 
codes in ways that maximize landfill diversion such as requiring recycling at State and County 
offices, eliminating the sale of Styrofoam and single use  plastics, and prohibiting the disposal of 
organic waste at landfills; and promote pollution prevention and the adoption of sustainable 
practices by companies, communities, governmental organiza tions, and individuals.  
 22
The County's long-range planning documents  (RO H Ch apter 24) contain policies to reduce contam ination 
and non-point source pollution, increase wate r con servation, protect sensitive wetland environments, and  
are consistent with the Honolulu Board of Wate r Supply's W aters hed Management Plans (ROH Chapter 30). 
These County long-range development plans address K-12 sc hool facilities and those in potential growth 
areas support coordinated capacity planni ng, and  co-l ocation with parks and shared use facilities  with parks 
whe never feasible. Long-range planning docume nts incl ude policies that promote agriculture for the ‘Ewa,  
Ko‘olau Poko, Ko‘olau Loa, North Shor e, Wai‘anae, and Central O‘ahu regions.
The City and County of Honolulu Climate Ac tion Plan  (2020-2025) serves as a roadmap over 5 years 
aimed at reducing Honolulu’s biggest emitting sectors—t ransportation net works, building operations, and 
waste systems with 9 distinct strat egies and 47 measurable actions.
Th e O‘ahu Resilience Strategy describes key  action items to combat and prepare for the most 
devastating effects of climate change.  Core action ite ms include developing and implementing climate 
adaptation strategies and fostering a widespread un der stan ding of the threats of climate change to Hawa i‘i. 
The strategy also recommends partnerships and liaiso ns to leverag e volunteer and nonprofit assets and 
improve resilience. 
The Kaua‘i Kākou, Kaua‘i County's General Plan  was recen tly published in 2018.  The General Plan 
is based on the community's vision and goals  for Kaua‘i 's future: that Kaua‘i will be a sustainable island , a 
unique and beautiful place, a healthy and res ilient peopl e, and an equitable place with opportunity f or al l.  
The Kaua‘i County General Plan's vision of a s ustainable island describing the overarching g oal to grow 
responsibly to meet the needs of current and future  generations without depleting resources.  According 
to the General Plan, Kaua‘i residents widely agre ed that sustainability should drive the planning f or the  
future.  The Kaua‘i County General Plan explain s that  sustainable development does not endanger the 
natural systems that support life: air, wate r, soil, an d living organisms.  Sustainable development means 
meeting the basic needs of society and exte nding to all people the opportunity to satisfy their aspir ations for 
a better life.   As the plan explains, sustainable  development means integrating economic and 
environmental considerations in policy an d decision -makin g.Th e Maui Island Plan, adopted in 2012, reviews factors t hat influence the physical, social, and economic 
development of the island.  The plan addresses key environmental, housing, and economic development 
issues to provide recommendations to protect the community an d future generations.  Similarly, the West 
Maui Community Plan provides long-term vision for the com munity and is intended to serve as a policy 
guide for County agencies. 
The Lāna‘i Community Plan and the Moloka‘i Island Community Plan explore island specific 
challenges and opportunites regarding future sustainability.  The plans then provide a strategic framework 
to
 guide policies and actions needed to address the m ajor issues identified in the near future. 
The City and County of Honolulu's General Plan includes polic ies to:
• Prot
ect freshwater resources including stream retention, pollution protection, and designing surface
drainage and flood control systems in a way that will help preserve their natural settings. 
• Retain the viabilit
y of agriculture on O‘ahu including sufficient land retention, diversification, and job
creation.
• Support educa
tion for all age groups, employable skills education, research institutions, and to make
Honolulu an education center for the Pacific.
• Meet housing o
bjectives to 1) ensure a balanced mix of housing opportunities and choices for all
residents at prices they can afford, 2) minimize speculation in land and housing, and 3) provide 
residents with a choice of living environments that are close to employment, recreation, and commercial centers and are adequately served by transportation networks and public utilities.
Hawai'i 2050 Sust
 ainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    23
This section of the plan provides an overview of exi sting  
commi tments Hawai‘i has made toward each of the  17 SDGs, 
with a focus on existing laws, policies, an d strat egic plan s.  The 
list of laws, policies and plans is not exhaus tive,  but rat her  is 
intended as a representative sample demonstrat ing Hawai‘i's 
commi tment for each SDG, or its readiness to  address each  SDG 
based on existing policy structures and legal co mmit ments. 
The policy structures and legal instruments  provid e a 
framework for action.  It is also important  to consid er h ow this 
framework is being used to advance climate chan ge and 
sustainability goals, monitor results, and contin ue to  evolve 
state programs. 
This section is organized around the 17 SDGs. While presented 
as individual sections below, the 17 SDGs are interde pendent: 
imp leme nting actions under one goal can contribu te to  progress 
under many others. 
Each SDG section includes two components: OVERVIEW OF THIS NEXT 
SDG SECTION 
The Overview describes the 
importance of the SDG to the state of Hawai‘i, including Hawai‘i's challenges and opportunities associated with each SDG.Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 
summarizes the key la ws, policies, and strategic 
action plans that currently address each SD G.  
This section demonstrates Hawai‘i's 
commi tment t o the SDG and identifies relevant 
voluntary initiatives and informal targets th at 
have been set through agency policies, county  
governments, statewide initiatives, or s trate gic 
plans.1 2
 24
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    25Sustainable Development Goal 1
End poverty in all its forms everywhereNO POVERTY  
This UN goal includes targets that address: 
•Reducing extreme poverty
•Halving the number of people living in poverty
•Ensuring social protection sy
stems are in place to cover
poor and vulnerable populations
•Ensuring equal rights to economic resour
ces and
access to basic services, property, natural resources,
and technology
•Reducing vulnerability and exposure to climate-relatedextreme events and other disasters
Overview 
Many of Hawai‘i's residents struggle to afford housing, utilities, transportation, healthcare, 
and food.  Hawai‘i has the nation's highest rate of homelessness per capita, with an estimated 
15,000 homeless individuals throughout the state (State of Hawai‘i 2019).  The COVID-19 
global  pandemic has exacerbated existing economic stressors, dramatically decreased visitor 
arrivals, prompted unprecedented business closures, and increased unemployment 
throughout the state. 
 As a result, ALICE® (Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed) 
households have increased dramatically.
In addition to the stressors related to the COVID-19 global pandemic that have exacerbated 
existing economic hardships, Hawai‘i is also experiencing increased impacts from climate 
change, such as such as flooding, sea level rise, drought, and rising temperatures, that place 
further pressure on vulnerabl
e populations and communities. 
The State's most recent (2018) Self-Sufficiency Incom
e Standard estimates found that two of 
the five family composition groups (one adult, one child, and one adult, two children) were 
bel
ow self-sufficiency income needs (DBEDT 2019).  Further, limited access to broadband 
technology constrains economic access for all.
 26Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 1
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRA TEGIC PLANS  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-22 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-Cultural Advancement—Social Services
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-106 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines for the Provision of Affordable Housing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §201-3 (a)(5): Specific 
Research and Promotional Functions of the 
Department of Business, Economic Development, 
and TourismSets objectives to improve public and private social services to enable self-reliance and 
well-being.
Prioritizes the need and access for affordable housing as a priority guideline for the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act to address as an issue of statewide concern.
Requires the Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism (DBEDT) to 
establish and biennially update self-sufficiency income standards, the amount of money individuals and families require to meet their basic needs without subsidies.
Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study (2019)  
Affordable Rental Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan (2018)
Housing Functional Plan (2017)Serves as a comprehensive assessment of housing markets in Hawai‘i to provide housing 
partners with relevant and crucial information.
Provides specific strategies, policies, and priority actions  to address the current housing 
shortage in Hawai‘i through a statewide plan ning system. Provides policymakers with a plan to achieve the afforda ble rental housing goal of 22,500 
units by December 31, 2026 laid out in Act 127 (Session  Laws of Hawai‘i 2016). 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    27
Developed a baseline of affordable rental units curren tly in the  planning stages or under 
development, implementing actions, and measures of eff ectiveness to guide achievement 
of the affordable rental housing goals.
Provides next step recommendations on ways to support affordable rental housing in the 
state.
Guides the implementation of the Hawai‘i State Plan housing goals and objectives.
Covers four priority areas, which include expanding and preserving rental housing 
opportunities, increase homeownership, addressing barriers to residential development, 
and maintaining a housing information system.
Includes clearly defined problem statements followed b y objectives, policies, implementing 
actions and accessory details such as lead organization, budget estimates, start date and 
measures of effectiveness.Defines state policy objectives for advancing opportunities f or affordable housing and the 
orderly development of residential areas sensitive to community needs and other land 
uses.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-19 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—HousingSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Volunteers from Pu‘uhonua o Puna at the hub’s food pantry distributing emergency 
food and supplies to evacuees and residents affected by the 2018 Kīlauea lava eruption.  
Photo Credit: Harry Durgin. 
Photo Right: Fissure 8, officially named Ahu‘ailā‘au, from  the 2018 Kīlauea lava eruption. 
Photo Credit: Andrew Richard Hara. 
Over 15% of Hawai‘i's 
residents living in a lava 
flow hazard zone make less than $30,000 a year (HIEMA 2018a). Low income is among the major risk factors for an individual's disaster resiliency, as are community-level components like physical infrastructure. However, community resiliency also involves another critical component: social capital. In fact, this element can be an even better predicator of efficient disaster recovery than economic characteristics (Aldrich & Meyer 2015).In May 2018, “fissure 8,” officially named “Ahu‘ailā‘au,” 
opened in the Puna district of Hawai‘i Island, marking the 
start of an unprecedented eruption in modern Hawai‘i for
 its 
size and extent of the damage (NPS 2018).  While considered an 
economically disadvantaged area, behind that economic picture 
Puna is greatly abundant in social capital, and the community's 
leverage of its interpersonal strengths was key to weathering the 
Kīlauea eruption (County of Hawai‘i 2020).  The epitome of this 
could be seen in Pu‘uhonua o Puna, or “The Hub”: a spontaneous 
organization by Puna residents to give evacuees the support they 
needed during the eruption.  Aptly named, Pu‘uhonua o Puna 
offered people a place of refuge and sense of belonging, and personal 
networks were utilized to great effect to meet almost any need as it 
arose.  An awareness of the mental and physical toll of the eruption 
led to organizing support like art and music therapy, massage, and 
healthcare screenings.  Hot meals, made by partners like World 
Central Kitchen, were offered with a flexibility suited to families. A 
mobile showering unit on loan from Project Vision gave a much-
needed place to refresh, and led to grassroots fundraising and 
purchase of a unit dedicated to Hawai‘i Island.  Underpinning 
everything was a spirit of service, generosity, and dedication as 
volunteers and evacuees alike—and oftentimes they were one and 
the same—rose up to help and support fellow community members. 
Pu‘uhonua o Puna also built up a new generation of local leadership, 
ready to apply lessons learned from The Hub to catalyze further 
capacity-building efforts.  Even two years later, this experience 
provided a template for other organizations like Vibrant Hawai‘i to 
scale the solution and deliver a COVID-19 global pandemic 
response island wide.  This shows that with a strong social network, 
communities are far more capable than pure economics would 
belie, and when given the tools and a chance, they can and will 
direct their own resiliency trajectory.
 28SUSTAINING HAWAI‘IHawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    29ZERO HUNGER  
Sustainable Development Goal 2 
End hunger
, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable agriculture
This UN goal includes targets for ending hunger, achieving 
food security, improving nutrition, and promoting sustainable 
 agriculture. 
Overview
Hawai‘i relies heavily on imported food, due to challenges associated with local food 
production (including the cost of land and labor, lack of available capital, lack of investment, 
lack of infrastructure, and competition with subsidized and/or less regulated agriculture). 
Hawai‘i imports approximately 85–90% of its food and is particularly reliant on imports for 
eggs, milk, and livestock (Office of Planning 2012).  However, the state is located thousands of 
miles from its imported food sources, which creates vulnerability at the supply-chain level.  
The COVID-19 global pandemic increased awareness of the state's heavy reliance on imported 
food.
From  an economic standpoint, it is less expensive to import food tha n to grow it locally. 
Moreover, demand for local food is limited as many consumers are not aware of the benefits of 
locally grown food or have difficulty identifying it in markets (Office of Planning 2012). 
Additionally, many residents of Hawai‘i already struggle to afford food at current prices.  This 
has been exacerbated due to the pandemic.  As of March 2021, a University of Hawai‘i study 
found that 58% of Hawai‘i families experience food insecurity, and 15% report not having 
enough food sometime or often in the previous week (Pruitt et a
l. 2021).  Furthermore, about 
370,000 (approximately 26%) of Hawai‘i residents live in food deserts, which means they live 
more than one mile (if in urban areas) or more than 10 miles (if in rural  areas) from grocery 
stores with access to fresh foods, and thus may rely more on processed or fast foods that have 
less nutritional  content (Brace et al. 2020).
Achieving this SDG will bring multiple benefits. Sustainable local food production can enhance 
the l
ivelihood of local  farmers, reduce emissions from transporting food long distances to 
Hawai‘i, and improve the resilience of communities to economic shocks such as climate-related 
storm events, public health crises, natural disasters, or other supply chain disruptions. 
Strategic capital investment and policies could address and remove some of the barriers to 
local food production (these recommendations are found on page 98 of this plan). 
 30Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 2
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-7 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and 
Policies for the Economy—Agriculture
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205, Part III: 
Important Agricultural Lands
Act 151, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019Encourages the purchase and use of locally grown food.
Assures the availability of suitable farmland with adequate water resources.Supports diversified agriculture.Increases opportunities for an agricultural education and livelihood.Increases the use of traditional Hawaiian farming systems and traditional Hawaiian crops.
Declares that the people of Hawai‘i have a substantial interest in the health and 
sustainability of agriculture as an industry in the state.
Defines important agricultural lands and protects those lands from use for 
non-agricultural purposes.
Identifies a compelling state interest in conserving the state's agricultural land resource 
base and assuring the long-term availability of agricultural lands for agricultural use.
Requires development of a strategic action plan to achieve doubling food production goal 
and equivalent consumption.
Department of Agriculture Strategic Plan to Double Local Food Production and Increase Food Exports by 2030 
Good Food for All: Advancing Health Equity through 
Hawai‘i's Food System (2018)
Office of Planning's Increased Food 
Security and Food Self-Sufficiency Strategy (2012)Will outline strategic actions to achieve  the state's doubling food production target.
Defines three strategic objectives: 
1)increase demand for and access to locally grown foods,
2)increase production of locally grown foods, and
3)provide policy and organizational support to meet food self-sufficiency needs.Identifies strategies for improving food security in Hawai‘i.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes an overarching goal to at least double local food production 
by 2030, with 20–30% of food consumed grown locally. The initiative includes five underlying indicators to support this goal.
Statewide Agricultural Land Use Baseline (2015)Updates a 1980 survey and provides current information and maps on the locations of Hawai‘i’s farms and ranches. The baseline study is intended to help industry, government and the community in making decisions that affect agriculture land use in the state.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
  ||    31
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
According to the USDA, 93%  
of farms in Hawai‘i were 
family-owned in 2017 (USDA 
2017b).  Hawai‘i's agricultural 
sector is predominantly small, 
family-owned farms and 
ranches, with over 60% of all 
operations making less than 
$10,000 in annual sales 
(USDA 2017b).  To meet the 
State's target of doubling local 
food production by 2030, 
much work will be needed to 
support these families in 
scaling up production.Agriculture is particularly prominent on Hawai‘i Islan d, 
wh ose farms make up nearly half of all state agric ultur al 
sales (USDA 2017a).  Thus, when the COVID-19 global pandemic 
left agricultural producers hard-hit, the Co unty of Hawai‘i 
partnere d with the Hawai‘i Farm Bureau to create t he Big Island 
Rura l Agricultural Industries Distribution and  Grow ing En terprise 
Strateg ies (BRIDGES) Program: a dual-focus prog ram to  address 
the burgeoning food insecurity while su pportin g the  island's 
agricultural industry (Truesdale 2021).  T he program r eceived 
funding  from the County of Hawai‘i, private donors, an d fed eral 
CA RES funding to keep producers on the island growin g while 
securing  food for families impacted by the pandemic (T ruesdale 
2021).  To provide more assistance to the comm uni ty, th e State 
of Hawa i‘i temporarily expanded the “DA BUX” ( Double Bucks) 
program—which matches SNAP recipients‘ dollars  up to $10 a  
day whe n buying local produce—and doubled this matc h to $25 a 
day and included the purchase of local ground bee f and egg s 
(Ulupono Initiative 2020).  Although both B RIDGE S and the DA 
BUX  expansion ended in December 2020, SB 512 was pas sed during 
the  2021 Legislative Session to provide a permanent r evis ion of the 
DA BUX program which removes the dollar-amount cap and all ows 
for local healthy proteins to be added to the pro gram's  eligibi lity list 
(Hawai‘i State Legislature 2021a).*   The  success and popularity of 
the se programs garnered awareness to ensure equitab le food acces s, 
as well as highlighted the importance of incr eas ing mar ket demand 
for local agricultural products in order to ach ieve the  State's 
sustainability target to double local food pro ductio n by 2030.
Photo Left: Tomato farm on Hawai‘i  Island.  Photo Credit: Hawai‘i  Farm Bureau. 
Photo Right: Farm-to-Table produce farm in Waimea, Hawai‘i  Island. 
Photo Credit: State of H awai‘i , Hawai‘i  Tourism Authority. 
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
and transmitted to the Governor for consideration.
 32Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    33
GOOD HEALTH
AND WELL-BEING
Sustainable Developmen t Goal 3 
Ensur
e healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
UN targets related to this goal include: 
•Reducing the negative impacts of environment
al factors on health
•Combating communicable and non-communicable diseases through
improv
ed and expanded prevention, and the support of research and
development for vaccines and medicines
•Achieving universal healthcare cov
erage and access to essential
healthcare services
•Expanding the availability of mental health resources, substanceabuse treatment, and sexual and reproductive healthcare services
Overview
Hawai‘i is often considered one of the healthiest states in the nation, in part due to high public 
health funding, air quality, and low prevalence of obesity relative to the rest of the United States.  
In addition, Hawai‘i's Prepaid Health Care Act of 1974 increased access to affordable, quality 
heal
thcare.  Less than 4% of Hawai‘i's residents lack health insurance.  However, this rate increases 
for Native Hawaiians to about 15% (Creamer 2019a).  Upwards of 25% of non-Hawaiian Pacific 
Islanders were without health insurance as of 2013 (DOH 2020).  A recent federal law was passed 
through the COVID-19 Economic Relief legislation signed in 2020, which reinstated that citizens of 
the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau are entitled to federal Medicaid 
coverage, throughout the U.S., and especially in Hawai‘i (Public Law 116-260).  This expanded 
community access to healthcare services during the COVID-19 pandemic, and assisted Hawai‘i-
based community healthcare providers to deliver additional  treatment to these vulnerable 
communities.
Other health disparities have been documented across socioecono
mic groups in Hawai‘i.  The 
federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that residents of Hawai‘i living in high-
income zip codes have average lifespans about 10 years longer than those living in low-income zip 
codes (DOH  2020).
Widespread health challenges remain, particularly the high rates of diabetes. About half of 
Hawai‘i's residents are at risk of developing diabetes or currently have it (DOH 2020).  This 
is tied in part to the issues described under SDG 2 above: food security is an issue for 58% of 
Hawai‘i residents (Pruitt et al. 2021).  Additionally, residents who receive food assistance through 
Hawai‘i's emergency food relief system often receive donated foods that have high levels of fat and 
sugar and poor nutritional quality, impacting residents who receive food assistance (Creamer 
2019a). 
Other health challenges include lack of access to mental health services, rising e-cigarette use by 
youth, public heal
th impacts from climate change (such as heavy rain, flooding, sea level rise, and 
hurricanes), and poor diet and exercise trends.  There is also a dearth of detox facilities to help 
treat those with drug- and alcohol-related disorders (DOH 2020).  Notably, Hawai‘i was ranked 
among the 10 worst states in the United Health Foundation 2018 Report in two categories: 
excessive drinking and Tdap (Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis) immunizations (Creamer 2019b).
 34Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 3
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-20 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural A
dvancement—Health
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 321—
Department of Health Includes provisions for improving access t o physical and mental health treatment, 
including substance abuse, preventing contamination by pesticides and hazardous 
substances, and reducing health disparities among disproportionately affected 
demographics.
Directs the development of environmental goals and objectives to ensure that air quality, 
land, coastal waters, inland waters, and groundwater are protected.  
(§321-1.1: Development of environmental goals and objectives)
Organizes environmental protection programs to improve the coordination of 
environmental planning and oversight. (§321- 1.1: Development of environmental goals 
and objectives)
Outlines the powers, duties, and functions of the Department of Health relating to 
preventative medicine (§321-31), dental health needs (§321-62), nutrition training and 
education (§321-81), children's mental health services (§321-171), substance abuse 
prevention, rehabilitation, treatment, education, and research (§321-193), and maternal 
and child health (§321-321), among other areas.
State Health Improvement Plan, Healthy 
Hawai‘i 2
020: A Community Health Plan 
(2020)
2016-2020 Tobacco Use Prevention and 
Control in Hawai‘i: Five-Year Strategic 
Plan (2016)
Hawai‘i Coordinated Chronic Disease 
Framework Plan (2014)
Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Pla n 
(2013)Includes goals, strategies, and actions that address health and well-being, disease 
prevention, healthy lifestyles, healthy environment, and physical and mental healthcare.
Identifies community health needs of Hawai‘i communities with special attention paid to 
health disparities and the needs of vulnerable populations.
Identifies an integrated approach and is meant to be used as a guide to enable 
coordination o
f multiple programs across common risk factors, interventions, 
and strategies.
Identifies priority objectives to integrate physical activity and nutrition into the daily lives 
of the people of Hawai‘i.Identifies the priority populations, people using tobacco at the highest rate in Hawai‘i, and 
measurable objectives to achieve by 2020. 
Outlines strategies, recommended community activities and targeted outputs, and key 
outcome indicators to measure progress towards achieving health equity.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  Partnerships with the State and community-based health care providers have contributed 
to
 the delivery of a broad range of services at schools including co-located health 
centers, skilled nursing, immunization clinics, and screening events to address student 
health needs.  Primary prevention strategies to develop student skills, knowledge, and 
positive health behaviors are reinforced by the Wellness Guidelines and include nutritious 
school meal programs, comprehensive health education, and standards-based physical 
education programs (DOE 2021). Educational attainment has also been shown to 
improve public health and health equity.
Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030 (202 0) Serves as a ten year strategic plan to prevent and reduce the burden of chronic disease in 
Hawai‘i and reinforces the following chronic disease prevention and management strategic 
plans for the state: Hawai‘i Asthma Plan 2030,  Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030, Hawai‘i 
Diabetes Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Heart Disease and Stroke Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Physical 
Activity and Nutrition Plan 2030, and the Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 
2030.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    35
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
There are 322.6 practicing 
doctors in Hawai‘i for  
ev
ery 100,
000 people 
(HRSA 2020). Although 
Hawai‘i is a top-ranked 
state in this regard, the fact 
remains that healthcare 
providers ar
e distributed 
unevenly acros
s the state 
and not everyone can afford 
healthcare (HRSA 2020, 
KFF 2019).  Increasing 
physical and financial 
access to healthcare for all 
residents will need to be a 
continued priority to ensure 
a sustainable Hawai‘i.As the island's only Federally Qualified Health 
Center, Lāna‘i Community Health Center serves as a 
cor nerstone of continued efforts to provide healthcare 
services to Lāna‘i's residents (HRSA 2021).  Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center's goal is to pr
ovide “culturally 
sensitive, holistic, patient-centered” care, offering services like 
language translation, behavioral health, obstetrics, internet 
access, and assistance in applying for public benefits.  As a 
Feder
ally Qualified Health Center, these s
ervices are available 
for everyone regardles
s of their ability to pay for medical care. 
In a place with very limited medical facilities—the island 
only has one ambulance and four beds in its emergency room 
at Lāna‘i Community Hospital—and considering that over 
three-fifths of Lāna
‘i Community Health Center's pa
tients 
are low-income, having affordable access to primary and 
specialty health services and assistance in navigating the 
healthcare system is paramount
 for community members (Wu 
2020, Meyers 2020, Lāna‘i Community Health Center 2020). 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center further expands its reach 
to patients through its telehealth program, for which it has 
been nationally recognized, and pr
oviding educ
ation to the 
community on important wellness topics in an approachable, 
culturally sensitive way (Lāna‘i Community Health Center 
2020, HIMSS 2018).  During the COVID-19 global pandemic, 
coordinating and managing patient care became even more 
imperative to avoid overwhelming Lāna‘i's medical system. 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center work
ed together with the 
other Lāna‘i medical agencies to provide COVID-19 testing and 
vaccine distribution, assisted with contact tr
acing challenges
, 
and provided community education and translated outreach 
materials to increase vaccine buy-in (Grossman 2021). 
 Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center was also designa
ted to receive 
COV ID-19 vaccine doses to increase access for underserved 
populations, and by June 2021, Lāna‘i Community Health 
Center and other providers were able to provide COVID-19 
vaccinations to nearly 70% of the island's population (KITV 
2021, Cerizo 2021, U.S. Census Bureau 2011).  Lāna‘i's vaccine 
campaign demonstrated the impact of targ
eted resources 
delivered through trusted, local organizations, and although 
health inequalities still persist for Lāna‘i's residents, Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center remains committed to bringing 
care to and advocating for the needs of its patients in order to 
reduce those disparities.
Photo Left: Volunteers at Lāna‘i community COVID-19 vaccine distribution event.
Photo Credit: Lāna‘i Community Health Center. 
Photo Right: Lāna‘i Community Health Center, Lāna‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: Lāna‘i Community Health Center. 
 36Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    37QUALITY EDUCATION
Sustainable Development Goal 4
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities for all 
This UN goal promotes widespread “inclusive and equitable” 
education and educational opportunities for all ages and involves 
targets that address: 
•Achieving widespread literacy and numeracy
•Ensuring the equal access of all genders, abilities, and racial and
ethnic backgr
ounds to quality pre-primary, primary, secondary, and
tertiary education including technical school, vocational training,and university
•
Educating all learners with the knowledge and skills necessary topromot
e sustainable development
•Improving access to quality education by upgrading learningfacilities to be inclusive to all, increasing the number of qualifiedteachers, and expanding the number of scholarships available todeveloping countries
Overview
Measures of educational quality and performance from Hawai‘i's Every Student Succeeds A ct 
(ESSA) report show disparities between racial and socioeconomic subgroups of students, 
with Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, disabled, economically disadvantaged, English l earner, 
homeless, and students in foster care showing lower proficiencies in language arts, 
mathematics, and science; lower graduation rates; lower col lege-going rates; and higher 
chronic absenteeism rates than the average “
all students” group or their white counterparts 
(DOE 2020b).  However, National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) scores and 
other measures of academic success (e.g., the number of Advanced Placement exam takers, 
percent of 12th graders completing a Career and Technical Education program of study, etc.) 
have shown improvement in recent years (2016–2019) (DOE 2020a). 
To continue improvement, major focuses for this goal are on improving teacher recruitment 
and retention and increasing revenue sources for secondary education.
The challenge of providing both remote and in-person K-12 instruction when the COVID-19 
global pandemic struck Hawai‘i highlighted the increased need for broadband connectivity 
and d igital equity throughout the state.
 38Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 4
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-21 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—Education
The University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
The University of Hawai‘i Executive Policy 
4.202: System Sustainability
State of Hawai‘i Board of Education – K-12 
Literacy Policy 102-2
State of Hawai‘i Board of Education- 
Sustainability Policy 301-9Outlines educational priorities within the  state, in cluding accessible educational 
opportunities.
Includes targets to:
Increase the educational capital of the state by increasing the participation and completion 
of students, particularly Native Hawaiians, low- income students and those from 
underserved regions and populations and prepa ring them for success in the workforce and 
their communities.
Increase the percentage of working age adu lts with two-or four- year degrees to 55% by 
2025.
Requires the university system to develop goals, metrics,  and plans that address a 
comp rehensive sustainability strategy in operat ions, curr iculum, research and 
scholarship, campus and community engagement, and cultural connections.
Defines the literacy standards all studen ts must mee t to be deemed literate.
Dicta tes that schools must provide a “balanced and compr ehensive reading and writing 
program.”
Mandates schools have an effective early rea ding and writing program, and that students 
ident ified by the department as not proficient re ceive  necessa ry assistance and support.
Mandates the department to establish regulat ions and guidelines that include 
incorporating the importance of sustainability and e nvironmental stewardship at the 
classroom level.
Hawai‘i State Literacy Plan: 2020 (2020)
Hawai‘i State Department of Education and 
Board of Education Strategic Plan: 2017–
2020 (2016)
Hawai‘i Green Workforce: A Baseline 
Assessment (2010)Developed in partnership with state, university system , and community organizations. 
Provides comprehensive guidance and best pract ices for enhancing literacy across 
the state.
Provides a framework for assessing gre en jobs in the private sector.
Defines green jobs as those that engage in at least o ne of five core green areas: (1) 
Generate clean, renewable, sustainable energy; (2) Re duce  pollution and waste, 
conserve natural resources, recycle; (3) Energy e fficien cy; (4) Education, training 
and support of a green workforce; and (5) Natural,  environmen tally-friendly 
production.Outlines specific goals, objectives, and actions to pursue educational goals in the state 
through 2020, including:
Increase Hawai‘i's graduation rate to 90% by 2025, which would make the state's on-time 
graduation rate one of the highest in the nation.
Ensure 55% of working age adults (25–64 years o ld) have a  two- or four-year college 
degree by the year 2025. This is supported by the Hawai‘i P-2 0 Partnerships for 
Education.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes multiple ed ucation-related goals to be achieved by 2030. 
These include ensuring access to inclusive, qu ality educat ion for all people, providing 
learner-driven educational experiences that ensure all lea rners acquire the knowledge and 
skills needed to thrive and build a sustainable  future; providing ‘¯aina-based education and 
stewardship opportunities that foster conn ectio n to land, ‘ohana, and communities; and 
creating pathways for local-global servant lead ership. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Department of Labor and Indu strial Relations developed the Hawai‘i 
Green Jobs Initiative and accompanying porta l, which provides services for job seekers 
and employers as well as access to green trainin g programs (DLIR 2021). 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    39
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike's three  core  programs include Māla ma Hāloa, Mahele Farm, and 
its foundational Building Program; each aptly equipped to provide vocational training and 
educational opportunities to Hāna youth.  Photo Credit : Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike.
Photo Right: Hāna Town and Hāna Bay of the is lan d of Maui. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i To urism Au thority .
Fro m 2013 to 2017, 48.4% of 
Haw ai‘i-born residents who 
moved out-of-state did so for 
job-related reasons (DBEDT 
2021a).  This phenomenon, 
known as “brain drain,” is 
especially prevalent in younger 
residents, and while the causes 
of outmigration are varied, 
evide nce suggests that the types 
and ava ilability of jobs outside 
of Hawai‘i are a prime factor 
(DBEDT 2021a). 
Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike (in 
wor king one learns) is the ‘Ōlelo 
No‘e au for the current da y 
educational term describing 
“expe riential learning.”  Based 
in Hāna, Maui, Ma Ka Hana 
Ka ‘Ike is also a nonprofit 
prov iding youth vocational 
training through construction 
and agriculture apprenticeship 
programs and a lo‘i restoration 
and ku‘i kalo program. Commu nity needs and the interests of apprentice s guid e the 
specific projects within each program.  Past  undertak ings 
include constructing “age-in-place” modification s to kū puna 
homes, restoring once productive agricult ural landscap es 
for community wellbeing and sustenance, and ongoing 
revitalization of cultural and place-based pr actices, including 
‘ōlelo Hawai‘i and Hāna regionalisms.  Even afte r the COVID-19 
global pandemic shut down in-person train ing, Ma Ka Hana 
Ka ‘Ike adapted, and apprentices directe d their ow n at-home  
projects (with virtual support from organization s taff ) to 
take ownership of their role in their famil ies' well-b eing. 
Furthe rmore, even though some effects of the pandem ic were 
tempered by Hāna's robust subsistence economy and t ight-
knit culture, unmet needs remained and Ma Ka Han a Ka ‘ Ike 
wor ked with partners to provide for them, incl udin g through 
foo d distribution and a Certified Nursing Assi stant trai ning 
program.  In sum, the organization's focus is  on foste ring 
service, connection to community, and self-esteem in 
apprentices through community capacity-building, wh ile giving 
them marketable skills and introduction to career path ways for 
success.  In a tourism-heavy economy, this exposur e to oth er job 
fields—and linking such jobs to community needs—em powe rs 
apprentices to direct their own futures and th at of t heir  home. 
Many apprentices remain in or return to Hāna after finishing 
their apprenticeships, with several becoming appre ntice 
trainers themselves and other leaders in  the commun ity. 
Hence , Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike demonstrates the suc cess of 
investing in community to sustain community, and t he strength 
of a community's ties to one another is key to its re siliency.
 40Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    41Sustainable Development Goal 5 
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girlsGENDER EQUALITY
UN targets to achieve gender equality and empower women include: 
•Ending all forms of discrimination and violence against womene
verywhere in both public and private spheres
•Supporting women's meaningful participation in all levels o
f
decision-making in political, economic, and public life
•Ensuring equal access for women to property owner
ship, financial
services, economic resources, and technological resources topromote empowerment of women
•
Certifying universal access to sexual and reproductive healthcareand reproductive rights as agreed to in accordance with theProgramme of Action of the International Conference onPopulation and Development and the Beijing Platform for action
Overview
Gender equality in Hawai‘i has advanced in recent years.  Hawai‘i has the second-highest 
gender earnings ratio out of all  states and ranks eighth in the United States for the number 
of women el
ected to office (AAUW 2020).  While better than the national  average, women in 
Hawai‘i make about 83 cents for every dollar earned by men and about 9% of women in 
Hawai‘i live in poverty (NWLC 2021).
Native Hawaiian women are particularly vulnerable to inequalities.  They have the highest 
rates of infant mortality in Hawai‘i, high rates of post-partum depression, high health risks 
such as obesity and cancer, and lower levels of business ownership compared with other 
demographics (OHA 2018).  Further, pay equity remains an issue: Native Hawaiian women 
earn 70 cents for every dollar a man makes and 79 cents for every dollar a Native Hawaiian 
man makes (Commission on the Status of Women 2020). 
The Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women notes in Hawai‘i's first report on 
sex trafficking survivors that sex trafficking is a problem of significant concern.  Survivors 
of sex trafficking may be disproportionately Native Hawaiian women and girls due to land 
dispossession, exposure to sexual  violence, cultural dislocation, intergenerational trauma, and 
ongoing inequities (ASU 2019).
Women's wellbeing and livelihoods in Hawai‘i were particularly at risk during the COVID-19 
global  pandemic.  Women have been disproportionately impacted during the pandemic as 
increased demands for caregiving, childc
are, and household services have fallen more on the 
shoulders of women.  Recent national  statistics report women represented 60% of workers 
that were laid off due to the pandemic.  Women in Hawai‘i are at the forefront of impacted 
industries s
uch as tourism and other service industries, which indicates the national 
unemployment trends by gender are likely to apply in Hawai‘i.  The global  pan demic has 
exacerbated these existing stressors on women.  Additionally, women have experienced 
increased incidence of domestic violence, sex trafficking, sexual  harassment, coercion by 
landlords, and interruptions to health services (Commission on the Status of Women 2020).
 42Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 5
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 
(b)(16): Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives a nd
Policies for the Economy—In General
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-24: Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-cultural 
Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal Well-Being
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil Rights 
Commission
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 378: Employment 
PracticesSets goal to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of Hawai‘i's 
population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objective to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of every 
individual and assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and other public 
services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in society. 
Prevents discrimination on the basis of race,  color, religion, age, sex, including gender 
identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or 
disability in employment, housing, public accommodations, or access to services 
receiving state financial assistance.
Prevents discriminatory practices, includin g on the basis of sex. 
A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for 
COVID-19 (2020)
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Annual 
Reports (2020)
Haumea: Transforming the Health of Native 
Hawaiian Women and Empowering Wāhine 
Well-Being (2019)Lays out a framework to re-examine the st atus quo to value unpaid work and 
address other key issues for gender equality in Hawai‘i.
Examines history and strategies for progress f or Native Hawaiian women on the 
basis of mental and emotional wellness, physical health, mother
hood, partner 
violence and incarceration, economic well-being, and leadership and civic 
engagement. Annual report on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong state civil rights laws by rebuilding 
capacity, m
aintaining, and restoring resources for state civil rights law enforcement. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    43
Outlaws disciminatory actions that deny, or attempt to deny, a person full and equal 
enjoyment of publicly available goods, resources, and accomodations.
Identifies and outlaws discriminatory practices related to real estate transactions.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 489: Discrimination in 
Public Accommodations 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 515: Discrimination in 
Real Property TransactionsSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
A March 2021 University 
of Hawai‘i study found that during the COVID-19 global pandemic, 58% of Hawai‘i families with children were food insecure, with 15% reporting that they did not have enough food in the past week.  This study also identified that food insecurity impacts were more significant for low-income families, and households in rural areas.  The study further found that 76% of families who identified as food insecure lost employment due to the COVID-19 global pandemic. Wai‘ana e Coast  Comprehensive Health Center is one of 
several organizations tackling food insecur ity in O‘ahu.   
With their “food is medicine” philosophy, Wai ‘anae Coast 
Comprehensive Health Center sought to increas e Wai‘ anae Coast 
commu nities’ access to nutritious foods for al l bud gets throug h 
initiatives such as the “Double Bucks” Mākek e Farmer s Market 
program for EBT/SNAP recipients, local produce prescriptio ns for 
patients with nutrition-related chronic dise ases, and Ke iki Food 
Pantries.  Their work fills a critical ne ed: e ven prior t o the COVID-19 
global pandemic, food insecurity was a significant  concern fo r the 
Wai ‘anae Coast, and the health center distrib uted 2 50,000 pounds of 
food in 2019.  However, due to impacts from t he COVID -19  global 
pandemic, 2,400,000 pounds of food were distribute d in  March-
Decem ber 2020 alone—nearly a tenfold increase.  Th is in creased 
commu nity need caused the Wai‘anae Coast Compreh ensive He alth 
Center to include a larger warehouse facility to pro vide additional 
commu nity assistance and provide food preservat ion an d storag e 
capabilities.  This increased capacity was m ade possible due to 
suppor t from private donors such as Honu‘apo and No 
Kid Hungry, federal CARES funding, and long-stan din g par tnerships 
with local farmers, the Hawai‘i Foodbank, and th e Hawai‘i F ood 
Service Alliance.  To further address com mu nity food  insecurity and 
resiliency challenges, Wai‘anae Coast Comprehen sive  He alth Cente r 
plans to establish an emergency food storag e facil ity on the Wai‘anae 
Coast, although these plans were paused to focus o n the d emands  
brought on by the COVID-19 global pandemic. 
Photo Left: Community food distribution to fa milie s in  need of food assistance during the 
COV ID-19 global pandemic.  Photo Credit: Wai‘ana e Co ast Com prehe nsive Health Center. 
Photo Right: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
Photo Credit: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
 44Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    45CLEAN WATER
AND SANITATION
Sustainable Developmen t Goal 6
Ensur
e availability and sustainable management of water and 
sanitation for all
This UN goal is to ensure the availability and sustainable 
management of water and sanitation for all and includes targets that 
address the following: 
•Achieving universal continuous access to saf
e drinking water and
sanitation by promoting water-use efficiency and sustainable
water withdrawals
•Integrating smart water re
source management at all levels
•Increasing water use efficiency across sectors
Overview
The State of Hawai‘i's Commission on Water Resources Management and the Department of 
Health's Clean Water Branch, Safe Drinking Water Branch, and Wastewater Branch work to 
protect surface and ground water qual ity in Hawai‘i.  Ground water is the primary source of 
Hawai‘i residents' drinking water.  The qual
ity of surface water protects and maintains 
natural e cosystems for shellfish, fish, and other wildlife, and allows for recreational activities 
near w ater sources, particularly important for the tourism industry in Hawai‘i.  Surface water 
also p rovides about 5% of Hawai‘i's drinking water supply.  In 2018, 100% of Hawai‘i's 
residents and
 visitors were served drinking water that fell below all maximum contaminant 
levels, and the c ompliance rates consistently exceed 95% (DOH 2019b). 
The Wastewater Branch is working toward the upgrade and elimination of cesspools. 
Cesspools
 release untreated domestic wastewater, nitrogen, and phosphorus, which can 
cause health i ssues, negative impacts to water quality, and harm to aquatic ecosystems such 
as coral reefs.  A s of 2019, there were approximately over 88,000 cesspools that pose a risk to 
Hawai‘i's water r esources (DOH 2019b).
In Hawai‘i, clean water concerns also relate to the exercise of traditional and customary 
Native
 Hawaiian practices.  Traditional and customary practices that depend on adequate 
flow (of both surface and ground waters) range from drinking water from natural sources, the 
gathering of
 stream species (like ‘o‘opu, ‘ōpae, and hı̄hı̄wai), practicing aquaculture in natural 
and modified pools and fishponds (loko i‘a), irrigation of taro (kalo) in flooded fields and 
other crops, and the use of water in ceremonial practices.  These depend on healthy water 
(e.g., sufficient volume, free from contaminants, and suitable temperature).
 46Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 6
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-15: Objectives and 
Policies for Facility Systems—Solid and Liquid Wastes
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-16 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—Water
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §174C-31(g)(6): Hawai‘i 
Water Plan Objectives
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342D-72: Cesspools; 
Mandatory Upgrade, Conversion, or Connection
Act 169, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016: Relating to 
Water Audits
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 174: State 
Water CodeDescribes wastewater treatment requirements for the state.
Covers sustainable water management, including wastewater/runoff reuse, water for 
agricultural use, and water conservation.
Requires that 100% of State and County facilities recycle water by 2045, with the exception 
of potable and drinking water.
Requires the conversion of all cesspools by 2050.
Requires standardized annual water audits of public water systems, and the Commission 
of Water Resource Management shall provide technical assistance.
Outlines a program of comprehensive water resources planning to address the problems of 
supply and conservation of water for purposes such as domestic uses, aquaculture uses, 
irrigation and other agricultural uses, power development, and commercial and industrial 
uses, with adequate provisions for the protection of t raditional and customary Hawaiian 
rights, and the protection of fish and wildlife, ecological balance, and scenic beauty. 
Protects reservations of water for current and foreseeable development and use of water 
by DHHL, consistent with Section 221 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act. Current 
and foreseeable uses are part of the reservation and are  required to have the full 
protections of being a Public Trust use of water. (HRS §174C-101(a)).
All Water Use Permits issued in Water Management Areas are subject to the rights of the 
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL) as provided in section 221 of the Hawaiian 
Homes Commission Act (§174C-49(a)(7)).
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Department of Health (DOH) State Health 
Improvement Plan, Healthy Hawai‘i 2020: A 
Community Health Plan. Environmental Health 
(2020)State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource 
Management (CWRM) Hawai‘i Water Plan (2021)
CWRM Water Resource Protection Plan Update 
(2019)
DOH Water Quality Plan (2019) State Water Projects Plan (2020) 
HDOA Agricultural Water Use and Development 
Plan (2019) 
The Rain Follows the Forest (2011)Hawa i‘i Water Conservation Plan (2013) Includes a goal to increase the percent of community water systems that provide drinking 
water that meets all applicable health-based drinking wat er standards to 99%.
Includes goals to increase the percentage of wastewater treatment plants in full compliance 
to 95% and increase the percentage of water reuse to 20%.
The objective of this plan is to protect and sustain ground and surface water resources, 
watersheds, and natural stream environments statewide. Such protection requires a 
comprehensive study of occurrence, sustainability, conservation, augmentation, and 
other resource management measures.
Outlines the regulations, standards, and resource management policies that define 
the quality to be maintained in ground- and surface-water resources.Provides a framework for planning and implementation  of water development programs to 
meet projected demands for State projects over a 20-year planning horizon. 
Provides a long-range management plan that assesses state  and private 
agricultural water use, supply and irrigation water systems. The plan is intended to 
be a master irrigation inventory plan which identifies system rehabilitation needs 
and prioritizes system repair. 
Identifies priority watersheds and outlines on-the-gr ound actions and projects 
required to protect and sustain Hawai‘i’s critical water sources.Identifies and implements water use and delivery efficiency measures to 
conserve the fresh water resources of the state.Consists of five discrete plans that each serve as guidance for the commission. 
DOH Water Reuse Task Force Report (2019) Identifies barriers and solutions to expanding water reuse in the state of Hawai‘i.
County Water Use and Development Plans These plans are prepared by each county to inventory all projected water demands 
within the county and ensure that the future water needs of the county are met. These 
county plans should set forth the allocation of water to land use in that county and 
maintain consistency with county zoning and land use policies. The plans serve to inform 
future land use planning and provide guidance to the Commission for decision-making 
on water allocations and water reservation requests.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    47
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
It's estimated Hawai‘i 
will need 529 million 
gallons of fresh water a 
day from its aquifers in 
2030 (Hawai‘i Community 
Foundation 2015).  Fresh 
water is a critical resource 
on an island, something 
Kānaka Maoli have long 
known and respected in 
their traditional laws, 
community organization, 
and religious beliefs.  To 
ensure the sustainability 
of our island communities, 
similar care must be taken 
to protect freshwater 
sources, particularly as water 
security is being challenged 
by a growing population, 
aging water infrastructure, 
pollution, invasive species, 
and climate change.As the largest groundwater user on O‘ahu, the Honolulu 
Board of Water Supply is aware of this kuleana to conserve 
water  supplies (Board of Water Supply 2016).  Their 2016 
Water Master Plan is one of several BWS initiatives to ensure they 
can provide water sustainably.  They are also part of the Hawai‘i 
Fresh Water Initiativ
e, a collaboration of government, academic, 
nonprofit, and private sector organizations to address water 
security.  Based on the Hawai‘i Fresh Water Initiative's findings in 
their 2016 Blueprint for Action, the Honolulu Board of Water Supply 
aligned their Water Master Plan priorities with the Hawai‘i Fresh 
Water Initiative's recommended focus areas: water conservation, 
aquifer recharge, and wastewater reuse.  Examples of this in the 
Water Master Plan include a proactiv
e leak detection team to reduce 
water loss, continued commitment to eight watershed partnerships 
(to prot
ect water from mauka to makai), and plans to expand the 
capacity of the Honouliuli Wastewater Recycling Facility to at least 
16 million gallons a day.  The Honolulu Board of Water Supply 
also utilizes a stakeholder advisory group for community feedback 
and representation.  This group's input was responsible for the 
inclusion of a dedicated water supply sustainability section in 
the plan.  Together, this comprehensive planning and community 
involvement furthers to provide safe water for O‘ahu's residents.
Photo Left: Recycled water is delivered to users through a system of pipes separat e from the drinking wate r distribution 
system.  It is safe for human contact, but it is not inten ded for drinking.  All pipes and fixtures using rec ycled water are easily 
identifiable by their distinc tive purple color.  Photo Credit: City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply. 
Photo Right: A watershed is a diverse and highly organ ized ecosystem which spe cializes in the capturing of  rai n and 
atmospheric moisture fro m the air and sky.  They are usually located in high mountains or valleys, which  then divert the 
water into rivers and st reams.  Watersheds are compose d of several layers of dense vegetation.  O‘ahu's w atershed can also 
be described as a Hawaii an rain forest, which captures an d saves large amount s of water.  
Photo Credit: City and County of Honolulu Board of Water S upply.  
 48Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    49AFFORDABLE AND 
CLEAN ENERGY
Sustainable Dev elopmen
t Goal 7
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy 
for all
The objective of this UN goal is to ensure universal access to 
“reliable, sustainable and modern energy services .” Targets to achieve 
this goal include: 
•Promoting investment in ener
gy infrastructure and clean energy
technology, with particular emphasis on least developed countries
•Improving global energy efficiency
•Increasing the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix
The energy sector is the largest source of e missions 
in Hawai‘i, accounting for 87% of t otal emissions. 
Emissions from transportation a ccounted for the 
largest share of energy sector e missions in 2016. 
Emissions from stationary energy c ombustion are the 
second largest source of energy s ector emissions, 
driven largely by emissions from e lectric power 
plants, petroleum refineries, and industry. 
While decarbonizing the electricity sector will g reatly 
reduce Hawai‘i's dependence on imported o il, 
electrification of the transportation sector 
and investments in alternative vehicle fuels are 
required for a complete shift away from fossil fuels 
for energy and transportation.  Ensuring local, 
renewable sources of energy will not only lower 
energy costs for end-users in all sectors of the 
economy, but also increase Hawai‘i's long-te rm 
energy security.
In regard to energy efficiency in buildings, Hawai‘i scored 16th in state efficiency and 7th in net 
incremental  electricity savings nationwide on the 2019 State Energy Efficiency Scorecard published by 
the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy.  The State passed minimum efficiency standards 
that help residents in Hawai‘i save money on utility bills.  However, there is still room to improve in 
developing policies for state government initiatives, transportation, low-income programs, energy 
efficiency program funding and spending, and codes and standards.
*At the date of publication, the bills from the  2021 legisla tive session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
and transmitted to the Governor for consideratio n.Overview
Ensuring affordable, reliable, clean, renewable, and sustainable energy is critical, due to Hawai‘i's 
isolated location and vulnerability to fluctuating energy prices and supply disruptions.  Hawai‘i d epends 
more on imported petroleum for its energy needs than any other state and has the highest
 average 
retail price of electricity in the nation given the state's lack of domestic oil, natural gas, or c oal 
resources.  In 2018, petroleum accounted for roughly 84% of Hawai‘i's energy consumption (see Figure 
1), compared to about 1% for the United States as a whole.  In Hawai‘i, the air transportation s ector 
accounts for the highest percentage of petroleum use, largely due to the tourism industry
 and the 
military, followed by ground transportation.  In 2021, HB 683* passed the Hawai‘i State L egislature to 
create a sustainable aviation fuel program within the Hawai‘i Technology Devel
opment C orporation to 
provide matching grants to Hawai‘i small business developing products related to s ustainable aviation 
fuel or greenhouse gas reduction from commercial aviation operations.
Petroleum  
84.4%Renewable  
Energy  
10.6%Coal  
4.9%
Natural 
Gas 
.1%
Source: HSEO (2020) Notes: Renewables includ e 
biomass, hydroelectric power, and other renewabl e 
sources such as solar and wind. Petroleum inc lude s 
jet fuel, residual fuel, distillate fuel oil, HGL, a nd 
other petr oleum sources.
Figure 1: Hawai‘i Energy Consumption by Source in 2018 
 50Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 7
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-10: Hawai‘i 
Renewable Hydrogen ProgramHawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-18 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—Energy
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §196-9: Energy Efficiency and 
Environmental Standards for State Facilities, Motor 
Vehicles, and Transportation Fuel
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-5: Zero Emissions 
Clean Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-92: Renewable 
Portfolio Standards
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-96: Energy 
Efficiency Portfolio Standards
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §302A-1510(a): 
Sustainable Schools Initiative
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §304A-119: UH Net-Zero 
Energy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71: Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions LimitsDetails objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth. 
Policies to achieve these objectives include p
romoting renewable energy development and 
accelerating the development of new energy-related industries based on wind, solar, 
ocean a nd underground resources.
Ensures the short- and long-term provision of adequate, reasonably priced, dependable 
energy services to accommodate demand.
Includes policies to achieve the objectives 
of an energy system that is secure, dependable, 
affordable, and contributes to the reduction of GHG emissions from energy supply. 
Policies include supporting the development of renewable energy sources, adopting 
energy-efficient practices, and promoting alternative fuels.   
Requires state agencies incorporate and implement energy-efficiency measures, 
and e nergy e
fficient equipment in state facilities. 
Sets a statewide target to sequester more atmo sphe ric car bon and GHGs than emitted within 
the state as quickly as practicable, but no later th an 2045 .
Achieve a 100% renewable portfolio standard (RPS) b y 2045 and a 40% RPS by 2030.
Requires the Public Utilities Commission to establish energ y-efficient portfolio standards, 
including a 30% reduction in energy use by 2030 through energy efficiency.
Achieve net-zero energy use in all public scho ol facilities by 2035.
Achieve net-zero energy use at all University of Hawai‘i campuses by 2035.
Ensure the short-and-long-term provision of adequate, r easonably priced, dependable 
energy  services to accommodate demand.
Limited statewide GHG emissions to be equal to or below 1990 levels by 
2020, excluding emissions from airplanes.
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i State Energy Office's Annual 
Report (2020) 
Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Plan (2016)
The Department of Hawaiian Home Land's 
Ho‘omaluā Energy Policy (2011)Identifies priority objectives and policies relating to clean energy, energy resilience, 
renewable energy deployment, energy efficiency, clean transportation, stakeholder 
and community education, outreach, and engagement, and data analytics. 
Supports Native Hawaiians and the broader community in working together to lead Hawai‘i's 
effort to achieve energy self-sufficiency and sustainability.Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic 
sectors, including energy. 
Sets a goal that Hawai‘i is less dependent on imported carbon-based energy with shared 
access to renewable energy benefits and is on track to meet the state's goal of 100% clean 
energy by 2045. 
Objectives include
 updating the electrical grid infrastructure,  improving awareness and 
understanding
 of energy resources,  and expanding  energy efficiency and 
sustainability practices.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVESThe Aloha+ Challenge includes a goal to achieve 70% clean energy, with 40% from 
renewable sources and 30% from efficiency, with a view towards 100% renewable energy 
by 2045. 
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a commitment to achieve 100% renewable 
electricity by 2045.
Details the program to manage the state's transition to a renewable hydrogen 
economy, including implementation plans.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the 
Economy—Potential Growth and Innovative Activities
Hawai‘i Water Energy Nexus Report 
(2017)Describes the relationship between water and energy use in Hawai‘i, and encourages the 
development and implementation of water conservation programs protecting Hawai‘i’s f resh 
water resources, while considering the implications of energy uses in the water and 
wastewater industries.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    51
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left:  Leeward Community College Net Zero Energy Campus on the island of O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: U niversity of Hawai‘i. 
Photo Right: University of Hawai‘i-Maui College Net Zero Energy Campus on the island of Maui. 
Photo
 Credit: University of Hawai‘i.In 2015, Hawai‘i became 
the first state in the 
country to make the 
commitment to achieve 
a 100% electricity 
renewable portfolio 
standard by 2045. 
Concurrently, the State of 
Hawai ‘i established a similar 
energy goal for the 
University of Hawai‘i System 
to achieve net-zero energy 
use by 2035, meaning the 
university system would 
produce as much renewable 
energy as it consumes across 
its 10 campuses (Hawai‘i 
Revised Statutes §304A-119).
Hawai‘i's own Leeward 
Community College 
became one of the first 
net-zero campuses in 
the United States.  In 
July 2020, the campus 
generated 97% of energy 
through on-site photovoltaic 
syste ms, including solar 
shade canopies, rooftop 
arrays, and distributed 
energy storage (UH News 
2020a).  By January 2021, 
the Uni versity of Hawai‘i 
Maui College also became 
one the first campuses in 
the nation to generate 100% 
of its energy from on-site 
solar photovoltaic systems 
coupled with battery storage 
(UH News 2021).The  State of Hawai‘i is committed to lead and t rans form  Hawai‘i's e nergy 
use. In addition to these energy commitm ents, the State also enacted 
energy efficiency portfolio standards, which re quire  that 4,300 gigawatt 
hours (GWh) of electricity use be reduced statewi de by 2030 (H awai‘i 
Revised Statutes §269-96). 
The Hawai‘i State Energy Office tracks and  reports o n electricity 
purchased by state agencies as part of the “L ead  By E xample” initiative. 
Between 2005 and 2019, Hawai‘i State agencies reduc ed th eir 
electricity use by  17.5%.  This was made  possible in part  through the 
government's performance contracting prog ram.  S ince the  performance 
contracting program was introduced in 1996, Stat e an d C ounty 
government agencies saved an estimated $1.1  bill ion in en ergy costs  
over the life of the contracts.  The State of  Hawai‘i's s uccess garnered 
national recognition by achieving the Race  to the Top A ward for 8 
consecutive years  between 2012 and 2019.  This nat ional accolade 
recogni zes the state with the highest per capita  inve stmen t in 
performance contracting projects, awarded by the  En ergy Se rvices 
Coalition. 
As of June 2020, all of Hawai‘i's counties have succe ssfully adopted the 
2015 International Energy Conservation Co de (IE CC) with Hawai‘i 
amendments (as amended) (HSEO 2020).  The estimat ed net energy 
saving s from this statewide adoption is 1,083,5 90 MWh  in 2029 (year 10); 
1,991,059 MWh in 2032; and 4,702,738 MWh in 2038 ( year 20). These 
estimated energy savings are greater for co mmer cial buildings, which are 
expected to save about 33%.  The energy savings  estimates will a lso rise 
as a result of additional amendments adopted  by the count ies (DBEDT 
2016).  
The  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC) under scores 
that  a “rapid and far-reaching” sustainable t ransition in land, en ergy, 
bui ldings, transport, and cities is needed to mee t global carbo n reduction 
goals to lim it global warming to 1.5°C.  Buildings account fo r almos t 40% 
of global energy-related CO2 and will play a m ajor role in a sustainable 
transformat ion (IPCC 2018).  To meet global decarbonizat ion 
goals within the buildings sector, the Internatio nal  En ergy Agency 
recommends that almost all existing buildings undergo  a single in-depth 
retrofit by 2050 and new construction meet  str ingen t efficiency 
standards.  Building energy codes covering new an d existing buildings are 
the fundamental tool to drive this change (IEA 2021).  
It is imp ortant to recognize the role of the buil t environme nt, especially 
since buildings are a key component in the fabric of cities and the 
building and construction sector provides o pportuni ties to contribute to 
achieving the UN SDGs.  Green buildings play an im portant role in the 
sustainable development of cities, communities,  and  neighb orh oods by 
reducing energy and waste consumption; conserving  water; prioritizing 
the use of safer materials; and lowering the expos ure to toxins.  Applying 
these sustainable development principles lo cally in  the design, 
construction, retrofitting, and operation i n H awai‘i's buildings will help 
transform local energy use, reduce GHG emissions,  adapt  to climate 
change, and create sustainable and thrivi ng co mmun ities.
 52Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    53DECENT WORK AND
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Sustainable Development Goal 8 
Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth,
Full and productive employment, Decent work for all
Targets related to the UN Decent Work and Economic Growth goal 
include:
•Sustaining economic growth and economic pr
oductivity through
innovation, diversification, and increased access to financial
institutions, particularly in developing countries
•Achieving “full and productiv
e” employment in safe and secure
working environments across all genders, abilities, and ages
•Eradicating forced labor in all forms, including human trafficking andchild labor
Overview
Key economic sectors for Hawai‘i include tourism, defense, creative economy, and agriculture. 
Based on gross domestic product (GDP), the top five industries in Hawai‘i (as of 2019) were real 
estate, rental, and l
easing; government; accomm odation and food services; health care and social 
assistance; and retail trade (DBEDT 2020c).
Prior to the C
OVID-19 global pandemic, Hawai‘i had the lowest unemployment rate in the n ation 
(BLS 2018).  The pandemic has exacerbated existing economic stressors, causing a d ramatic 
reduction in tourism and prompting unprecedented business closures and increased 
unemployment.  Unemployment in the state peaked in April 2020 at nearly 24%, largely due to 
stress in the hospitality and food/service industries (Associated Press 2020).  The state's l
abor 
underutilization rate—which includes the unemployed, involuntary part-time workers (i.e., 
workers employed part-time for economic reasons), and those marginal
ly attached to the labor 
force—was 19.4% in 2020 (BLS 2021).  This was dramatically higher than the state's previous 
unemployment rates: from 1990 to 2018, unemployment was highest in 2011 at 7.0% and lowest 
in 2017 at 2.4% (DBEDT 2020a).  
Some populations face unique challenges.  For example, older workers and people with health 
issues or disabilities may have difficulties finding a job or teleworking, and b
ecause these groups 
are more vulnerable to COVID-19 they may have to weigh protecting their health or preserving 
their job.  Many women have also had to take on additional unpaid labor, such as childcare. 
A sustainable Hawai‘i cannot occur without a sustainable economy.  There is a unique 
opportunity to plan for and design a post-COVID sustainable economic recovery, by d iversifying 
and strengthening Hawai‘i's economic clusters and encouraging a regenerative, and 
environmentally and culturally sustainable tourism
 industry.  The tourism industry has 
tremendous potential to make progress by reducing its consumption of land, water, energy, and 
other natural resources, as well
 as taking a leadership role in protecting our natural areas.  
 54Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 8
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-6 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-7 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy 
—AgricultureDetails provisions for achieving full employment and economic growth including 
promoting Hawai‘i as an attractive market for investment, penetrating new markets for 
Hawai‘i's p
roducts and services, foster cooperation between government and private 
sectors i
n developing employment and economic growth, and increasing 
communication w
ith the educational community to ensure a curriculum that is relevant 
to Hawai‘i's job market.
Details economic objectives relating to the agriculture section including diversifying 
agriculture and managing natural resources.
Directs economic planning toward the achievement of a visitor industry that supports 
steady growth for the state.
Promotes the development of federally supported activities in Hawai‘i. 
Encourages federal expenditures in Hawai‘i that generate long term employment. 
Details objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth.
Establishes priority guidelines for economic growth, business expansion, and 
economic d
iversification.
Promotes a diversified and dynamic economy.
Encourages balancing economic, social, community, and environmental 
priorities.
Hawai‘i Defense Economy Action Plan 
(2021)
Hawai‘i Tourism Authority Strategic Plan: 
2020-2025 (2020)
University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
(2018)
Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy (2016)Identifies strategies for expanding and diversifying the tourism market.
Establishes goals for each of the four pillars covered in the plan: natural resources, 
Hawaiian culture, community, and brand marketing. 
Establishes objectives, milestones, and measures to track the achievement of 
these goals.
Identifies opportunities to align education with job creation and economic diversification 
by leading the development of a $1 billion innovation, research, education and training 
enterprise that addresses the challenges and opportunities faced by Hawai‘i and the 
world.
Provides a blueprint for future economic developme nt across the state and all economic 
sectors including diversification of the tourism industry.
The National Security and Hospitality and Tourism cluster includes redefining Hawai‘i as 
a destination of choice, identifying new tourism markets, supporting training programs for 
local residents to expand the workforce pipeline.Recognizes the role of Hawai‘i's unique relation ship with the military and the role this 
partnership can play in economic development.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes targets for sustainable tourism (continue to develop 
policies and initiatives to promote sustainable business practices that invest in Hawai‘i's 
natural and cultural resources and support local job creation and thriving communities) 
and innovation and entrepreneurship (foster an ecosystem of innovation, research, 
education, and entrepreneurship that creates living-wage jobs and a diversified 
economy).
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-8 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Visitor Industry
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-9 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the E conomy
—Federal Expenditures
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-103 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Economic Priority Guidelines
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-108 of Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Sustainability Priority Guidelines
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    55
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Potential Growth and Innovative ActivitiesSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
10,42 4,995 tourists 
visited Hawai‘i in 2019 
(HTA 2020b).  Tourism is 
a major contributing 
sector of Hawai‘i's 
economy, but there is no 
doubt that increased 
visit or numbers can also 
intensify strain on local 
commu nities and 
ecosystems.  Sustainable 
tourism is often seen as a 
solution to address these 
effects.Hā ‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i turned to its c ommunity in 
a collaborative process to lessen the impacts of t ourism and 
reform the park's management plan.  Whil e the park is a wahi 
pana, wahi kapu, and an area of ecologica l signi ficance, it also 
struggled with overcrowding and vehicle cong estion as  one of 
Hawai‘i's busiest state parks (DLNR 2018).  T his cro wdi ng 
effectively pushed local residents out of a sto ried place in their 
own com mu nity.  In response, the Hā‘ena State Park Mas ter Plan 
engagement coordinated with the communit y and developed a 
plan to balance recreational use with natur al an d cul tural  resource 
protection and restoration.  Community stakeh olders an d cultural 
practitioners continue to have an important r ole in plan 
implementation and park management, incl udin g thro ugh a 
commu nity advisory committee and a future cu ltur al ad visory 
group.  Other outcomes included a daily visit or limit of 900 (not 
counting cultural practitioners or specia l user groups ), a parking 
reservation system for out-of-state visi tors, a new boardwalk 
through the park's lo‘i, a permeable par king l ot with integrated 
shuttle stop, and interpretive signage and staff ing. W hile it took an 
unprecedented flood in 2018 and subsequent  State eme rgency 
funding to fast-track these actions, a plan t hat normally wo uld 
have t aken years to implement was instead largel y im plemented 
within 12 months, and the Hā‘ena State Park Maste r Plan  became 
an example to mitigate tourism impacts on local comm unitie s and 
provide a higher quality experience with the natur al enviro nment.
Photo Left: Ke‘e Beach in Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State Parks.
Photo Right: Lo‘i Kalo in Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State Parks. 
 56Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    57Sustainable Development Goal 9 INDUSTRY, 
INNOVATION, AND 
INFRAS
TRUCTURE
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialization, and foster innovation
This SDG's targets include: 
•Improving the sust
ainability and equity of all existing and future
infrastructure
•Promoting sust
ainable industrialization that encourages innovation
•Increasing access to technology and supporting technologydevelopment
Overview
Hawai‘i's infrastructure (including airports, bridges, coastal areas, dams, energy systems, 
ports, roads, schools, solid waste, stormwater, wastewater, and drinking water) is aging.  
A lack of sufficient funding for infrastructure, along with population, economic, and 
development growth, has made it challenging to effectively maintain and improve 
infrastructure (ASCE, 2019).  Water main breaks, flood water damage, degradation of coastal 
highways, loss of property from coastal erosion, and beach and park closures from brown 
water advisories can all occur or happen more frequently due to deteriorating infrastructure 
(ASCE, 2019).  Climate-influenced changes (e.g., sea level rise and increased coastal erosion, 
more frequent and intense hurricanes, higher king tides, and extreme weather events causing 
heavy rainfall, storm surge, and/or wind) are further stressing these assets (ASCE, 2019). 
Hawai‘i has an opportunity to incorporate green in frastructure as an adaptation strategy. 
This includes design concepts such as installation of more vegetation and permeable surfaces, 
which can decrease urban temperatures, reduce carbon emissions, improve air quality, 
increase urban tree canopy, and capture water to replenish the water table. 
Residents who live near green infrastructure also experience positive health impacts, such as 
a lower likelihood of heart and respiratory issues,  improvements to mental health, and better 
overall quality of life.
 58Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 9
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-17 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—TransportationIncludes provisions to attain high-speed wireless communication, facilitate innovative 
businesses, encourage job creation located in Hawai‘i, ensure that new economic growth 
meets the needs of Hawai‘i's people, and provide 
opportunities for Hawai‘i residents to 
be upwardly mobile in the information industry.
Includes provisions on multimodal and mass transportation systems, including 
planning transportation systems to promote the use of alternative fuels. 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation 
Action Plan (2021)
Hawai‘i Broadband Strategic Plan (2020) 
Statewide Coastal Highway Program 
Report (2019)
State of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation 
Plan (2018)
SustainableHNL Sustainable Management 
Plan (2016)Provides information and a framework for the creation of policies and programs to 
address the challenges faced in meeting the State's broadband goals.
Provides a scientifically rigorous methodology to assess and rank the susceptibility of 
the State of Hawai‘i'
s coastal roads to erosion and structural degradation due to ocean 
hazards s uch as waves, currents, tides, and sea level rise.
Identifies action plans to achieve the six broad hazard mitigation goals. The first goal in 
the hazard mitigation plan includes “reduc[ing] the long-term vulnerability of Hawai‘i's 
people… including State-owned or operated buildings, infrastructure and critical 
facilities.”
Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic 
sectors.
Emphasizes the importance of continued innovation and infrastructure improvement 
across the economy, including providing technological innovation and entrepreneurship 
in healthcare, and improving the infrastructure of the 
tourism sector to balance the needs 
of visitors and residents.Summarizes research on how climate change will impact Hawai‘i roadways.
Outlines strategies to achieve greater network resilience in the face of long-term 
environmental risks.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The University of Hawai‘i, in partnership with the private sector and state 
government, launched Hawai‘i's Innovation Initiative to build a thriving 
innovation, research, education and training enterprise in Hawai‘i.  
Hawai‘i  Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Plan (2016) 
Provides the framework for a management plan rooted in the best practices of 
sustainability that can serve as a model in 
design and process for State-run airports.
Conducts a comprehensive analysis of how and where sustainability management 
is implemented into long-term planning at HNL.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    59
Deta ils objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Potential Growth and Innovative Activities
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10.5 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Information IndustrySUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Pho to Left: Volunteers deliver FDA-approved hand sanitizer that was locally produced and manufactured by 
Kō Hana Hawaiian Agricole Rum Distillery to fill the supply gap and provide sanitizer to Hawai‘i hospitals, 
first responders, correctional facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i.  
Photo Right: Kō Hana sugar cane field in Kunia on the island of O‘ahu.  Photo Credit: Kō Hana Distillers. 
Over $4.4 billion worth of 
imports passed through 
Hawai‘i customs in 2019 
(DBEDT 2020b).  Hawai‘i 
depends largely on goods 
shipped in from out-of-state: 
for example, 85-90% of our 
food supply is sourced 
from outside of Hawai‘i 
(Office of Planning 2012). 
However, this reliance 
leaves Hawai‘i vulnerable 
as disa sters and 
emerge ncies can disrupt 
supply chains. The COVID-19 global pandemic rapidly highlighted Hawai‘i's 
vulnerability.  In March 2020, the onset of intense demand for hand 
sanitizer created an enormous gap between the supply and demand 
of sanitizer.  In response, Kō Hana Distillers, an O‘ahu distillery 
bett
er known for its premium rum, with the assistance of the state 
of Hawai‘i, approached the federal Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) to for approval to produce high-proof alcohol as a base for 
sanitizer from distilling Hawai‘i-grown sugarcane.  
Other local 
business
es throughout Hawai‘i joined Kō Hana by supplying bottles, 
labels, boxes, ingredients, oversight, and labor—completing the 
manufacturing process and, together, creating the first locally made 
FD A-registered hand sanitizer in Hawai‘i.  Within a few weeks, the 
sanitizer was ready for distribution and the State of Hawai‘i, along 
with several nonprofits, helped coordinate the logistics to disperse 
bottles of sanitizer into the community as quickly as practical.  
First responders, hospitals, schools, kūpuna, correctional facilities, 
and homeless all received donations.  By December 2020, Kō Hana 
had locally produced over 50,000 gallons of hand sanitizer for the 
people of Hawai‘i.  The distillery also planted nearly 300 new acres 
of sugarcane, ensuring sanitizer remains a permanent addition to 
Hawai‘i's locally manufactured products. 
 60Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    61REDUCE INEQUALITIES
Sustainable Development Goal 10 
Reduce inequality within and among countries
This UN goal seeks to reduce intercountry and intracountry inequalities 
and includes targets that address: 
•Promoting appropriate legisla
tion and policies to achieve greater
equality
•Supporting the political, social, and economic inclusion of all peoples
regardless of age, gender, ability, race, ethnicity, or economic status
Overview
Inequality in Hawai‘i manifests in a number of ways, including Native Hawaiians facing greater 
hardships and being further from attaining the outcomes of the SDGs.  As mentioned under SDG 3, 
15% of Native Hawaiians do not have health insurance (compared with 4% of the population as a 
whole).  Overall, health outcomes are worse than average for Native Hawaiians, other Pacific 
Islanders, the mentally ill, and the poor.
Hawai‘i also has a long history and continuing history of ensuring equal rights for the lesbian, gay, 
bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community and passed marriage equality legislation 
in 2013.  Hawai‘i was also one of the first states to ban conversion therapy for minors, ban gay/
trans-panic as an affirmative defense, and expanded gender markers on State IDs and driver's 
licenses to include “X”  for a non-binary option.  However, LGBTQ+ residents are more likely to 
face health inequities (such as higher likelihood of chronic diseases and poor mental health) due 
to discrimination in the healthcare system  and higher rates of domestic abuse (DOH 2017).
Achievements in other SDGs may positively impact SDG 10, and reducing inequalities will  support 
the achievement of other SDGs. 
 62Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 10
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Marriage Equality Act of 2013
Act 148, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019: Relating to 
Gender IdentificationLegalized same-sex marriage in the state.
Expa nded gender options applicable to driver's licenses and state identification cards 
to include a non-binary option of “X.”
Sanctions the submissions of complaints in regards to discrimination or discriminatory 
practices.
Proh ibits discrimination in employment.
Clearly defines terms relating to potential discrimination.
Outlaws disciminatory actions that deny, or  attempt to deny, a person full and 
equal enjoyment of publicly available goods, resources, and accomodations.
Identifies and outlaws discriminatory practices related to real estate transactions.
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Reports 
(2020)Annual reports on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong State civil rights laws by 
rebuilding c apacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for State civil rights law 
enforcement.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil Rights 
Commission
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 378: Employment 
Practices
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 489: Discrimination in 
Public Accommodations 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 515: Discrimination in 
Real Property Transactions
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    63
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 
(b) (16): Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives a nd
Policies for the Economy—In General
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-24: Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-
cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal 
Well-BeingSets goal to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of Hawai‘i's 
population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objective to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of 
every individual and assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and 
other public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in 
society. SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Waimea River, Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Departmen t of Land and Natural Resources. 
Photo Right: Waimea River, Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. 
All water in Hawai‘i is h eld as 
a public trust 
(Hawai‘i Const. art. XI).  A key 
feature of Hawai‘i law, this is an 
inheritance from Kānaka Maoli 
culture and principles where 
private ownership of water was 
unthinkable and instead 
managed for the benefit of all.  
However,  
the state's plantation 
legacy and oversight of this 
public trust ethic means that 
the reality of water use is far 
more contentious and often 
culminates in notoriously 
prol
onged lawsuits (Sproat 
2009).
The 2017 Waimea W atershed 
Agreement s tands out for 
being H awai‘i's first major 
water dispute resolved 
without litigation, an 
accomplishment made e ven 
more significant by 
its disparate signatories.  
Pō‘ai 
Wai Ola (a “taroroots” 
organization representing 
community members and 
cultural
 practitioners), 
the State Agribusiness 
Development Corporation 
(ADC), the Kaua‘i Island U tility 
Cooperative (KIUC), t he Kekaha 
Agriculture A ssociation (KAA), 
and the D epartment of 
Hawaiian H ome Lands (DHHL) 
all
 signed the agreement after a 
year of formal mediation 
(Henkin 2017). At the center of the case was Waimea River: from its headwaters in 
Alaka‘i Swamp, through the “Grand C
anyon of the Pacific,” 
and into the Pacific Ocean, the river is a major water source that once 
supported an expansive lo‘i system, and yet by 2013 had become so 
low and silt-fil
led due to upstream diversions that a 15-foot swimming 
hole had disappeared (Earthjustice 2013).  Every party had its own 
design for beneficial use of the water, but at the suggestion of 
mediation by the State Commission on Water Resources, and with 
diligent effort by a communally respected figure (who eventually 
became the case's mediator), everyone found they agreed with the 
following cornerstone: above all, Waimea River should be allowed to 
flow ma uka to ma kai, and total diversion of the water must never 
happen again.  With common ground established, conversation coul
d 
begin, and this founding principle evolved into the first of the 
agreement's “Statement of Guiding Principles” (Earthjustice 2013).
The outcome was a compromise that managed to cede important wins 
to all stakeholders.  Millions of gallons of water would be restored to 
Waimea River, allowing for minimum instream flows through its 
entirety to support stream ecosystems and traditional cul
tural 
practices (Henkin 2017).  Hawaiian homesteads on DHHL land in 
Waimea, which had remained undeveloped due in part 
to lack of water, would have water specifically reserved for them for 
the first time since 1921 (DHHL 2017).  KIUC would have the 
opportunity to develop a pumped-storage hydro “battery” using water 
from Waimea River, which if advanced would diversify
 Kaua‘i's 
renewable energy portfolio and provide for infrastructure necessary to 
develop the Waimea homesteads (DHHL 2017).  Finally, ADC and KAA 
could 
continue utilizing existing ditch irrigation systems from the river 
for agriculture (Mediation Agreement 2017).  This remarkable feat of 
negotiation and cooperation is considered “historic,” and it shows that 
zero-sum outcomes aren’t inevitable: that by setting aside ultimatums, 
exhibiting empathy, 
and being willing to listen, even opposed parties 
can come to terms and a resolution found. 
 64Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    65SUSTAINABLE CITIES 
AND COMMUNITIES
Sust ainable De
velopment Goal 11
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, 
and sustainable
The core tenets of an “inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable” city or 
community as defi ned by this UN goal are as follows: 
• Affordable housing
• Access to public spaces
• Sustainable transportation systems, including public transport
• Safe cultural and natural heritage
•Protected against losses related to natural disasters
• Reduced adverse per capita environmental impact of cities (air
quality, waste management)
Overview
Residents of Hawai‘i celebrate access to public spaces, beaches, and the ocean, and prioritizing the 
vitality of cultural  and natural  heritage.  There is significant work to be done, however, to increase 
mobility and accessibility, provide increased access to affordable housing, and increase the economic 
wellbeing of households.  
In Hawai‘i, Maui and Kaua‘i islands, smart growth and transit-oriented development (TOD) principles 
are being planned to encourage quality growth and vibrant mixed-use neighborhoods in urban or 
rural centers.  In O‘ahu's urban areas, the State of Hawai‘i in partnership with the City and County of 
Honolulu is working on TOD around its rail  corridor.  This effort aims to provide more green and 
public g
athering spaces, safer streets, and less pollution and noise, all while being sensitive to the 
needs of the neighboring community.  Honolulu also recently published a guide outlining design 
principles that can help develop policy and regulations for urban areas that may be vulnerable to 
climate change hazards.  All  four counties have made commitments to use 100% renewable fuel 
sources for public ground transportation by 2045. 
Sustainable development of buildings and the use of green infrastructure help to mitigate the 
environmental impact of cities.  The State of Hawai‘i has requirements for sustainable development 
of State buildings, including LEED certification and water recycling and reclamation.  Further, the use 
of green infrastructure has many co-benefits for communities, including enhancing livability, 
improving p
hysical and mental health, sequestering CO2 from the atmosphere, improving air quality, 
sl
owing and filtering stormwater runoff, reducing flooding and soil  erosion, and reducing the urban 
heat island effect.  Honolulu lost nearly 5% of total  urban tree canopy over four years.  The City and 
County of Honolulu in collaboration with Kaulunani Urban Forestry program are working to reverse 
this trend and have produced a tree canopy assessment to use as a baseline and have pledged to 
increase the urban tree canopy to 35% by 2035.
Hawai‘i has some of the best air qual
ity in the nation.  Some air pollution issues may still occur due to 
the presence of automobiles, and the Department of Health continues to regulate and monitor air 
pollution sources.  As seen during the 2014-2015, 2016, and 2018-2019 lava eruptions from Kı̄lauea 
Volcano on Hawai‘i Island can also occasionally experience volcanic smog, or vog, a mixture of 
atmospheric aerosols and volcanic gases that can have harmful  health effects.  Whil e the State cannot 
control the formation of vog, it can reduce health risks by closing highly exposed trails when 
necessary and educating the public about proper protective actions. 
 66Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 11
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land, Air, and Water Quality
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-17 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility S
ystems—Transportation Includes policy to improve air quality to enhance the health and well-being of Hawai‘i's 
people.
Identifies objectives and policies for transportation facility systems, including the 
enhancement of the public transit system to accommodate growth and the integration of 
an efficient multi-modal transportation system.
Defines state policy objectives for advancing opportunities for affordable housing and the 
orderly d
evelopment of residential areas sensitive to community needs and other land 
uses.
Prioritizes the need and access for affordable housin g as a priority guideline for 
the Hawai‘i State Planning Act to address as an issue of statewide concern.
Established a goal of developing 22,500 affordable rental units statewide to be ready 
for occupancy by December 31, 2026, and a Special Action Team on Affordable 
Rental Housing to recommend actions to achieve the goal.Directs agencies to design buildings and facilities to meet high-level LEED standards, 
and to purchase fuel-efficient and alternative fueled vehicles whenever possible.
State of Hawai‘i Hazard Mitigation Plan 
(2018)
State of Hawai‘i Strategic Plan for 
Transit-Oriented Development (2018)
State of Hawai‘i Affordable Rental 
Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan 
(2018)Guides the implementation of transit-oriented d evelopment projects including the 
development of affordable housing.
Based on seven principles of transit-oriented development, including prioritizing p rojects 
in areas served by public transit, creating effective partnerships, maximizing t he co-
location of state facilities, developing affordable housing, engaging in equitable 
development, using sustainable building practices, and investing in critical infrastructure.
Developed a baseline of affordable rental units currently in the planning stages or under 
development, implementing actions, and measures of effectiveness to guide 
achievement o f the affordable rental housing goals.
Provides next step recommendations on ways to support affordable rental housing in the 
state.
Guides the implementation of the Hawai‘i State Plan  housing goals and objectives.
Covers four priority areas, which include expanding and preserving rental housing 
opportunities, increase homeownership, addressing barriers to residential development, 
and maintaining a housing information system.
Includes clearly defined problem statements followed by objectives, policies, 
implementing actions and accessory details such as lead organization, budget 
estimates, s tart date and measures of effectiveness.Outlin es a long-term strategy for the state to reduce risk and losses from future natural 
hazard events.
Serves as a technical reference for updates to local county hazard mitigation plans 
that integrates best available data and climate science.
Provides a robust risk assessment that expands upon the number and type of assets 
assessed in the 2013 Hazard Mitigation Plan.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes a Smart Sustainable Communities target to increase 
livability and resilience in the built environment through planning and implementation 
at the state and county levels.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-19 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural A
dvancement—Housing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-106 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines for the 
Provision of Affordable Housing
Act 127, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016: Relating to 
HousingHawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-9: Energy Efficiency and 
Environmental Standards for State Facilities, Motor 
Vehicles, and Transportation Fuel
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    67
Housing Functional Plan (2017)SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
In 2017, ground 
transportation alone accounted for about 20% of Hawai‘i's greenhouse gas emissions (DOH 2021a). Meeting the State's Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target will require significant greenhouse gas emission reduction in this area, which in turn will require a multi-pronged approach of increasing multimodal active transportation, zero emission vehicle use, and increased use of alternative fuels. Maui-based Pacific Biodiesel is currently the only 
commercial biofuel producer in Hawai‘i and the nation's 
longest operating biodiesel producer, with locations on 3 
islands.  Pacific Biodiesel produces nearly 5.5 million gallons of 
biodiesel annually fr
om waste oil, largely sourced from restaurants 
across the islands (Pacific Biodiesel 2019a).  This circular economic 
model to sustainably manage and recycle food waste converts fats, 
oils and grease (FOG) into fuels.  Through a community-based 
r
ecycling program, “Restaurants 4 Renewables” in Hawai‘i 
County, Maui County, and the City and County of Honolulu, the 
company collects and converts used cooking oil into renewable 
energy from over 900 local restaurants, hotels, and ot her food 
service operations.  Converting used cooking oil and grease trap 
waste into biodiesel diverts waste from landfills and p rovides a 
locally-produced fuel that generates approximately 74% fewer 
lifetime greenhouse gas emissions than traditional petroleum diesel 
(U.
S. DOE n.d.).  
In order to support an end-to-end, 100% local production process, 
Pacific 
Biodiesel began a 115-acre project in 2017 to grow sunflowers 
to increase its local fuel source supply—and made history by being 
the largest biofuel crop project in the 
state of Hawai‘i and the only 
biofuel farming operation in the state running on 100% renewable 
fuel (Penniman 2018).  In 2019, the Hamakua Energy power 
generation facility, which provides up to 22% of Hawai‘i Island's 
generating capacity, diversified its fuel sourcing by using biodiesel 
fuel to reduce the facility's dependence on fossil fuels and advance 
H
awai‘i Island's energy independence and energy security (PBN 
2019).
Photo Left: With a production capacity of 5.5 mil lion gal lons annually, Pacific Biodiesel's refinery  on Hawai‘i 
Island utilizes state-of-the art distillati on technology to produce the nation’s highest quality bio diesel. 
All t he fuel produced at this facility is sold wit hin the  stat e of Hawai‘i.  Photo Credit: Pacific Biodiesel .
Photo Right: Pacific Biodiesel’s business m odel focuses on  recycling with a zero-waste philosophy that 
incorporates development of value-added co- products.  In 2017 the company began farming sunflowers and 
other biofuel crops on the island of Maui–supportin g local energy diversification and resilience, and carbon 
sequestration.  Photo Credit: Pacific Biod iesel.
 68Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    69RESP ONSIBLE 
CONSUMPTION  
AND PROD UCTION
Sust
ainable Development Goal 12
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
This UN SDG seeks to improve sustainable consumption and production by:
•Promoting the adoption o
f sustainable consumption practices and
sustainable public procurement practices
•Mitigating emissions from solid w
aste by reducing waste generation and
diverting waste
•Reducing food waste
Overview
Hawai‘i is relatively sustainable when it comes to food waste, discarding 356 pounds of food per year 
per person compared to 429 pounds on the continental United States.  For the most part, food waste in 
Hawai‘i either goes through incineration or into the landfill.  There are opportunities to increase other 
methods of food recovery, such as through composting or source reduction.  These methods could also 
result in pollution or greenhouse gas reductions by reducing the amount of particles and emissions 
produced by landfills and combustion.
Each of the counties throughout the State of Hawai‘i have laws and initiatives to reduce plastics and are 
proceeding somewhat differently (DOH 2020).
There is an opportunity in the wake of the COVID-19 global pandemic to reevaluate waste m anagement 
practices, including encouraging the tourism industry to adopt sustainabl
e practices, as c onsumer 
behaviors adapt to the “new normal” that has formed from statewide stay-at-home orders.  In 2020, 
there were 47 certified sustainable eco-tourism businesses.  Further sustainability in the t ourism 
sector could position Hawai‘i as a global leader in that sector. 
 70Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 12
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-14 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §103D-1005: Encouraging the 
use of Recycled Products through the Hawai‘i Public 
Procurement CodeIncludes provisions to ensure the success of Hawai‘i's waste systems and 
encourages design to support the prudent use of resources.
Encourages purchasing preference for products containing recycled materials.
Prioritizes solid waste management practices an d processing methods in the order 
of source reduction, recycling and bioconversion, and landfilling and incineration.
Required waste diversion rates of 25% by 1995 and 50% by 2000, as well as a 
reduction of 25% of office paper generation by 1995 from a 1990 baseline.
Requires purchasing preference for recycled material products that are designed 
for durability.
Requires state and county agencies to establish office paper and other 
m
aterials recovery programs.
Set a fee for advance disposal for every glass container importer.
Set a fee of 5 cents per deposit on beverage containers manufactured within 
or imported to the state.
State of Hawai‘i Office of Solid Waste 
Management Annual Report (2021)
State of Hawai‘i Plastic Source Reduction 
Working Group Report (2020)Discusses solid waste management practices and methods for source reduction, 
recycling and bioconversion, and landfilling or incineration. 
Provides statewide recommendations and methods to improve the processes to 
reuse, reduce, recycle, and recover plastic waste.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge has six goals for solid waste reduction: 1) increased total solid 
waste d
iversion, 2) decreased total solid waste generation, 3) increased recycling, 4) 
more source reduction, 5) increased reuse, and 6) increased waste to energy.  The 
initiative's g
oal is a 70% reduction in waste by 2030. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-2: Solid Waste 
Management Priorities
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-41: Goals for 
Procurement of Recycled Products
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-45: Paper Recovery
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-82: Advance 
Disposal Fee on Imported  Glass Containers 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-102: Deposit 
Beverage Container Fee
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    71
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-3: Solid Waste 
Management Goals  SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Decaying organic waste 
emits methane, a greenhouse 
gas w ith at least twenty-
eight times more global 
warming p otential than 
carbon dioxide ( EPA  2020).  
There are al
so v aluable 
nutrients in organic w aste 
that are lost when 
it is sent to landfills and 
incinerators.  Composting 
(turning organic material 
into rich soil through 
decomposer organisms) 
sequesters CO2 and these 
valuable nutrients from 
organic waste in the soil.  
This s ustainable practice 
reduces g reenhouse gas 
emissions w hile improving 
soil health.The Windward Zero Waste School Hui is a nonprofit on O‘ahu 
working to reduce waste levels, recover these nutrients, and 
generate revenue for five Kailua-Kalāheo Complex schools 
through on
-site composting.  Siting compost production on 
school grounds eliminates waste transportation emissions and 
allows students to learn about soil science, ecology, environmental 
stewardship, and green careers.  Windward Zero Waste School Hui 
also farms earthworms on the campuses for compost needs and 
sales, and compost and worms are sold to community members 
and
 local farmers.  In total, Windward Zero Waste School Hui 
composted 47,164 pounds of waste across the five schools in 2020 
(note: this number is low due to COVID-19 global pandemic school 
cl
osures; since this organization previously composted 108,703 
pounds
 of waste in 2019), and the combined compost soil and 
worm sales generated $46,504—100% of which went directly to 
the school
s.  This is significant since over 37% of students in the 
Kailua-Kalāheo Complex were deemed economically disadvantaged 
in the 2017-2018 school year, and research has shown that 
increasing spending per student correlates with higher wages and 
lower poverty rates
 in adulthood (DOE 2019, Jackson et al. 2016). 
In addition to
 their waste reduction benefits, Windward Zero 
Waste School Hui's c ompost programs provide additional revenue 
for greater student
 investment, a welcomed resource as schools 
face b udget challenges and the amount of economically 
disadvantaged s tudents increases from the impacts of the 
COVID-19 global pandemic.
Photo Left and Right: On-site composting at Enc hanted Lake Elementary School, in Kailua, O‘ahu, one 
of the public schools participating in the Windward Zero Wast S
chool Hui, which teaches children 
zero waste and resource recovery practices.
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning.
 72Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    73CLIMATE ACTION
Sustainable Development Goal 13
T
ake urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
This goal includes targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase 
resilience, and adapt to the impacts of climate change
Overview
Efforts to understand, mitigate, and adapt to the impacts of climate change are critical due to 
Hawai‘i’s isolated geography, unique cultural  heritage, and heavy reliance on the tourism industry. 
Hawai‘i anticipates an estimated 3.2 feet of sea level rise by 2100.  Climate change impacts, such as 
sea level rise and more frequent and intense extreme weather events (hurricanes, flood, droughts), 
pose an increasing threat to infrastructure and communities.  Sea level rise is especially hazardous as 
it will  affect many critical transportation systems, such as regional highways, airports, and harbors. 
Hawai‘i h
as seen an increase in extreme rainfall events from 1940 to present in addition to an 
increase in more consecutive dry days (USGCRP 2018).  
The Fourth National Climate Assessment projects the impacts of rising sea levels and other climate 
change impacts will result in the loss of 550 cultural  sites in Hawai‘i, more than 6,500 structures 
becoming unusable, and roughly 20,000 displaced residents.  According to the State of Hawai‘i’s Sea 
Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation report, statewide losse
s due to climate change are projected 
to total  more than $19 billion (USGCRP 2018).
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71 enacted a statewide target to reduce GHG emissions to 1990 
levels by 2020.  Total GHG emissions in Hawai‘i in 2017 were 17.87 million metric tons of carbon 
dioxide e
quivalent (MMT CO 2e), roughly 8% lower than 1990 levels.  Statewide projections indicated 
Hawai‘i was on track to meet the GHG emissions target by 2020. 
Figure 2: Hawai‘i GHG Emissions by Sector for 1990, 2007, 2010, and 2015-2017. Source: Hawai’i S tate DOH 
(2021)
Figure 2 shows emission trends by sector for each year that Hawai‘i has conducted a GHG inventory.  
The energy sector is the largest source of emissions in Hawai‘i, accounting for 86% of total emissions. 
Emissions from transportation accounted for the largest share of energy sector emissions in 2017, 
followed by stationary energy combustion emissions largely driven by emissions from electric power 
plants, petroleum refineries, and industry.  Agriculture, forestry, and other land use (AFOLU), waste, 
and industrial processes and product use (IPPU) sectors accounted for 6, 4, and 4% of total 
emissions, r espectively in 2017 (DOH 2021a).  
AFOLU is the only sector that overall, sequesters carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.  Healthy native 
forests and sustainable agricul
tural practices are essential to stabilizing soil organic carbon which 
accounts for over half of the carbon dioxide stored in Hawai‘i's terrestrial ecosystems (Selmants et al. 
2017).  
The State of Hawai‘i is committed to reducing GHG emissions, adapting to climate change, and 
incorporating climate change considerations into decision-making.  In April 2021, the State of Hawai‘i 
adopted Senate Concurrent Resolution 44, and became the first state in the Unit
ed States to declare a 
climate emergency.  74Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 13
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised St atutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: 
Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability PlanIncludes provisions to reduce the threat to life and property from erosion, flooding, 
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other natural or man-induced 
hazards and disasters.
Specifies that the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan will serve as the State's climate and 
sustainability strategic action plan.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to update the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan every 10 years.
Promotes sector resilience by encouraging the  identification of climate change threats, the 
assessment of potential consequences, and the evaluation of adaptation.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Plannin g to provide coastal and ocean policy 
management, and sea level rise adaptation coordination.  
Carries out the lead agency responsibilities for the Hawai‘i Coastal Zone Management 
program, as specified in Chapter 205A.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to develop, monitor, and evaluate strategic 
climate adaptation plans and actionable policy recommendations for the State and 
counties a ddressing expected statewide climate change impacts and provide planning and 
policy
 guidance and assistance to state and county agencies regard ing climate change 
and
 sustainability.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to develop, organize, and promote policies 
and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and climate 
policies and goals.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Climate Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, which is 
administratively attached to the Department of Land and Natural Resources. Coordination 
of this advisory commission is headed jointly by two co-chairs: the Chairperson of the 
Board of Land and Natural Resources and the Director of the State of Hawai‘i's Office of 
Planning, or their designees.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Greenhouse Gas Sequestration Task Force, which is 
administratively attached to the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning, charged with a number 
of statutory objectives, which among other responsibilities, include: identifying the potential 
to improve soil health, and increasing greenhouse gas sequestration in the agricultural, 
aquacultural, urban, and natural environments.
Sets a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and GHGs than emitted 
within the state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045.
Limited statewide GHG emissions to be equal to or below 1990 levels by 2020, excluding 
emissions from airplanes.
Established source category-specific GHG limits.
Requires conducting statewide GHG inventories, verification, and reporting to track 
progress.
Directed the State of Hawai‘i to expand strategies and mechanisms to reduce statewide 
greenhouse gas emissions through reduction of energy use, adoption of renewable energy,  
and control of air pollution among all agencies, departments, industries, and sectors,  
including transportation.
Aligns the State of Hawai‘i's commitment to combat climate change with the principles  and 
goals set forth by the United Nations‘ Paris Agreement and Hawai‘i's share of 
the obligations within the expectations apportioned to the United States in the Paris 
Agreement.
Resolves that the state mobilize climate mitigation  and adaptation efforts to address  
climate change at the necessary scale and speed. 
Advocates for the facilitation of investments in beneficial projects and infrastructure that 
promote zero emissions  Affirms that the State commits to statewide action that is rooted in 
equity, self-determination, culture, tradition, and the belief that people locally and around 
the world have the right to clean, healthy, and adequate air, water, land, food, education, 
and shelter.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning while  coordinating with other State 
agencies to identify existing and planned fa cilities that are vulnerable to the impact of sea 
level rise, flooding impacts, and natural hazards and assess options to mitigate those 
impa cts, and add sustainable development and climate cha nge adaptation as objectives 
for facility systems. 
Hawai‘i Revised St atutes §226-109 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Cl imate Change Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2 (b) (6): Office of 
Planning; Responsibilities ; Coastal and Ocean 
Policy Managemen
t and Sea Level Rise Adaptation 
Coordination
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225M-2 (b) (9): Office o f 
Planning; Responsibilities; Climate Adaptation and 
Sustainability P lanning and Coor dination
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225M-8:  Statewide 
Sustainability B ranch
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225P-3: Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Mitigatio n and Adaptation Commission
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225P-4: Greenhouse Gas 
Sequestration Ta sk Fo rce
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-5: Z ero Emissions  
Clean Economy Target
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71:  Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Limit
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-72:  Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Limit, Rules
Act 32, Session L aws of Hawai‘i 2017
Senate Concurren t Resolution 44 (2021): Declaring a  
Climate Emergency and Requesting Statewide 
Collaboration Toward an Immediate Just Transition and 
Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate
HB 243  (2021): Relating to Sea Level Rise Adaptation*
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature and transmitted to the 
Governor for consideration. 75Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 13
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action 
Plan (2021)
Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to 
Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper 
(2021)
Ocean Resources Management Plan (2020)
Guidance for Addressing Sea Level Rise in 
Community Planning in Hawai‘i (2020)
State of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation Plan 
(2018)Feasibility and Implications of Establishing a 
Carbon Offset Program for the State of 
Hawai‘i  (2019)
State of Hawai‘i Statewide Coastal Highway 
Program Report (2019)
Feasibility and Implications of Managed 
Retreat Strategies for Vulnerable Coastal 
Areas in Hawai‘i (2019)Summarizes research on how climate change will imp act 
Hawa i‘i's roadways.
Outlines strategies to achieve greater net work resilien ce in the 
face of long-term environmental risks.
Highlights opportunities for Hawai‘i to implement nature-based 
strategies to adapt to and mitigate climate change.
Identifies 18 strategic actions across three focus area goals 
(development and coastal hazards, land-based pollution, and 
marine resources) t
o advance the State‘s management of 
ocean resources.
Provides additional guidance following on the 2017 Sea Level 
Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report.
Assists county planners to build upon and improve existing 
efforts to address sea level rise for four key topics: 
1)vulnerability assessment, 2) land use and development
alternatives, 3) plan and policy alignment, and 4) adaptive
management.
Makes findings regarding retreat programs and their 
relative significance to Hawai‘i and a specific multi‐ prong 
recommendation regarding the feasibility of retreat in Hawai‘i.Evaluates the feasibility for the Hawai‘i State Government to 
foster additional greenhouse gas reductions through carbon 
offset credits.
Develops a scientifically rigorous methodology to assess and 
rank the susceptibility of the state's coastal roads to erosion 
and structural degradation due to ocean hazards such as 
waves, currents, tides and sea level rise
.
Presents a new index methodology that considers the principal 
factors that determine coastal erosion and road degradation. 
The method is based on determination of the index CRESI 
(Coastal Road Erosion Susceptibility Index), which is 
evaluated a t discrete locations along coastal roads in relatively 
close p roximity to the ocean, and segments the coastal roads 
to have l ow, medium, and high susceptibility to structural 
degradation. 
Provides a five-year strategy to reduce risk and losses 
from future natural hazard events. Promotes resiliency and 
sustainability, aids in consistent evaluation, and provides 
a 
means to reduce the costs associated with disaster response 
and recovery, includes a mitigation action plan with information 
such as estimated costs, potential funding sources, anticipa
ted 
timelines, and the expected benefits and avoided losses of 
each hazard mitigation action identified.
Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation 
Report (2017)Provides a statewide assessment of Hawai‘i’s vulnerability to 
sea level rise and nine recommendations to reduce exposure 
to its impacts.
 76Photo Right: Waikı̄kı̄, O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority.Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    77SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left and Right: Hanalei Hill landslide and landslide clearing as a result of heavy rain and floods 
on Kaua‘i Island in March 2021. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation.
Hawai‘i is predicted to 
experience a hurricane every  
16 years that is powerful enough to cause a FEMA disaster declaration.  In fact, climate change is expected to increase this occurrence by causing stronger and more frequent hurricanes, and climate change will also exacerbate vulnerability to other natural disasters such as flooding, wildfires, and tsunamis.Isol ated communities are especially vulnerab le t o natu ral  
disaste rs if utilities become cut off and vital roads b ecome 
impa ssable, giving no access for emergency servi ces to 
reach communities in the crucial hours and days a fter a 
disaster.  In April 2018, this occurred when  floods and lands lides 
from record-breaking rainfall in Kaua‘i resulte d in  severe  damage to 
roads, schools, homes, and other structures.  The comm unitie s of 
Hā‘ena, Wainiha, and Hanalei on Kaua‘i's Nort h Shore  were among 
those most impacted because the only highway b uilt to co nnect 
these communities to the rest of the island was cl osed  into 2019 
due to critical damage from the floods.  However,  to prevent similar 
disaster catastrophes in the future, the County  of Kaua‘ i is leading a 
collaborative initiative for a Wainiha Community Resiliency Center, 
which will service these North Shore communities  befor e, during 
and after future disasters.  Funded by app ropriat ions for disaster 
relie f from Act 35, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019, t he Wai niha 
Community Resiliency Center will include a comm erc ial kitchen, 
supplies staging and storage space, and satel lites o ffices for first 
responders and State Parks officials, as we ll as provi de a community 
gathering space and an improved shelter against hur ricanes 
compared to older buildings.  
 78Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    79LIFE BELOW WATER
Sust
ainable Development Goal 14
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources 
for sustainable development
This goal aims to balance the mindful use of marine and coastal 
resources and conservation. Targets to achieve this goal include: •
Preven
ting and reducing land-based debris and nutrient pollution
that causes harm to marine and coastal environments
•Regulating and managing the use of marine and coastal resources
Overview
Climate changes, including rising air temperatures, changing rainfall patterns, drought, flooding, and 
saltwater contamination, are threatening marine ecosystems .  The changing climate also impacts 
local biodiversity of native species.  Rising ocean temperatures and acidification threaten the 
sustainability of fisheries and coral reefs.  Coral  reefs are a key draw for Hawai‘i's tourism industry, 
adding over $350 million to the local economy each year.  However, coral bleaching has already begun 
(DLNR 2017).  For example, elevated ocean temperatures led to extreme coral bleaching in 2014–
2015, with a nearly 50% decline in coral cover in west Hawai‘i and a 20–40% decline in Maui.  Mass 
coral beaching events are anticipated to continue i f no climate action is taken (Office of Planning 
2020).  
Currently, Hawai‘i's residents are concerned about the human impact on nearshore areas (Office of 
Planning 2020).  There is also the concern for the health of aquatic ecosystems and the migration of 
native fish species as ocean temperatures increase due  to climate change.  Previous fish mortaility 
events in O‘ahu have been connected to slackened trade winds and elevated surface water 
temperatures.  As an island community, many Hawai‘i r esidents enjoy a seafood diet and rely upon 
subsistence living, including fishing; however, decl ines in tuna and billfish populations are projected 
to impact the fishery industry with 2–5% losses per decade (USGCRP 2018).  
There is the need to balance agricultural productivity on the islands, which boost Hawai‘i's food 
security, self-sufficiency and access to fresh food, wi th the pollution to nearshore waters caused in 
part by intensive agricultural practices.  Runoff from residential areas is also a contributing source of 
water pollution.  There is a nascent recognition of  the need to protect groundwater-dependent 
ecosystems.  
One of the three main focus areas of the 2020 Ocean Resources Management Plan is land-based 
pollution, which highlights polluted stormwater runoff as a pervasive and widespread issue within 
Hawai‘i's watersheds (Office of Planning 2020).
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge has  a target to reverse th e trend of natural 
resource loss by increa sing freshwater securit y, watershed 
protection, community-based marine management, invasive 
species prevention and native species restoration.  The 
challenge also includes the goal to significantly increase the 
percentage of Hawai‘i's marine waters under active 
management by 2030. The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes 
a goal to protect 30% of priority watersheds and effectively 
manage 30% of nearshore ocean waters by 2030.
 80Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 14
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Office of Planning's Ocean Resources 
Management Plan (2020)Hawai‘i Nonpoint Source Management 
Plan: 2021-2025 (2021)
Holomua: Marine 30x30 (2020)
Hawai‘i Coral Reef Strategy 2030 (2020)
Water Resource Protection Plan (2019)
Coral Bleaching Recovery Plan (2017)Provides a vision of a healthy nearshore ecosystem with abundant resources that 
allow t he people of Hawai‘i to enjoy coastal waters, support local livelihoods, and feed 
their f
amilies.
Includes four key pillars to effectively manage Hawai‘i's nearshore waters with at least 
30% established as marine management areas by 2030: place-based planning, pono 
practices, monitoring, and protection and restoration.
Outlines recommendations for projects that address cora l reef ecosystem planning and 
summarizes the impact of previous projects on Hawai‘i 's reef resiliency.
Component of the Hawai‘i Water Plan that seeks to protect and sustain statewide g round 
and surface water resources, watersheds, and natural stream environments.
Recognizes that groundwater dependent ecosystems ( GDEs) support a variety of 
valuable
 ecosystem services, such as flood control, water supply, water purification, 
recreational o pportunities, biodiversity, and traditional and customary rights. However, the 
current
 approach for managing ground water in Hawai‘i does not explicitly account for the 
ground w ater discharge needs of GDEs.
Promotes the recovery of coral reefs following the 2014-2015 global coral bleaching  
event by identifying which management interventions are the most likely to promote  
recovery.Identifies 18 strategic actions across three focus area goals (development and coastal 
hazards, land-based pollution, and marine resources) to advance the state's 
management of ocean resources.Establishes goals, objectives, strategies, and milestones to reduce and prevent 
nonpoint source pollution and improve water quality, guiding the state's nonpoint source 
pollution management efforts.
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-11 of the Hawai‘i St ate 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land-Based, Shoreline, and Marine 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 342D: Wate r 
PollutionDescr ibes objectives regarding the sustainable use of marine resources and the 
protection of fragile environmental resources, including species and habitat conservation 
and do-no-harm principles.
Defines the rules and regulations for water pollution management in Hawai‘i under the 
purview of the Department of Health.
Outlin es the rules and regulations for the management of Hawai‘i's coastal zone, 
including the  specification of special management areas.
Outlin es the policies relating to how aquatic resources can be used in Hawai‘i, including 
fishing rights and how to prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species.
Specifies further regulations relating to fishing in the waters of Hawai‘i, including 
licensing and provisions for subsistence fishing. 
Establishes the West Hawai‘i Regional Fishery Management Area in order to improve 
the m anagement o f c
onsumptive and non-consumptive uses of aquatic resources in 
that region.
Outlin es the State regulations surrounding commercial fishing, including reporting 
requirements, licensing, approved and prohibited techniques, and the purchase of 
fishing  vessels. 
Establishes marine life conservation districts and defines what activities are permitted 
within t hose d istricts. 
Specifies how various species will be protected, and how the state will assist in the 
recovery of species‘ population, health, or ecosystems.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205A: Coastal Zone 
Management
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 187A: Aquatic 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 188: Fishing Rights 
and Regulations
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 188F: We st Hawai‘i 
Regional Fishery Management Area 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 189: Commercial 
Fishing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 190: Marin e Life 
Conservation Program
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195D: Conserva tion of 
Aquatic Life, Wildlife, and Land Plants
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    81
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Friends of Hanauma Bay and Ocean Defe nders Alliance Hawai‘i partnered to launch a 
citizen science study during the COVID-19 pandemic saf ety closure on Hanauma Bay’s Coral Colony 
Temp oral Texture Study to determine baseline he alth o f coral within Hanauma Bay’s inner reef. 
Photo Credit: Friends of Hanauma Bay. 
Photo Right: Hanauma Bay on the island of O‘ ahu re ope ned to the public after being closed for 9 mon ths 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The COVID-19  clos ure re juven ated the bay’s marine environment 
providing significant ecosystem restoratio n, the  ret urn an d growth of wildlife and endangered specie s, 
and a 64% improvement in water clarity.  Photo Cre dit: Frie nds of Han auma Bay. 
Coral, or ko‘a, is the first 
species named in the 
Kumulipo.  This is one 
of the many ways Kānaka 
Ma oli underpin the close 
relationship between life on 
land and sea.  Coral's cultural 
signi ficance, along with its 
ecological and economic 
importan ce, is why the 
declining health of Hawai‘i's 
corals in the face of human 
pressures and climate change 
evokes great concern.As a popular destination for coral reefs, Hanauma Bay on  O‘ahu is no 
different in facing this dual threat.  The bay's coral colonies face 
stress from multiple bleaching events, and with nearly 845,000 
visitors in 2019 alone, the coral colonies also show re duced growth in 
more disturbed areas (Star Advertiser 2020, Severino et al . 2020). 
The COVID-19 global pandemic further demonstrated the e ffects of 
visitor traffic: after Hanauma Bay was closed for safety purposes in 
March 2020, water clarity improved by 64% and as much as  
19.5 feet, larger fish were spotted in the reef, and there was a 
reported increase in endangered Hawaiian monk seal activity (Star 
Advertiser 2020, Serota 2020). 
 The bay's closure also allowed the 
nonprofit Friends of Hanauma Bay, in partnership with DLNR-
DAR's Coral Restoration Nursery, to begin coral restorat ion to repair 
damage to the reef (Friends of Hanauma Bay 2021).  When H anauma 
Bay reopened in December 2020, the City and County of H onolulu 
implemented COVID-19 capacity limits, shortened operation hours, 
increased non-resident visitor fees, and closures two d ays a week, 
which allowed for a reopening while continuing reduced pre ssure on 
the coral reef (Star Advertiser 2020).  Although challe nges remain, 
as the bay reopens further, an unmatched opportunity will  be 
provided to monitor visitor impacts from a new baseline and 
determine the best mechanisms to steward a more thriving 
Hanauma Bay.
 82Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    83LIFE ON LAND
Sust ainable De
velopment Goal 15
Protect, restore, and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and 
halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
The objective of “life on land” is to maintain continued thriving 
ecosystems on land and end all threats to land degradation and 
biodiversity loss. Targets to achieve this goal address: 
•Protecting biodiver
sity by reducing degradation of natural habitats,
ending the poaching and trafficking of endangered species, and
introducing measures to reduce the impact of invasive species
•Implementing sustainable management practices that enddeforestation and combat desertification
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge targets include protecting 30% of w atershed 
forests by 2030 and increasing the percentage of t hreatened and 
endangered native species that are managed i n Hawai‘i by 2030.
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a commitment to p rotect 
30% of priority watersheds by 2030, and to implement t he State's 
Interagency Biosecurity Plan by 2027.
Overview
As one of the most geographically isolated regions in the world, Hawai‘i is home to rich and diverse 
ecosystems and species.  However, Hawai‘i also faces many threats to its biodiversity: as of 2015, the 
state's endangered and threatened species accounted for 28% of the nation's total  (DLNR 2015). 
Existing and emerging threats to these native ecosystems and species include invasive species and 
cl
imate change impacts.  Invasive species can aggressively overtake indigenous species and knock 
Hawai‘i's delicate ecosystems out of balance.  This is particularly a threat to Hawai‘i due to the state's 
geographic isolation.  The State's Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission has begun 
this endeavor to identify climate change impacts to native ecosystem through their working paper, 
“Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i”  (Climate Change Mitigation 
and Adaptation Commission 2021).
The Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture, Hawai‘i Invasive Species Council, Hawai‘i Department of 
Land and Natural Resources, H
awai‘i Department of Transportation, Hawai‘i Department of Health, 
the Coordinating Group on Alien Pest Species, and many partnerships with landowners, farmers, and 
environmental and community organizations coordinate to support Hawai‘i's biosecurity (Hawai‘i 
Biosecurity Plan 2016).   
Traditional practices once created a successful  relationship between natural resources and culture, 
resulting in a successful, sustainable community.  Integrating Native Hawaiian cultural  practices and 
traditional ecological  knowledge into natural  
resource management is critical  to protecting and 
maintaining the state's biodiversity (Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance 2010).
 84STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan (2017)
Hawai‘i Forest Action Plan 2016 (2016)
Hawai‘i State Wildlife Action Plan (2015)
Hawai‘i Statewide Assessment of Forest  
Conditions and Trends (2010)
Strategic Plan for Hawai‘i's Natural Area 
Reserves System (2008)Identifies nine priority areas for Hawai‘i ’s forests that include:  water quality  and quantity;  
forest health, invasive species, insects and disease;  wildfire; urban and  community 
forestry; climate change and sea level rise;  conservation of native biodiversity; h unting,  
nature-based recreation, and tourism; forest products and carbon sequestration; a nd U.S. 
tropical island state and territorial issues.
This plan comprehensively reviews the status of the full range of the state’s native  
terrestrial and aquatic species, over 10,000 of which are  found nowhere else on Earth, 
and presents strategies for long-term conservation of species and habitats.
Includes provisions prioritizing the rapid response to invasive species.
Recommends restoring and conserving the native forest species and ecosystems by 
using native species.  
Identifies and defines the Natural Area Reserves System's role in conservation of  
biological e cosystems.Serves as a ten year plan providing a coordinated path forward to increase support for 
local a griculture, protection for the environment, and safeguards for the health and lifestyle  
of Hawai‘i's people. The plan addresses Hawai‘i's most critical biosecurity gaps and 
identifies m ore than 100 policy, processes, and infrastructure actions to take by 2027.
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-11 of the Hawai‘i St ate 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land-Based, Shoreline and Marine 
ResourcesRequires the protection of Hawai‘i's unique and fragile environmental resources.
Requires the State to exercise a conservation ethic, balance activities with ecological 
systems, consider physical attributes of areas when designing activities or facilities, 
encourage beneficial and multiple use of natural resources without causing irreparable 
environmental damage, consider multiple uses in watershed areas, provided such uses 
do not detrimentally affect water quality and recharge
 functions, and encourage protection 
of endangered species.
Defines the State's objectives and policies for the enhancement and preservation of 
Hawai‘i's physical environment, including scenic and natural beauty, and historic 
resources.
Promotes the preservation of views and vistas to enhance the visual and aesthetic 
enjoyment of mountains, ocean, scenic landscapes, and other natural features.
Requires protection of areas, structures, and elements that are an integral and functional 
part of Hawai‘i‘s ethnic and cultural heritage.
Descr ibes the State's objectives and policies for improving air and surface water quality, 
promoting the proper management of natural resources, and strengthening resilience to 
the effects of disasters.
Creates soil and water conservation district within the state and defines what actions the 
State will take to conserve those areas.
Sets regulations related to wildlife management, including conservation, hunting, and the 
protection of wild animals. 
Arranges a fund for the State park system an d defines policies related to those parks 
and their use.
Establishes the Invasive Species Council to study invasive species and prevent their 
spread through intervention.
Creates a Natural Area Reserves program, identifies certain areas to be part of the 
program, and defines what will be done within the areas to protect them from 
degradation. 
Defines the actions for the State of Hawai‘i to protect plants and animals from threats and 
environmental degradation. 
Establishes the Forest Stewardship Program and Forest Stewa rdship fund, in order to 
promote 
the long-term management of privately- and publicly-owned forest land within the 
state. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-12 of the Hawai‘i Sta te 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Scenic, Natural Beauty, and Historic 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i Sta te 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land, Air, and Water Quality
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 180: Soil and 
Water Conservation Districts
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 183D: Wildlife
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 184: State Parks and 
Recreation Areas
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 194: Invasive 
Species Council
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195: Natura l Area 
Reserves System
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195D: Conserva tion of 
Aquatic Life, Wildlife, and Land Plants
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195F: Forest 
StewardshipHawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 15
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    85
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Volunteers participating in the Wai‘anae  Mountains Watershed Partnership outplanting 
1,024 plants in the Wai‘anae Kai Forest Reserve  on O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: Yumi Miyata, Wai‘anae Mountai ns Wate rshed Partnership. 
Photo Right:  ‘Ōhi‘a Lehua growing in uplands of th e K o‘olau Mountains Watershed on O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: Ko‘olau Mountains Watershed Par tners hip. 
Hahai no ka ua i ka 
ululā‘au: Rains always 
follow the forest. 
Histor ically, Kānaka Maoli 
were acutely aware of the 
importance of water and 
were experts in how to 
manage water, as reflected 
in this ‘Ōlelo No‘eau 
(Hawaiian proverb).  
For ests are crucial to 
groundwater recharge by 
preventing rainfall from 
becomin g runoff into the 
ocean.Because of their role in water catchment, forests are a  key 
part of upland watershed ecology.  Watersh eds are  “an  area 
of land, such as a mountain or valley, which co llects  rainwater 
into a common outlet,” and are approximately equiv alent t o the 
trad itional land divisions called ahupua‘a (Ha wai‘ i Association of 
Watershed Partnerships 2021c).  In addition to recharging 
groundwater, the forests in watersheds provide se rvices like 
flood con trol, recreational spaces, carbon dioxid e ab sorption,  air 
and water filtration, erosion control, and h abitat for  cult urally 
and ecologically significant species (Hawai‘i Asso ciat ion of 
Watershed Partnerships 2021d).  In 2003, the Haw ai‘i A ssociation 
of Watershed Partnerships was created betw een existing 
watershed partnerships and the State of Hawai‘i to  coordinate 
watershed protection efforts (HAWP 2021b).  Th e Hawai‘i 
Association of Watershed Partnerships currentl y consis ts of 10 
watershed partnerships comprising nearly 7 5 volun tary public 
and private partners and collectively covers over 2 .2 mil lion 
acres of land (Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partne rships 
2021a).  Watershed partners include landowners compr ising 
among  others, Kamehameha Schools, Department  of Hawaiian 
Hom e Lands, and supportive partners such as T he Nature 
Conservancy, Bishop Museum, and Kupu, which c ontribute 
expertise, capacity, and/or research to the m ission o f protecting 
Haw ai‘i's watersheds (LHWRP 2018, MKWA 2021,  KMW P 2021) . 
Being  joined together under Hawai‘i Associat ion of Watershed 
Partnersh ips allows for greater sharing of resource s, knowled ge, 
and collective advocacy power to amplify the  effect iveness of 
the se individual organizations and watershe d part nerships.  Th is 
scale of collaboration and multi-sector partne rshi p can serve  as an 
example to work together in a kāko u effo rt as  Hawai‘i prepares to 
face future complex challenges from a ch angi ng cl imate.
 86Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    87Sustainable Development Goal 16 PEACE, JUSTICE,  
AND STRONG  
INSTITUTIONS
This goal seeks to create and sustain inclusive societies with 
fair and just institutions at all levels. Targets relating to this goal include:•
Ending violence, abuse
, and mistreatment of people
everywhere by promoting the rule of law at national andinternational levels
•
Promoting equality thr
ough inclusive and representative
decision making
•Establishing accountable and transparent institutions
Overview
Hawai‘i has the highest percentage of mixed-rac e people in the United States, making up 
about 25% of Hawai‘i's population.  H
owever, prejudice and injustice against minorities and 
immigrant communities such as African Americans and Micronesians, among others, still exists 
(V
elasquez-Manoff 2019).  As discussed under SDG 3, low-income households, Native 
Hawaiians, a nd Micronesians face unequal health impacts and health insurance coverage 
compared to h igher income and other racial and ethnic groups in the state.  As previously 
discussed under SDG 4 educational disparities were also highlighted between between racial 
and socioeconomic groups.  Similarly, SDG 5 d iscussed the gender-based inequal ities that 
Native Hawaiian women face.  Finally, as discussed u nder SDG 10, there are opportunities for 
increasing equality in the state.  Thus, achievements in the o ther SDGs would likely positivel y 
impact SDG 16.
The COVID-19 global pandemic and movements demanding racial justice and equality in 2020 
have reinvigorated calls for justice.  The University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa's Truth, Racial Healing, 
and Transformation (TRHT) Campus Center team was recognized on a national platform to 
highlight its work to tackle historical and contemporary effects of racism in September 2020 
(UH News 2020b). Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to justice for all, and build effective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all levels
 88Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 16
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives 
and Policies for the Economy
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-24 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-
Cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and 
Personal Well-Being
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-25 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—Culture
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 92: Public 
Proceedings and RecordsHawa i‘i Revised Statutes §8-16: Peace Day
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil 
Rights CommissionSets goals to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of 
Hawai‘i's population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objectives to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of 
every i ndividual a
nd assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and other 
public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for  individual participation in society. 
Includes provisions for the enhancement of cultural identities, traditions, values, and arts 
of Hawai‘i's people.
Supports sharing the knowledge and understand
ing of Hawai‘i's history and heritage.
Supports activities that promote cultural values, encouraging increased awareness of 
the impact of actions on Hawaiian culture, and promoting strong relationships between 
Hawai‘i's people and visitors.
The formation and conduct of public policy—th e discussions, deliberations, decisions, 
and action of governmental agencies—shall be conducted as openly as possible.Recognizes September 21 of every year as “Peace Day” in order to promote peace 
programs, improve international relations, and increase educational awareness of 
peace.
Prevents discrimination on the basis of race,  color, religion, age, sex, including gender 
identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or 
disability in employment, housing, public accommodations, or access to services 
receiving state financial assistance.
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Reports 
(2020)
University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
2015-2021 (2018)Annual reports on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong state civil rights laws by rebuilding 
capacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for state civil rights law enforcement. 
Includes provisions to prepare more Native Hawaiians to assume leadership roles within 
the University of Hawai‘i and the community.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    89
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left:  Keawanui fishpond of the island of Moloka‘i.  Photo Credit: ‘Āina Momona.   
Photo Right:  Keawanui fishpond of the island of Moloka‘i.  Photo Credit: Mickey Pauole. Moloka‘i is estimated to 
have supported a population 
of 10,500 people prior to 
European contact (SFCA 
2000). 
 Today the island 
is home to approximately 
6,275 people, but the 
systems that once supported 
such a population size 
have been degraded by the 
impacts of climate change, 
land development, and 
colonization (U.S. Census 
Bureau 2019 a,b,c).‘Āina Momona is a Native Hawaiian nonprofit on Moloka‘i 
dedicated to rebuilding this community resilience throug h 
ancestral solutions and achieving environmental health and 
sustainability through four pillars: land, water, food, and 
restorative social justice.  They are based at the Keawan ui 
Fishpond and Cultural Learning Site where they manage the  
55-acre loko i‘a and 8 acres of agricultural land, both of which 
face intense erosion, groundwater depletion, and inva sive species 
threats.  With support from the Ceres Trust, the Conservation 
F
und, and the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric 
Administr
ation (NOAA), their team of community members  
work to revitalize the land and restore traditional food systems; 
and, in partnership with Kamehameha Schools, they will b e 
extending this stewardship and restoration t o the overall Ka‘amola
ahupua‘a.  Current work focuses on stabilizing the soi l and 
sheltering the Cultural Learning Site and loko i‘a against climate 
change-induced storms and winds.  To that end, ‘Āina M omo na is 
collaborating with the Māla Kalu‘ulu Cooperative to incorporate 
agroforestry on site with native species to restore traditi onal food 
systems, ensure ground water retention, and mitigate e rosion. 
Their overall aim is to create self-determination opportunities 
for Moloka‘i residents while also creating a scalable model for 
community-led restoration for other areas similarly impacted by  
climate change, and to restore the Ka‘amola ahupua‘a t o an ‘āina 
momona again. 
 90Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    91PARTNERSHIPS
Sustainable Development Goal 17 
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global 
partnership for sustainable development
This goal recognizes partnerships as a means of implementation for 
sustainable development and includes targets that address bolstering 
multi-stakeholder partnerships that share knowledge, expertise, and 
technology as well as hold themselves accountable. 
Overview
The ultimate success of Hawai‘i's sustainabilit y actions will rely on effective collaboration 
across organizations.  Currently, many partners hips  are already tackling issues related to the 
SDGs discussed in this plan.  These incl ude (but are  not limited to) the Statewide Sustainability 
Program; the State Office of Planning; County Plan nin g Departments; County Climate and 
Sust ainability Offices; Coastal Zone Manageme nt n etwork ; the  Hawai‘i Climate Change 
Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, the Aloha+  Chal lenge;  and  the Hawai‘i Statewide 
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy.
The COVID-19 global pandemic has brought more clarity  to issues that Hawai‘i can work on, 
such as inequality and an economy over-re lian t on tourism, and provides a chance for a “new 
nor mal” to develop as the state recovers from the pandemic.  There is a unique opportunity 
to engage with partners across government, n onprofi ts, the private sector, educational 
institutions, and the public to advance sus tainabi lity  in the coming years.
Partnerships are a key component of several state  policies and programs.
 92VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge serves as an initiative to enab le public-private partnerships to also 
achieve H
awai‘i's sustainability goals. 
Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 17
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-6 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and 
Policies for the Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-108 of 
the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Priority 
Guidelines and Principles to Promote 
Sustainability
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 226-Part 
II of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Planning 
Coordination & Implementation
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2(b)(9): 
Office of Planning Responsibilities; 
Sustainability and Climate Adaptation 
Planning and Coordination
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes 
§225M-8: Statewide Sustainability
Branch
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-3: 
Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and 
Adaptation CommissionDetails provisions for achieving full employment and economic growth including promoting 
Hawai‘i as an attractive market for investment, penetra ting new markets for Hawai‘i's 
products and services, and fostering cooperation between government and private 
sectors in developing employment and economic growth.
Requires policy that emphasizes that “everyone, including individuals, families, 
communities, businesses, and government, has the responsibility for 
achieving a sustainable Hawai‘i.”
Establishes a statewide planning system to coordinate and guide all major state and 
county activities as well as to implement the overall goals, objectives, policies, and 
priority guidelines from the Hawai‘i State Planning Act.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to develop, monitor, and evaluate 
strategic climate adaptation plans and actionable policy recommendations for the state 
and counties addressing expected statewide climate change impacts and provide planning 
and policy guidance and assistance to state and county agencies regarding climate 
change and sustainability.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to develop, organize, and promote 
policies and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and 
climate policies and goals.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to identify, evaluate, and make 
recommendations regarding proposed legislation, regulatory changes, or policy 
modifications to the governor, the legislature, government agencies, private entities, and 
other bodies for the purpose of encouraging activities that best sustain, protect, and 
e
nhance the quality of the environment, economy,  and community for the present and 
future benefit of the people of Hawai‘i.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Climate Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, which is 
administratively attached to the Department of Land and Natural Resources. 
Coordination of this advisory commission is headed jointly by two co-chairs: the 
Chairperson of the Board of Land and Natural Resources and the Director of the State of 
Hawai‘i's Office of Planning, or their designees.
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: Ten 
Year Measurement Update 2008-2017 
(2018)Provides an informal update includes a comp ilation, review and analysis of available 
metrics originally established by the 2008 version of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, 
along with additional recommendations developed by the Office of Planning.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    93
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: Charting 
a Course for the Decade of Action (2021)Serves as the revised and updated version of  the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, 
provides additional recommendations to achieve within the 2020-2030 decade.
Serves as the State's climate and sustainability strategic action plan.SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
According to a study by 
Gallup, social gathering 
places are the top driver 
of people's attachment to 
their community (Knight 
Foundation 2010).  While 
perhaps an intuitive 
conclusion, it reinforces 
the importance of fostering 
connection through 
placemaking and points to 
one way Hawai‘i's strong 
social ties can be maintained 
as com munities grow and 
change over the coming 
decade.In Ho‘olehua, Moloka‘i, the Lanikeha Community  Cen ter is the 
only large facility available for such social gather ings , mak ing  it an 
especially valued asset for the community.  Origin ally proc ured by 
the  Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance  for its kitchen  to assist 
farmers in created value-added products, rep eated interes t led to 
it also becoming a focal location for commun ity events: hālau hula, 
policy workshops for the community, weddings, a Kūpuna Program , 
and school fairs are just a sample of the diverse events  that have 
bee n held there.  The center was also renovate d in  201 7 through a 
State g rant t o better meet community needs, adding features  like a 
new stage, entertainment and sound systems, an upg raded ce rtified 
kitchen, and solar panels (Pactol 2018).  With  its titular  focus on 
farmers, the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance  dedicates  
much work to assisting them in increasing their economic  stability 
and market reach, but its efforts have since g row n to include the 
commu nity at large, and the center mirrors this  broader mission. 
Inde ed, the Lanikeha Community Center has helped  build new 
bridg es and inspired conversations about how to synerg ize the 
excellent work being done by Moloka‘i's many org aniz ations.  The 
CO VID-19 global pandemic brought further opportun ity to build 
this network to fill gaps in the commun ity.  Sin ce the pandemic 
beg an, Lanikeha Community Center has hosted  events such as toy 
giveaways, food distributions, and a monthly farmer's mark et—not 
only lessening economic impacts but also buffering s ome o f the 
pandemic's social disruptions and helping th e co mmun ity remain 
connected.  Ultimately, the Lanikeha Communi ty Center is  both 
reflective of and nurtures community members' d eep com mitment 
to their home, and it is positioned—physic ally and figuratively—to 
become anything the community needs.
Photo left: Lanikeha Community Center and volunteers from the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance 
supporting their community-based COVID-19 relief program to distribute food, produce, hot meals, 
supplies ( masks, sanitizers, etc.), and certificates for drugstore/prescription purchases in Moloka‘i. Photo 
Credit: The M oloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance.
Photo Right: A farm in Moloka‘i from a farmer participating in the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. 
Photo Credit: The Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance.
 94Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    952021–2030  
RECOMMENDED ACTIONS
Hawai‘i has the opportunity to make significant progress toward sustainability over this decade, building on 
the momentum of the past decade. Public engagement on this plan update identified climate action as the top 
sustainability priority over the next 5- and 10-year periods. 
This section presents recommended actions over this decade, 
based on an assessment of: 
Overall, this plan identifies eight focus areas fo r this decade, each of which includes specific st rategies and 
example s of actions that can be taken to advance th e St ate's environme ntal, social, and economic sustainabilit y 
objectives.  The strategies and actions presente d in  this s ection draw from existing strategic plans, laws, 
policies, and input from public and stakeholder engagement.  Some actions can be addressed or begun 
immediate ly over the next five years; others build upon the fiv e-yea r actions or include longer-term strategie s 
that may  begin in the second half of the decade.  Fina lly, this list is not exhaustive but rather seeks to highli ght 
and encourage the adoption of strategic actions ident ified through existing efforts of state agenci es and ot her 
entities.
Photo Credit: State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i Tourism Auth orityAnticipated readiness 
for action, based on the existence of at least some of these commitments:
• The State of Hawai‘i has an 
existing sustainability targetcodified in law.
• Existing state-mandated
policies or government policies are in place to implement actions.
• There is a dedicated state
strategic plan that defines requirements for making progress toward the goalSense of urgency, as identified through public and stakeholder engagementPotential to address important themes identified through public engagement, including:
• Equity is either directly 
or indirectly addressed by implementation of the action.
• The action area is consistent 
with Native Hawaiian and localvalues, including:
–  Intergenerational equity
–  Exp licit honoring and 
protection of native 
practices (e.g., gathering) 
–  Use what you have before 
you build new
• Partnership opportunities 
exist for collaborating to secure funding and implement actions.
• The action area will benefit
local residents.Multiple SDGs addressed
 96Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    97LOCAL AGRICULTURE  
This section bu ilds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-4; Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205; the Hawai‘i Statewide 
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy; and the Hawai‘i Tourism Authority's Strategic Plan. 
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.PROMOTE A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC RECOVERY2021–2030 Focus Area
Encourage the development of 
regional food processing and 
packaging facilities and food hubs 
across all islands to support local 
agriculture distribution.
Work with farmers to address 
barriers such as access to 
retention o f agricultural land, 
adoption of
 innovative 
technologies, affordable 
agricultural workforce housing, and 
irrigation needs.
Enhance the availability of 
financing to help farmers through 
mechanisms such as the livestock 
revitalization program and 
agricultural loan program. 
Develop and distribute locally-
relevant information and data that 
will help agricultural operators 
make informed business decisions.
Provide new and existing farmers 
with access to agricultural 
land, irrigation water, capital 
investments, training, and 
processing/packaging facilities.
Protect lands with a high capacity 
for intensive cultivation of food b y 
minimizing land prices or rents 
based on non-agricultural use.
Expand public outreach and grants 
to farmers, incentivizing the pivot 
to different business strategies. Encourage local food purchases for 
state-run programs including schools, 
universities, colleges, and prisons 
through a Farm-to-State Program.
Support consumer education programs 
that promote local farm recognition and 
inform on the benefits of buying local 
farm products (nutritional, economics, 
social, cultural).
Expand and improve branding and 
labeling programs to identify local 
foods.
Empower and inform agricultural 
producers what minimum quality, 
quantity, and timeliness is required to 
be able to sell local foods in hotels and 
local markets.
Support efforts that encourage the 
visitor industry to purchase local 
products and locally grown food 
whenever appropriate to reduce 
dependence on imports and increase 
local economic activity.
Support 
local food marketing programs 
to 
focus on people, place and products 
throughout the Hawaiian Islands.
Increase agricultural education within 
secondary 
schools, vocational schools, 
and colleges.  
Develop a seafood hatchery and new 
aquaculture farm  for local consumption 
and export.
Explore and invest in value-added 
products from Hawai‘i farms and 
support and educate farmers on 
promotional opportunities to create a 
Hawai‘i marketplace of products. 
Elevate the need for agricultural 
planning and investment to meet local 
food security targets. Encourage susta inable crop management 
practices (e.g., organic farming, no till, 
improved manure management and 
sustainable irrigation practices) that 
may provide environmental services and 
co-benefits, such as protecting against soil 
degradation, providing GHG sequestration, 
increasing biodiversity and soil fertility, and 
maintaining or increasing economic 
production of crops and animal protein in 
order to meet the state's doubling of food 
production goals.
Continue to support the education of Native 
Hawaiian pract ices and other cultural 
farming pract ices such as lo‘i farming to 
enhance local food productivity growth and 
protect Hawai‘i's environment. 
Continue to support the education of the 
genuine threat s of invasive species to local 
farmlands and  surrounding land habitats.
Ensure consistent funding for agricultural 
infrastructure improvements, operations, 
and maintenance .
Continue the Sta te's purchase of fee 
interest
 for available prime agricultural 
lands
 before they are subject to non-
agricultural
 development. 
Coordinate water reuse expansion efforts 
with the Department of Agriculture's 
Agribusiness Development Corporation.
Explore and invest in the technological 
advancement of Hawai‘i-based agriculture 
and food production, including indoor 
greenhouse growing opportunities.
Utilize more smart and high technology to 
improve agricultural production in Hawai‘i. 
Research and study proof of concept for 
large scale protected agriculture as an 
alternative to conventional agricultural 
production. 
Expand public outreach and grants 
to farmers, incentivizing the pivot to 
sustainable and regenerative, and 
greenhouse gas sequestration agricultural 
business strategies. Identify opportunities to provide 
funding for and encourage youth 
engagement in the green workforce.
Incorporate gre en job pathways at b oth 
high school and 2-year college 
programs.
Enlist the support of policymakers, 
educational administrators, and others 
to provide the
 facilities, resources, a nd 
incentives that nurture and enable 
research, innovation, and technology. 
Develop a local green job youth 
corps program that prioritizes the 
State's workforce development
 and 
economic diversification, while 
providing temporary work and training 
opportunities for young adults in 
natural resource management, 
agricultural development, conservation, 
renewable energy, or other 
sustainability 
professions.
Cultivate and sustain interest in youth 
and innovation, farm mentorship and 
other agricultural-related programs t o 
promote vocational interest in 
agriculture, aquaponics, and robotics.STRATEGY 1
Support farmer 
livelihoods STRATEGY 4
Invest in green 
workforce development, 
beginning with youthSTRATEGY 2
Support local markets 
for locally grown foodSTRATEGY 3
Promote sustainable & 
resilient farmland, 
practices, and 
infrastructure GREEN WORKFORCE 
DEVELOPMENT AND 
EDU CATION
This section builds on recommendations 
from existing laws, policies, and strategic 
action plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive 
 98
GREEN WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT ANDEDUCATIONDIVERSIFIED 
ECONOMY  
This section builds on 
recommendations from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic action 
plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy. REGENERATIVE TOURISM 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy,  F
orest Action Plan, and Hawai‘i 
Tourism Authority's Strategic Plan. Recommendations were also 
identified through state, c
ounty, stakeholder, and public input. 
Encourage innovation, entrepreneurship, 
and small business development.
Provide Hawai‘i small business  and 
entrepreneurial
 support and enhance 
skill-building opportunities and w orkforce 
retraining.
Strengthen existing partnerships and 
form new ones to enhance high quality 
job creation in Hawai‘i.
Provide workers with skills to adapt to 
job changes, navigate between careers, 
and create an adaptive workfor ce. 
Develop Hawai‘i's vulnerable workforce 
to include adaptive skills desirable 
in the 21st century job environment, 
leading to greater adaptability, higher 
probability to find work, and pivot during 
or soon after future economic shocks. 
Develop local manufacturing periphery 
(including local creative agencies), and 
business to business (B2B) services. 
Increase investment opportunity for l ocal 
manufacturing. 
Develop sustainable, resiliency-oriented 
products to be 
manufactured locally.
Support business pivots, revenue 
diversity, product manufacturing, and 
sales of local products. 
Integrate circular economic principles in 
local manufacturing opportunities. 
Prioritize resources to stimulate 
development of economic clusters, and 
the competitive advantages shared and 
invested in locally. 
Increase digital and financial literacy 
within Hawai‘i's schools and workforce. 
Foster an ecosystem of innovation, 
research, education, and 
entrepreneurship that creates living-
wage jobs and a diversified economy.Develop emerging industries and 
diversify economic clusters.
Develop creative industry 
infrastructure.
Provide post-production creative 
industry training.
Build a robust media and entertainment 
complex to develop the film industry. 
Strengthen vocational workforce 
training to high-paying creative industry 
jobs. 
Connect local creative industry artists 
to online platforms for sales and 
marketing. 
Empower creative industry content 
creators to market their projects.
Grow three priority sectors: Healthcare 
(including clinical and community 
health), Technology (including IT and 
clean energy), and Skilled Trades 
(including sustainable agriculture, 
manufacturing, sustainable 
development, and construction) . Identify the impacts of and best practices for 
ecotourism. 
Evaluate the feasibility of a state certification 
program to provide authentic ecotourism 
opportunities while also providing for 
enhanced protection of  natural and cultural 
resources.
Assist and recognize visit
or industry 
businesses that operate in an 
environmentally and socially responsible 
manner, including local
 food purchasing, 
waste reduction, and reducing petroleum-
based energy, and water use.
Launch a collaborative t
ourism-based 
environmental sustainability program with 
natural resource partner s to mitigate visitor 
impacts and support responsible tourism 
initiatives.
Protect and enhance re
cognition of Hawai‘i 
as a green destination. 
Incentivize and facilitate a shift to a 
regenerative visitor in dustry that has a 
smaller footprint and
 that aims to sustain and 
improve the quality of life for Hawai‘i 
residents. 
Mitigate impacts of tourism from a 
community standpoint through conducting 
the destination manageme nt 
planning 
process statewide. 
Promote Hawai‘i’s sustainability, natural 
resources, local agriculture, and climate-
resilience through Hawai‘i tourism marketing 
and branding. 
Enable Hawai‘i tourism to contribute to the 
regeneration of Hawai‘i’s natural beauty, 
resources, and unique culture.
Develop a framework for 
a comprehensive 
sea level adaptation and resilience plan for 
the Waikīkī Special District.Monitor local infrastructure to 
support resident
 and visitor activity, 
assist counties in building capacity 
to service international flights, 
provide eco- and green tourism 
opportunities in balance with 
community input.
Convene community, government, 
and industry networks to support 
destination management and 
increase collaboration in 
responding t o negative tourism 
impacts on H awai‘i's commun ities.
Provide members of the 
visitor industry with access 
to comprehensive Hawaiian c ultural 
training, curriculum, and 
programming.
Enhance the visitor experience with 
programs that create and nurtu
re a 
Hawaiian sense of place.STRATEGY 5
Foster the development 
of jobs that can sustain 
families financiallySTRATEGY 6
Support diversification 
of the economySTRATEGY 7
Reduce the 
environmental footprint 
of the tourism industrySTRATEGY 8
Support native 
Hawaiian culture & 
reduce impacts of the 
tourism industry to 
local communities
Development Strategy, Aloha+ 
Challenge, and University of 
Hawai‘i Strategic Directions. 
Recommendations were also 
identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
Hawai'i 2050 Sus tainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||     992021–2030 Focus Area
REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Develop a Climate Action Plan to 
meet the State's Zero Emissions Clean 
Economy Target by 20 45, using 
Science Based Targe ts and the IPCC 
reports.
Require emission reductions by se tting 
a more stringent post-2020 
sector-wide cap.
Continue to measure GHG emissions 
through periodic updates of the state's 
GHG inventory.
Identify types of agricultural and 
aquacultural practices, public land and 
marine use policies, and on-farm 
managing practices that would provide 
greenhouse gas be nefits and resul t in 
tangible econ omic benefits to 
agric ultural  and aquacultural 
operations.
Estab lish short-term and long-te rm 
benchmarks that would indicate 
how effectively agricultural and 
aquacultural activities have helped to 
reach the State's Zero Emission Clean 
Economy Target by 2045.
Explore establishing net-zero GH G 
goals for all projects, including 
construction and infrastructure 
projects, to meet Hawai‘i's Zero 
Emissions Clean Economy Target by 
2045.
Encourage smart- growth st rategies to 
foster urban infill development and re-
development to sign ificantly reduce 
the numb er of vehicular trips take n, 
reduce  traffic and congestion, a nd 
GHG emissions.Screen projects over a particular size 
for impact on climate change mitigation 
or achievement of other SDGs.
Consider the impact of agency plans, 
decisions, and strategies on the S tate's 
ability to achieve its climate  and 
sustainability goals—including  the 
State's ability to achieve th
e Zero 
Emissions Clean Economy Target by 
2045—weighed appropriately against 
their primary purpose.
Give consideration to climate change 
planning in land use planning. 
Investigate the possibility of 
establishing a fund to support and 
incentivize voluntary greenhouse 
gas reduction measures and set 
funding criteria that will make the m ost 
economic sense of the state 
(including from: voluntary contributions 
from individuals or organizations, tax 
revenue, utility ratepayer revenue, or 
financial institutions).Improve the awareness and 
understanding of energy resources by 
investing in ongoing community-based 
energy education. 
Develop a clean energy public 
education plan and curriculum in 
coordination with institutions of public 
education.
Create incentives for energy-efficient 
behavior.
Study how energy conservation can 
be used as an incentive for, and 
complement to, water conservation.Advance the 1- year, 2-year, an d 5-year 
actions identified in the 2020  Hawai‘i Stat e 
Energy Office (HSEO) Annual Report on 
energy efficiency, clean transportation, 
energy assura nce and resiliency, and 
renewable ene rgy deployment.
Align policies and processes to enable 
adoption of mo re renewable energy 
sources and accelerate the adoption of 
storage.
Enable grid imp rovements and 
modernization  toward greater 
interconnection of renewable resources.
Work on innova tive clean ene rgy initiative s 
(for example,  biofuels, hydr ogen, 
microgrids, wo rking with community-friendly 
developers).
Expand micro-g ridding, grid planning, 
cluster-based energy, and smart meters 
throughout the  state. 
Increase rene wable energy in stallations 
through energy performance contracts. 
Increase solar and storage bat tery projects. 
Increase statewide rooftop ph otovoltaic 
installation.
Encourage and expand zero emissions 
vehicle charging in public ar eas, 
commercial area s, workplaces, households, 
and apartment dwellings. 
Improve access to energy efficiency, 
renewable ene rgy, and zero emissions 
vehicle charging options for rental units an d 
condos. 
Inspire and tra nsform Hawai‘i's clean 
energy future and expand the use of 
hydrogen fuel cell technology. 
Educate the g eneral public on the benefits 
of hydrogen fu el cell technology. GHG EMISSIONS 
This section builds on recommendations from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic action plans, i ncluding Hawa
i‘i Revised 
Statutes §225P-4 and §225P-5, and the Carbon Offset Feasibility 
Report. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input. CLEAN & EFFICIENT ENERGY 
These strategies build upon recommendations  from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic  action plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy, HSE O Annual 
Reports, the Water Resource Protection Plan, and the O‘ahu  Resilience 
Strategy. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
STRATEGY 9  
Measure, manage, and plan  
for GHG emission reductionSTRATEGY 12 
Continue to invest in the 
deployment of clean 
energy technologies to 
reduce reliance on fossil 
fuelsSTRATEGY 10
Incorporate climate change 
planning into decision-
making processesSTRATEGY 11 
Promote energy 
conservation and efficiency 
through outreach, 
com munication, and 
community and public 
engagement
 100
REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Implement expanded infrastructure for 
ZEVs, including energy storage and 
increasing the availability  of electric 
charging and hydrogen fueling stations.
Adopt a plan for statewide adoption o f 
ZEVs.
Incorporate ZEVs into State and 
County government fleet.Promote safe, connected multimodal 
transportation  options focusin g on 
equitable opportunities to walk, bike, 
and rely on other forms of active 
transportation to connect to transit.
Develop bike and pedestrian pathway 
networks statewide to increase  
multimodal con nectivity.  
Create transportation hubs designed 
to facilitate transfer from one mode of 
transportation to other modes of  
transportation  while enhancing rider 
comfort and safe ty. 
Expand public transportation  systems 
to facilitate home to work commuting 
in areas with  the greatest economic 
need.
Modernize transportation planning 
and projects to:  enhance equit y for all 
communities, reduce transportation 
costs to residen ts, minimize injuries 
and fatalities, improve public health 
and quality of life, and redu ce 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
Use travel demand forecasting and 
other tools t o assess future road 
capacities and  the effectiveness of 
alternative mod es of travel.
Promote alternative transportation 
options in the development of new 
communities an d infrastructure . Advance sustainable purchasing 
practices for state, county, and 
commercial procurement. 
Use financial mechanisms to 
incentivize
 waste reduction.
Update the Department of Health 
(DOH)
 Health Code as needed to 
increase the
 use of reusables in food 
service. 
Develop strategies to encourage plastic 
reduction and reuse in the food service 
industry, such as reusable container 
incentive programs for customers.
Develop recommendations for the 
implementation of a uniform, statewide 
policy for single-use plastics such 
as plastic bags and polystyrene 
foam containers that can replace 
existing county ordinances and p rovide 
businesses with laws that are 
consistent throughout the state.
Study and develop recommendations 
to implement extended producer 
responsibility to address solid waste, 
including bulky items and plastic 
packaging.
Review and update existing legislation 
to achieve statewide waste reduction 
goals.
Establish a 5-year state-facilitated 
education campaign about waste 
reduction.Reduce waste t hrough encourag ing 
source reductio n and increased  use 
of repairing, recycling, and 
composting services for residential, 
commercial, g overnmental, and 
industrial wa ste.
Accelerate regional composting 
statewide. 
Require owners and managers of 
multi-family dwellings and multi-
tenant commercial buildings to 
provide recycling services.
Comply with la ws requiring 
recycling in state-owned facilities.
Expand opportu nities for met hane 
capture and reuse at landfills, 
waste-to-energy facilities, 
wastewater tre atment facilities, and 
anaerobic digesters.
Evaluate recycling opportunit ies for 
large volume a nd hazardous wa ste 
streams, such as photo-voltaic solar 
panels and lit hium-ion batte ries 
from electric vehicles.
Update the St ate's Integrated  Solid 
Waste Manageme nt Plan.
Review and upda te existing 
legislation t o achieve state wide 
diversion goals.WASTE MANAGEMENT  
This section builds on recommendations from e xisting laws, 
policies, and strategic action plans, including the Department of Health's 
Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report, County of Hawai‘i's 
Climate Action Plan, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan T en Year 
Measurement Report, and the O‘ahu Resilience
 Strategy. Recommendations 
were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.SUSTAINABLE 
TRANSPORTATION
STRATEGY 13 
Expand the adoption of 
zero emission vehicles 
(ZEVs)STRATEGY 14 
Promote alternative 
modes of transportationSTRATEGY 15 
Reduce the generation 
of waste, including 
plastic  wasteSTRATEGY 16 
Increase diversion of 
waste through 
recycling, reuse, and 
compostingThese strategies  build upon existing laws, policies, and strategic action 
plans, including Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-9, the Honolulu Annual 
Sustainability Report, and the Hawai‘i County Climate Action Plan. 
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder,
 and public input.
Haw ai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    101
2021–2030 Focus Area
IMPR O
VE CLIMATE RESILIENCE 
Improve interagency and intragovernmental 
coordination to assess and address impacts 
from sea level rise, flooding,  drought, heat, 
wildfire, and other climate-relate d hazards. 
Inventory and analyze critical infrastructure 
assets threatened by climate-related 
hazards (e.g., those along shoreline 
threatened by chronic and episodic coastal 
hazards and future sea level rise 
projections). 
Investigate the financial risk to /exposure of 
the state associated with climate change. 
Study the impacts of sea level rise 
projections on cultural and archeolo gical 
resources, such as gathering sites, 
fishponds or fish traps (loko i‘a), places of 
worship and shrines (he iau), and 
petroglyphs (ki‘i pohaku). 
Coordinate across agencies with 
operational responsibilities over state 
facilities to: identify existing and planned 
facilities that are vulnerable to climate-
related hazards; assess options to increase 
the resilience of those facilities; and report 
on progress made in implementing 
adaptation strategies in future plans, 
programs, and capital improveme nt needs 
and decisions.
Develop a statewide Climat e Adaptation 
and Resilience Implementation Plan.
Incorporate regional managed retreat or 
strategic relocation analysis into  planning. 
Study the feasibility of and prioritize nature-
based solutions (e.g., on  Hawai‘i's high 
energy shorelines to manage and mitigate 
erosion).  
Include the increased and changing risks of 
chemical contamination due to sea level 
rise and increased flooding from climate 
change in future updates to the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability Plan and 2017 Sea 
Level Rise Vulnerabilit y and Adaptation 
Report, and incorporate efforts to mitigate 
risks in state, county, and local planning.Develop a netwo rk of commun ity 
resilience hub s. 
Engage state and county agencies, 
private secto r, and nonprofit 
organizations in identifying the most 
critical climat e risks facing the state. 
Invest in the continued monitoring and 
research on th e impacts of weather 
hazards under climate change on the 
state and mitigation measures.
Increase public awareness about 
climate risks facing the state, counties, 
and the public and actions th ey can 
take individua lly to increase  their 
resilience and  minimize negative 
impacts.Establish an emergency food supply 
and storage st rategy. 
Identify
 and select adaptation 
strategies
 (e.g., infrastructure 
investments, policy changes) that 
increase Hawai‘i's resilience while 
upholding the goals of doing so 
equitably (e.g., using an equity lens 
framework) and in line with Native 
Hawaiian, Traditional Ecological 
Knowledge, and local values. 
Articulate the business case for 
investments
 in resilience strategies 
(estimating costs of inaction 
as well as financial benefits of 
investments) to ensure reliable 
energy,
 transportation fuel, and other 
s
ystems. 
Seek federal funding to increase the 
resilience of Hawai‘i's infrastructure 
and other assets (through 
implementation
 of strategies to 
protect, accommodate, and/or 
relocate).Develop a Socia l Vulnerability Index to 
identify populations most at r isk.
Apply the Social Vulnerabilit y Index 
(SVI) to develop climate ada ptation 
strategies th at are targeted  to 
addressing vulnerabilities. 
Encourage community involvemen t and 
resilience by working with community 
members, match ing community pa rtners 
with funders, and initiating 
conversations between commun ities 
and the govern ment.STRATEGY 17
Integrate climate change 
adaptation and resilience 
considerations into 
planning and 
implementationSTRATEGY 20
Increase the resilience of 
vulnerable populations 
to the impacts of climate 
change and other shocks 
and stressorsSTRATEGY 18
Assess and communicate 
the impacts of climate 
change to residents, 
businesses, and 
communities most likely 
to be impactedSTRATEGY 19
Implement actions t hat 
improve the
 state's 
resilience to
 climate 
changeThis section builds on recommendations from existing la ws, policies, and strategic action plans, including t he Department of Health-Hazard 
Evaluation and Emergency Response Office Memorandum on Risks of Sea Level Rise and Increased Flooding on Known Chemical 
Contamination in Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Climate Change Adap tation Priority Guidelines, Forest Action Plan, O‘ahu Res ilience Strategy, Ocean 
Resources Management Plan, and the Sea Level Rise Vulnerabil ity and Adaptation Report. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
 102Utilize and fund integration of efficiency 
and green building requirements for new 
construction and major renovation projects. 
Explore further use of building codes 
and standards to improve and direct 
efficiencies among the existing and new 
infrastructure of the State of Hawai‘i.  
Strengthen Hurricane Sheltering to highest 
degree possible to withstand Category 5 
hurricanes. 
Establish a homeowners retrofit grant 
program for severe storm events. 
Ensure statewide resilient emergency 
power generation. 
Incentivize the use of green roofs. 
Study and implement green infrastructure 
design guidelines and policies. 
Support and expand on-site rainwater 
harvesting and stormwater management. 
Expand and integrate permeable pavement 
and concrete opportunities. 
Consider ecoblock/ecobuilding 
development to promote decentralized 
water and sustainable energy to reduce the 
development‘s carbon and water footprints. 
Consider underground cistern/detention 
infiltration chambers and above ground 
cisterns to collect and store rooftop rainfall 
and storm water runoff for water reuse 
strategies. 
Consider the adoption of a “one water 
approach” to provide integrated planning 
and implementation approach to managing 
finite water resources for long-term 
resilience and reliability, meeting both 
community and ecosystem needs.
Utilize green building performance tracking 
and metrics for building retrofits and 
consider impacts to building occupant 
health.Collaborate with design professionals, 
developers, and contractors to identify 
synergistic sustainability and greenhouse 
gas emission reduction strategies that meet 
larger State and County goals while 
supporting affordability and workforce 
development. 
Establish partnerships and capital to build, 
maintain, and enhance infrastructure  and 
fund the developm
ent of sustainable 
housing. 
Encourage innovative residential 
developments which result in: lower cost, 
the sustainable use of resources, more 
efficient use of land and infrastructure, 
greater convenience and privacy, and a 
distinct community identity.
Update building codes and standards 
in a timely manner to increase clean energy 
and energy efficiency, water reuse a nd 
reclamation, and material resource 
efficiency among existing and new 
infrastructure in the State of Hawai‘i. 
Prioritize and fund the implementation and 
adoption of standards such as LEED® and 
ENERGY STAR®, to the extent that they 
support increased
 efficiency of buildings 
within the state.
Continue to explore and support 
low-carbon building products to
 reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions in building 
materials. 
Continue to encourage development within 
existing urban centers to reduce
 vehicle 
miles traveled, reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, promote transit-oriented 
development planning efforts, and increase 
the efficient use
 of infrastructure to create 
distinct communities throughout Hawai‘i.
Emphasize existing building reuse and 
adaptation of Hawai‘i‘s extensive existing 
building stock to limit the embodied  carbon 
impact of new construction. 
IMPROVE CLIMATE RESILIENCE2021–2030 Focus Area
ADV ANCE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES
Promote human-powered 
transportation, multimodal systems, 
and connectivity throughout the 
state. 
Implement the  Department of 
Transportation's Statewide 
Pedestrian Master Plan.
Increase the urban tree canopy and 
increase dedicated bike lane miles. 
Integrate state and county 
transit-oriented development and 
smart growth measures in creating 
sustainable, livable communities.
Increase public availability
 of outdoor 
spaces and provide areas where 
people can interact with natur e and 
each other and  reduce urban  heat 
island effects.
Advance multimodal transportation 
systems into the land use planning of 
new communitie s and redevelopment 
of existing communities.Adopt ZEVs in school fleets (e.g., 
schoolbuses), where feasible. 
Expand more farm-to-school 
opportunities, including the ‘aina pono 
program. 
Incorporate sustainable development 
practices into educational curricula t o 
promote sustainability through 
individual actions as well as 
community-wide initiatives.
Plan and implement strategies to 
achieve net-zero energy use in 
schools  and universitie
s by 2035.
Establish a Sustainability Coordinator 
position for the Department of 
Education to support and incorporate 
sustainable practices in K-12 public 
schools and plan for meeting the net-
zero energy goal in schools. 
Reduce waste through encouraging 
source reduction and increased use o f 
repairing, reuse, recycling, and 
composting services in schools and 
universities statewide.STRATEGY 21
Advance smart growth 
initiatives 
and multimodal 
transportation systemsSTRATEGY 22
Advance sustainability in 
school and university 
operationsSTRATEGY 23
Integrate sustainable design principles into new and 
existing buildingsThis section draws from strategies identified in the priorities of the State's Climate Commission 
and recommendations from existing laws, policies, and st rategic action plans, including  the Aloha+ Challenge, Carbon Offset 
Feasibility Report, City and County of Honolulu General Plan, EPA Greening America's Communities: Greening Iwilei a nd 
Kapalama, O‘ahu Resilience Strategy, State of Hawai‘i Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, and the State of Hawai‘i S trategic Plan for 
Transit-Oriented Development. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
 103
 Hawai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    2021–2030 Focus Area
ADVANCE EQUITY
Invest in programs that will provide 
students
 with digital content via tablets, 
laptops and
 other mobile devices. 
Provide free high-speed Internet 
services in
 public areas in and around all 
state buildings,
 public libraries, and 
schools. 
Enable rapid introduction of community 
broadband in areas that do not have 
effective broadband service. 
Identify barriers to the adoption of 
broadband and information technology 
services through
 collection of public and 
private sector data, including outreach 
survey activities. 
Expand broadband and increase remote 
work opportunities to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions from commuting, and 
address
 equity for rural communities and 
other
 broadband-dependent services.
Maintain a broadband mapping service 
to
 identify underserved communities.
Develop and implement provider and 
consumer incentives accordingly for  last-
mile installation or service subscription to 
encourage adoption and foster provision 
of
 affordable services in strategic areas.
Transition Hawai‘i's government toward 
more
 digital systems. 
Invest in and improve existing cable 
landing
 infrastructure. 
Grow the Statewide Geographic 
Information
 Systems Program.
Support and adopt the goals set forth in 
the Digital Equity Declaration for Hawai‘i 
adopted
 by the state's Broadband Hui.
Expand strategic broadband 
infrastructure
 to build a robust, resilient 
network including government-owned, 
non-profit or cooperative networks to 
enable all Hawai‘i residents to
 access 
the global internet. Implement strategies identified in the 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and 
Ten-Year Plan and the Hawai‘i State 
Functional Plan on Housing.
Implement alternative financing 
mechanisms to support affordable 
housing, such as mixed-use 
developments.
Establish public-private partnerships to 
fund the development of sustainable 
housing. 
Increase affordable housing 
opportunities for households up to 
140% of the AMI. 
Increase and sustain the supply of 
permanent rental housing that is 
affordable and accessible to Hawai‘i 
residents, particularly those with 
incomes at or below 80% AMI.
Support Hawaiian Home Lands 
Homesteading programs.Work to reduce current homelessness 
by supporting rapid rehousing 
programs t hat provide equitable 
financial a ssistance to help people 
access safe  housing. 
Combat future homelessness by 
identifying persons at risk and 
connecting them with homelessness 
prevention programs such as 
supportive s ervices, mediation in 
housing court,  and rent subsidies. 
Support permanent supportive housing 
for chronically homeless individuals 
experiencing the longest episodes of 
homelessness.
Review and implement best practices 
from programs such Kahauiki Village 
(O‘ahu), Huliau (Maui) or Kealalula 
at Pua Loke (Kaua‘i) that combine l ow-
cost housing models with on-site 
supportive services, and a specific 
preference for households transitioning 
out of homelessness.Boost childcare, eldercare, and 
education, and offer support for women 
whose jobs and family roles may have 
been especially hurt by the COVID-19 
global pandemic. 
Increase sustainable employment 
opportunities for all, regardless of 
gender identification.
Increase gender diversity across state, 
local, and private sector leadership 
positions.
Increase awareness of the gender 
spectrum across all levels of 
government.
Ensure the representation of women, 
youth, LGBTQ+ persons, and 
immigrants  within all levels of decision-
making.STRATEGY 24
Strengthen broadband 
access to support digital 
learning and online 
solutions in rural areasSTRATEGY 27
Continue to advance 
opportunities for all, 
regardless of genderSTRATEGY 25
Continue to improve 
economic and social  
sustainability of  
individuals t hrough  
access to  affordable 
housingSTRATEGY 26
Continue to implement  
strategies that reduce 
homelessness in Hawai‘i 
to enhance livelihoodsACCESS TO RESOURCES  
Actions in this section build on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Broadband  
Strategic Plan, Hawai‘i 
Housing Planning Study, Housing Functional Plan, and the State of Hawai‘i 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan. Recommendations were also 
identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.GENDER 
EQUITY
This section build s on recommendatio ns  
from existing laws , policies, and str ategic 
action plans, inc luding the Femini st 
Economic Recovery  Plan. Recommendati ons 
were also identi fied through state,  county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
 104
ADVANCE EQUITY2021–2030 Foc us Area
INSTITUTIONALIZE SUSTAINABILITY
Continue to leve rage governme nt 
public-privat e partnerships to advance 
sustainable deve lopment goals.
Increase coor dination across 
government, nonprofits, the private 
sector, and communities to address 
and implement the SDGs.
Fund and staff  the State Sustainability 
Program and ot her statewide a nd 
county coordina ting programs 
responsible f or implementing the 
SDGs.Update portions of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act t o reflect current priorities 
for sustainability and climate  change 
adaptation (e. g., focus on t he update 
and modernization of the agriculture 
industry), including those identified in 
this plan.
Update the State Functional 
Plans that were not recently updated 
during the 21st  century, to align with 
climate change and sustainability 
targets and bet ter reflect th e current 
state of plann ing needs, with 
a  particular f ocus on the En ergy, 
Agriculture, Conservation, Recreation, 
Transportation, and Tourism 
Functional Pla ns. 
Integrate land use planning to a ddress 
Hawai‘i's compe ting uses 
of land to mut ually obtain local food 
production goa ls, affordable housing 
needs, sustaina ble energy goa ls, and 
conservation.
The State Sust ainability Pro gram 
should measure the progress of these 
recommendation s on every 5th year 
between the decennial update of 
this plan to e nsure progress t oward 
Hawai‘i's sust ainability goa ls.Procure environm entally preferable and sust ainable products,  including 
recycled a nd recycled- content, bio-ba sed, and oth er resource-efficient products 
and materials. 
Design and construct governm ent buildings that meet the LEED® rating 
systems or ano ther comparable state-appro ved, nationally recognized, and 
consensus-base d guideline, sta ndard, or system, except whe n the guidelin e, 
standard, or system interferes or conflicts with the use o f the building or facility 
as an emergency shelter.
Implement water and energy efficiency pract ices in operations to reduce waste 
and increase co nservation. 
Incorporate p rinciples of wast e minimizatio n and pollutio n prevention,  such as 
reducing, revising, and recycling as a standard operating practice in programs, 
including pro grams for wast e management in construction and demolition 
projects and of fice paper and packaging recycling programs. 
Implement strat egies to work toward on-site water reclamat ion and develop or 
retrofit infrastructure to support water reuse in 100% of government facilities by 
2045. 
Explore further opportunities to retrofit existing structures and to design new 
structures that  reduce our carbon footprint  and increase the government's 
ability to adap t to climate change impacts.
Maximize the u se of solar o n or around all state buildings and parking f acilities, 
especially for  new construct ion and major renovations.STRATEGY 28
Invest in staff and other 
resources to coordinate 
and advance sustainability 
goals across state 
agencies and local 
governmentsSTRATEGY 29
Update state policies to 
reflect sustainability and 
climate change prioritiesSTRATEGY 30
Incorporate sustainability into government 
operationsGREEN 
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONSGOVERNMENT CAPACITY TO ADDRESS SUSTAINABLITY
Strategies in this section build upon recommendations from existing 
laws, and policies. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Strategies in this section build upon recommendations from existing 
laws, and policies. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Hawai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    105
2021–2030 Focus Area
PRESERVE THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT 
Work toward the 2050 cesspool 
reduction requirement and develop 
infrastructure to support the 
elimination
 of cesspools. 
Increase
 the shared understanding of 
green stormwater infrastructure 
among
 homeowners, government 
officials, practitioners, and private 
industry
 through continued outreach 
efforts. 
Evaluate the use of green 
infrastructure along Hawai‘i's 
shoreline
 and t hroughout the coastal 
zone,
 with the dual-benefit o f 
controlling erosion and other 
shorelin
e processes while mitigating 
the impacts of land-based pollution 
and inland flooding.
Sponsor symposia and trainings on 
green
 infrastructure installation and 
m
aintenance for professionals, 
homeowners, and advocates.
Identify adaptations needed to 
implement
 green  infrastructure 
successfully in Hawai‘i's unique 
conditions
 (topography, climate, 
soils, and development patterns).
Study the efficacy, cost, and  lifespan 
of green infrastructure
 and traditional 
water management techniques 
compared to the ‘grey‘ infrastructure 
currently 
utilized in Hawai‘i.
Ensure that water quality 
improvement
 and water reuse 
strategies are incorporated with land 
u
se planning. Establish mandatory recycled water 
use zones with in reasonable t ransport 
distances from major s ources of 
recycled water and e stablish 
i
ncentives for developers. 
Upgrade Water Reuse regulations t o 
allow unrestricted irrigation with R -1 
recycled water and allow use  of 
municipal delivered R-1 recycled 
water
 in individual residences for 
landscape and crops irrigation.
Allow groundwater recharge with 
recycled water for: use as a barrier 
against
 seawater intrusion, aquifer 
storage and recovery, indirect
 potable 
reuse, and as a flood m itigation 
s
trategy. 
Mandate use of recycled water  where 
available for golf course, l andscape, 
and agriculture irrigation w ithin 
d
esignated recycled water use zones.
Develop standards and guidelines for 
stormwater reclamation and reuse. 
Conduct water audits of public water 
systems to verify use and aid water 
providers
 in identifying water  losses. 
Develop water shortage plans for 
priority
 water management areas. 
Upgrade water reuse regulations t o 
encourage uses of graywater w ithin a 
development parcel with a
 simplified 
permitting system.
Ensure that water quality 
improvement
 and water reuse 
strategies
 are incorporated with land 
u
se planning.Protect coral r eef systems by 
establishing a network of ecological-
connected marine management areas, 
informed by ecological and socio-
cultural desig n principles cr eated using 
the best readily available science, local 
expert knowledg e including traditional 
ecological knowledge. 
Increase education and outreach  efforts 
to build a greater public awareness for 
responsible behavior affecting aquatic 
resources.
Support invasive species management 
and watershed protection.Expand the use of sea level rise 
and land cover data in conducting 
stormwater
 assessments and modeling.
Protect ahupua‘a that recharge 
freshwater
 supplies.
Evaluate the use of green stormwater 
infrastructure along Hawai‘i's s horeline 
and throughout the coastal z one, with 
the dual benefit of
 controlling erosion 
and other shoreline p rocesses while 
mitigating the  impacts of land-based 
pollution and
 inland flooding. STRATEGY 31
Improve water quality 
through reduced 
pollution and dumpingSTRATEGY 34
Manage climate change 
impacts to marine 
resourcesSTRATEGY 32
Support water  r euse  
strategies to  conserve  
waterSTRATEGY 33
Esta blish policies to 
protect Hawai‘i's unique 
marine ecosystemsCLEAN WATER
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, 
and strategic action plans, including the Ocean Resources Management 
Plan, Water Resources Protection Plan, and the Water Reuse Plan.  
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.MARINE RESOURCES
& ECOSYSTEMS
This section builds on recommendations from  existi ng l aws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Alo ha+ Challenge, Forest Action Plan, 
Hawai‘i Coral Reef Strategy, Holomua: Mari ne 30 x30 Pl an, and the Ocean 
Resour ces Management Plan.  Recommendations were als o identif ied 
through state, county, stakeholder, and publ ic input.
 106
PRESERVE THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
Support long-t erm hydrologic monitoring programs to 
understand and document changes in watershed productivity 
that result fro m improved watershed management activities.
Increase research and monitoring of new emerging watershed 
and forest threats and develop approaches and management 
tools for controlling and reducing impacts on watersheds w here 
f
ound.
Identify specific areas, regions, or watersheds to target for 
concentrated efforts and collaborate on setting priority areas
 for 
watershed management with key federal, state, and c ounty 
agency partners, landowners, and stakeholders.
Support research on the effects of climate change on 
watersheds and water resources in Hawai‘i.
Improve collaboration among county water departments, the 
CZM Program, DOH, EPA, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
(USFWS), DAR, and NRCS, which have overlapping 
priorities, to jointly set future priorities, to strategically advance 
projects f or competitive grant opportunities at the local and 
national
 watershed-scale conservation programs, and to 
maximize
 the amount of watershed acreage being protected 
and the c onservation benefits realized.
Improve methods for targeting and communicating with 
communities and the public about the importance of w atershed 
management, the threats to Hawai‘i's forests, a nd the 
community's role and contribution to improving
 management of 
watersheds locally and across the state.
Improve monitoring, data collection, and information sharing 
between the watershed partnerships, various private 
and public land management programs, and the ISCs to 
consolidate and collect comparable data regarding watershed 
and forest health, location of invasive species, management 
actions being taken, and impacts of land management a ctivities 
on water quality and quantity. 
Continue to implement non-point source water pollution 
management strategies to restore impaired waters and protect 
high quality waters from non-point source pollution.Continue to fun d, manage, prote ct, and 
improve Hawai‘i's natural resources against 
climate hazards.
Identify the ade quate level of  hydrologic 
and climatic d ata collection needed 
statewide to e nable effective decision-
making about water security.
Improve recharge estimates t o include the 
best available  information on climate 
change impacts. 
Improve estimat es of stream flo w 
characteristics, particularly during low-flow 
conditions. 
Understand the  impacts of native vs. non-
native plant species on water resources 
and watersheds by su pporting research 
and long-term hydrologic monit oring 
programs. 
Construct new d eep monitoring wells in 
critical aquifers to gather and utilize dat a to 
identify impacts from pumpage, climate, 
and land use changes; verify fresh water 
sustainable yie lds; and monit or recharge 
trends. 
Reduce invasive species impacts through 
implementing Hawai‘i Interage ncy 
Biosecurity Plan .Restore and co nserve native forest 
species and ecosystems by using 
native species where possible and 
discouraging the use of potentially 
invasive species. 
Ensure that local and statewide climate 
change and drought plans, policy, and 
initiatives address wildfire. 
Monitor resource vulnerability to 
climate change through improved data 
collection and refinement of models 
that are specific to Hawai‘i.
Investigate and pursue opportunities 
for obtaining certification of  sustainable 
production and harvest p ractices for 
common market species. 
Complete comprehensive management 
plans for all state forest reserves. STRATEGY 35
Protect and manage watershedsSTRATEGY 36
Continue to adopt strategies 
that protect land-based 
natural resourcesSTRATEGY 37
Conserve working forest 
landscapes, protect 
forests from harm, and 
enhance public benefits 
from trees and forestsNATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION 
This section builds on recommendations from existing la ws, policies, and strategic action plans, including the 
Forest Action Plan, Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority Strategic Plan, 
Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper, and the Water Resources 
Protection Plan.  Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
Haw ai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    107
Photo Courtesy: State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i Tourism Authority2021–2030 Focus Area
PERPET U
ATE TRADITIONAL 
ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE AND VALUES
Foster opportunities to recommit to 
traditional practices and principles as 
well as transmit and generate new 
cultural knowledge and practices to 
inform sustainability strategies.
Incorporate Native Hawaiian and 
Traditional Ecological Knowledge and 
practices in
 the planning for Hawai‘i's 
sustainability and the impacts of 
climate change.
Continue to require certain board a nd 
commission members to attend a n 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs-sponsored 
training course to ensure i ndividuals 
are familiar
 with their l egal 
responsibilities regarding Native 
Hawaiian rights and the public trust 
doctrine.
Prepare more Native Hawaiians to 
assume leadership roles within the 
community and our institutions. 
Elevate the position of Hawaiian 
cultural experts to develop standards 
and practices.
Support Native
 Hawaiian and other 
cultural festivals and events
 that 
perpetuate Hawai‘i's island culture and 
communities. 
Support programs that help
 to 
revitalize and  normalize ‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i. STRATEGY 38
Ground climate and 
sustainability strategies 
in our cultural 
foundationThis section builds on recommendations from  existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans.   Re com mendat ions were 
also identified through state, county, stakeholder , an d public inp ut. 
 108‘A‘O HE HANA NUI KE ALU ‘IA 
No task is too big when done togethe r by all
The disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 global pandemic created space to reflect on Hawai‘i's values, 
consider what makes Hawai‘i unique and resilient, and recognize some of the fault lines in our communities that 
make us vulnerable to shocks and stressors.  At the tim e of the development of this plan, the COVID-19 global 
pandemic looms large.  Recovery from the COVID-19 global  pandemic is both an enormous challenge and a once-
in-a generation opportunity to rethink what was considered unchangeable.  We can choose to innovate, to do 
things differently, to re-focus on the values and culture we want to perpetuate. 
Climate change will bring new challenges that Hawai‘i has not yet seen.  We will increasingly experience shocks 
and stressors due to climate change.  There is good information about the projected changes and many of the 
strategies recommended in this plan will  help increase the Hawai‘i's resilience. 
This decade is a critical time to act.
Hawai‘i has already made significant sustainability com mitments through laws, policies, and plans that reflec t 
our values.  For the first time, this updated plan presents these commitm ents as a collective whole and aligned 
with the SDGs.  There is much work yet to be done to achieve these sustainability goals and commitments. 
The strategies identified in this plan point to what is urgent to undertake over this decade. 
A successful Decade of Action in Hawai‘i  will require :
Strat egic prioritization of 
limited resources.  
When prioritizing investments, funders 
should evaluate whether the 
activity contributes to one or more SDGs, 
is ready for action (e.g., 
existing targets, policies, plans, 
and/or partnerships are in place), 
addresses an urgent need, directly 
or indirectly addresses equity, 
explicitly protects our values, and 
will benefit local residents. 
Development of metrics to define 
success and then enable measurement 
and tracking of our progress. 
Defined endpoints and metrics for success 
will make it possible to measure 
advancements and identify where gaps 
remain; in some cases, targets and metrics 
have already been identified whereas a 
collective vision will need to be developed 
in other cases.Identification and 
commi tment from lead 
and supporting actors. 
There are opportunities for 
ever yone (elected officials, state 
agencies, counties, community 
organizations, the private sector, 
students, and residents) to lead 
or supp ort efforts to achieve 
these strategies; collaboration 
will be essential.
A realistic timeline to work toward. 
We can get m oving  quickly on some 
strategies, for which sustained efforts will 
be necessary to make steady, incremental 
process.  Othe rs may require significant 
upfront planning, buy-in from disparate 
par ties, and securing financial support 
before a swift and dramatic change can be 
made.  Establishing and clear and feasible 
timeli ne that sets out incremental 
milestones will ensure greater success. 
Let's work together toward an equitable, resilient, and s ustainable Hawai‘i.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    109
REFERENCES 
AAUW . (2020). The Fight for Pay Equity: A State Road Map for Ha-
wai‘i, 2020 Update.  https:/ /ww3.aauw.org/ aauw_check/pdf_download/
show_pdf.php?file=Gender_Pay_Gap_Hawaii   
Aldrich, Daniel & Meyer, Michelle. (2015). Social Capital and Com-
munity Resilience. American Behavioral Scientist . 59. 254-269. 
10.1177/0002764214550299. https:/ /www.researchgate.net/publica-
tion/281601274_Social_Capital_and_Community_Resilience 
American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy (ACEEE). (2020). 
2020 State Energy Efficiency Scorecard . https:/ /www.aceee.org/
sites/default/files/pdfs/ACEEE_ScrSht20_Hawaii.pdf  
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). (2019). 2019 Hawai‘i 
Infrastructure Report Card . https:/ /www.infrastructurereportcard.
org/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/ASCE-24199_Full-REPORT-2019-FI-
NAL.pdf 
Arizona State University (ASU) Office of Sex Trafficking Intervention and 
The Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women. (2019). Sex Traf -
ficking in Hawai‘i – The Stories of Survivors.  https:/ /governor.hawaii.
gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Executive-Summary-Part-II-Sex-Traf-
ficking-in-Hawaii-.pdf 
Associated Press. (2020, September 18). Hawai‘i's Unemployment 
Rate Ties for Third-Worst in Nation . https:/ /www.usnews.com/news/
best-states/hawaii/ articles/2020-09-18/hawaiis-unemployment-rate-
ties-for-third-worst-in-nation 
Brace, Andrea M., Todd W . Moore, and Todd L. Matthews. (2020). The 
Relationship Between Food Deserts, Farmers‘ Markets, and Food 
Assistance Programs in Hawai‘i Census Tracts.  https:/ /hawaiijour-
nalhealth.org/past_issues/hjhsw7902_0036.pdf
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2018, November 8). 
Unemployment rate lowest in Hawaii, highest in Alaska, in Octo-
ber 2018.  https:/ /www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2018/unemployment-rate-low-
est-in-hawaii-highest-in-alaska-in-october-2018.htm 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2021). Economy at 
a Glance: Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.bls.gov/eag/eag.hi.htm 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2021, March 23). 
Alternative Measures of Labor Underutilization in Hawaii – 
2020.  https:/ /www.bls.gov/regions/west/news-release/laborunderutili-
zation_hawaii.htm 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. (2021, March 5). Whole 
School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC).  https:/ /www.cdc.
gov/healthyschools/wscc/index.htm Cerizo, Kehaulani. (2021, March 11). 
Over half of eligible residents on 
Lanai, Molokai vaccinated. The Maui News.  https:/ /www.mauinews.
com/news/local-news/2021/03/over-half-of-eligible-residents-on-la-
nai-molokai-vaccinated/ 
City and County of Honolulu. (2002). General Plan: Objectives and 
Policies.  http:/ /www.honoluludpp.org/Portals/0/pdfs/planning/gener-
alplan/GPReport.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2018). O‘ahu General Plan Review Report 2010-2017. http://www.
honoluludpp.org/Portals/0/pdfs/planning/generalplan/GPUpdate/
GP%20Review%20Report_web.pdf
City and County of Honolulu. (2019). TOD Honolulu.  http:/ /www.hono-
lulu.gov/tod City and County of Honolulu. (2020). Climate Adaptation Design 
Principles for Urban Development . http:/ /www.honolulu.gov/rep/
site/dpptod/climate_docs/Climate_Adaptation_Design_Principles.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu. (n.d.). Revised Ordinances of Honolulu, 
Chapter 24: Development Plans. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/ocs/
roh/193-site-ocs-cat/977-roh-chapter-24.html   
City and County of Honolulu. (n.d.). Revised Ordinances of Honolulu, 
Chapter 30: Water Management. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/rep/site/
ocs/roh/ROH_Chapter_30_.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply (BWS). (2016). 2016 
Water Master Plan. https:/ /boardofwatersupply.com/bws/media/files/
water-master-plan-final-2016-10.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2015). Making Honolulu an Age-Friendly City: Action Plan. http:/ /
agefriendlyhonolulu.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/Honolu-lu_Age-
Friendly_City_Action_Plan_2015.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2020, March 3). Brownfields Assistance. http:/ /www.honolulu.gov/
tod/dpp-tod-resources/brownfields-assistance.html#:~:text=Honolu-lu%
20has%20received%20two%20grants,cleanup%20for%20redevelop-
ment%20to%20occur 
Coleman-Jensen, Alisha, Matthew P. Rabbitt, Christian A. Gregory, and 
Anita Singh. (2020). Household Food Security in the United States 
in 2019. ERR-275, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Re-
search Service. https:/ /www.ers.usda.gov/webdocs/
publications/99282/err-275.pdf ?v=6835.6 
County of Hawai‘i. (2019). Resolution 322-19: Resolution Declaring a 
Hawai‘i County Climate Emergency and Requesting Regional 
Collaboration Towards an Immediate Just Transition and Emer-
gency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate. http:/ /records. 
hawaiicounty.gov/weblink/DocView.aspx?dbid=0&id=985350&cr=1  
County of Hawai‘i. (2020). County of Hawai‘i Community Develop-
ment Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Action Plan. 
https:/ /recovery.hawaiicounty.gov/Home/ShowDocument?id=302592
County of Kaua‘i. (2012). Kaua‘i Multimodal Land Transportation 
Plan. http:/ /plankauai.com/wp-content/uploads/Kauai-MLTP-Fi-
nal-compressed.pdf
County of Maui. (2019). Resolution No. 19-209: Acknowledging 
a Climate Emergency and Committing to an Immediate Just 
Transition and Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe 
Climate. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/DocumentCenter/View/120651/
Reso-19-209
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2012). Maui 
Island Plan: General Plan 2030. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/1503/
Maui-Island-Plan
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2016). Lā-
na‘i Community Plan. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/
DocumentCenter/View/105983/2016-Lanai-Community-Plan-?bidId= 
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2018). 
Molo-ka‘i Island Community Plan. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/
Document-Center/View/8220/Molokai-Community-Plan-2018?bidId=
County Water Use and Development Plans. https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/
cwrm/planning/hiwaterplan/countyplans/
 110Creamer, Beverly. (2019a, April 2). Health in Hawai‘i: Good News, But 
Not for Everyone. Part 1: The Challenge. Hawai‘i Business Magazine. 
https:/ /www.hawaiibusiness.com/change-report-health/#part1. 
Creamer, Beverly. (2019b, April 2). Health in Hawai‘i: Good News, But Not 
for Everyone. Part 2: We‘re No. 1. Hawai‘i Business Magazine. https:/ /
www.hawaiibusiness.com/change-report-health/#part2 . 
Earthjustice (2013). Petition to Amend an Instream Flow Standard. 
https:/ /e963f10d-efd1-4673-b16c-54490dc7911f.filesusr.com/ugd/5f73cf_  
fe919461043a471a873a85cbbf756f1a.pdf 
Energy Information Administration (EIA). (2019). State Energy Data Sys-
tem. https:/ /www.eia.gov/state/?sid=HI 
Environmental Protection Agency. (2017). Healthy Benefits of Green 
Infrastructure in Communities. https:/ /www.epa.gov/sites/production/
files/2017-11/documents/
greeninfrastructure_healthy_communities_factsheet. pdf 
Environmental Protection Agency. (n.d.). Links and Resources About Food 
Recovery in Honolulu. https:/ /www.epa.gov/sustainable-management-food/
links-and-resources-about-food-recovery-honolulu 
Environmental Protection Agency. (2020). Understanding Global Warming 
Potentials. https:/ /www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/understanding-global-warm-
ing-potentials#Learn%20why 
Fernandes, Megan. (2019). Hawai‘i ranks among most energy efficient 
states in the US, report says. https:/ /www.bizjournals.com/pacific/
news/2019/10/01/hawaii-ranks-among-most-energy-efficient-states-in.html
Friends of Hanauma Bay. (2021). Restoration: Coral Restoration. http:/ /
www.friendsofhanaumabay.org/restoration/ 
Grossman, Dakota (2021, April 10). Health centers look to fill gaps in 
vaccination efforts. The Maui News. https:/ /www.mauinews.com/news/
local-news/2021/04/health-centers-look-to-fill-gaps-in-vaccination-efforts/  
Hastings, Z., Ticktin, T., Botelho, M., Reppun, N., Kukea Shultz, K., Wong, M., ... 
& Bremer, L. (2020). Integrating co  production and functional trait ap-
proaches for inclusive and scalable restoration solutions. Conservation 
Science and Practice.  https: //www.researchgate.net/publication/342932510_ 
Integrating_co-production_and_functional_trait_approaches_for_inclusive_ 
and_scalable_restoration_solutions 
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships (HAWP). (2021a). About Us. 
http: //hawp.org /about-us/
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021b).  History.  http: //hawp.  
org /about-us/history/
H
awai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021c). What is a Water-
shed?  http: //hawp.org/what-is-a-watershed/
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021d). Why Watersheds 
Mat ter.  http: //hawp.org/why-watersheds-matter/
Hawai‘i Community Foundation, Hawai‘i Fresh Water Initiative. (2015). A 
Blueprint for Action: Water Security for an Uncertain Future, 2016-
2018 . https: //www.hawaiicommunityfoundation.org/file/cat/Fresh_Water_ 
Blueprin
t_FINAL_062215_small.pdf
Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance. (2010). Hawaiian Culture and Conserva-
tion in Hawai‘i.  https: //www.Hawaiiconservation.org/wp-content/uploads/
Culturally-Grounded-Conservation.pdf 
Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance. (2021, March 3). Addressing Threats . https: //
www.hawaiiconservation.org/our-approach /addressing-threats/
H
awai‘i Green Growth. (2020). Aloha+ Challenge. https: //alohachallenge.  
hawaii.gov/Hawai‘i Revised Statutes,  Objectives and policies for facility systems—in 
general, §226-14 (1986).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_
Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0014.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – solid 
and liquid wastes, §226-15 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0015.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – water, 
§226-16 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0016.htm
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—land-based, shoreline, and marine resources, §226-11 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0011.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—land, air, and water, §226-13 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0013.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—scenic, natural beauty, and historic resources, §226-12 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0012.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—culture, §226-25 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0025.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—education, §226-21 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0021.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—individual rights and personal well-being, §226-24 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0024.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—social services, §226-22 (1990). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0022.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Establishment of an office paper and other materials 
recovery program, §342G-45 (1991).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342G/HRS_0342G-0045.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Goals for recycled product procurement, §342G-
41 (1991). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342G/HRS_0342G-0041.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – telecom-
munications, §226-18-5 (1994). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0018_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – trans-
portation, §226-17 (1994). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0017 .htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy efficiency and environmental standards 
for state facilities, motor vehicles, and transportation fuel, § 196-9 (2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol03_ch0121-0200d/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0009.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i renewable hydrogen program, §196-10 
(2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0010.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, State support for achieving alternate fuels standards, 
§196-42 (2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrsarchive/hrs2006/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0042.HTM
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy-efficiency portfolio standards, §269-96 
(2009).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0096.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Specific research and promotional functions of the 
department, §201-3 (2009). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0201/HRS_0201-0003.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Priority guidelines and principles to promote 
sustainability, §226-108 (2011). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0108.htm 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    111
REFERENCES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Climate Change and Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines, §226-109 (2012). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0109.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Employment Practices, Chapter 378 (2013). 
https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol07_Ch0346-0398/HRS0378/ 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i climate change mitigation and adapta-
tion commission; general functions, duties, and powers, §225P-3 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HR-S0225P/HRS_0225P-0003.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—in general, 
§226-6 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0006.htm
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—informa-
tion industry, §226-10.5 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0010_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—potential 
growth and innovative activities, §226-10 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0010.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advancement—health, §226-20 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0020.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy-- agricul-
ture, §226-7 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0007 .htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – 
energy, §226-18 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0018.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Renewable portfolio standards, §269-92 
(2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0092.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, University of Hawai‘i; net-zero energy goal, 
§304A-119 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0304A/HRS_0304A-0119.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Sustainable Schools Initiative, §302A-1510 
(2016).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0302A/HRS_0302A-1510.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Affordable Housing, §226-106 (2017). https:/ /
www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0106.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i Water Plan, §174C-31 (g) (6) (2017).  
https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0174C/HRS_0174C-0031.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural 
advancement—housing, §226-19  (2017). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0019.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target, §225P-5 
(2018).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol04_ch0201-0257/HRS0225P/HRS_0225P-0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy retrofit and performance contracting for 
public utilities, §36-41 (2019). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol01_ch0001-0042f/HRS0036/HRS_0036-0041.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Coal power purchase agreements; prohibited, 
§269-48 (2020).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0048.htmHawai‘i Revised Statutes, Office of planning, establishment; responsibili-ties, §225M-2 (2020).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0225M/HRS_0225M-0002.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Renewable energy technologies; income tax 
credit §235-12.5 (2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0235/HRS_0235-0012_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Use of coal for electricity generation, §342B-36 
(2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342B/HRS_0342B-0036.htm  
Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women. (2020). Building 
Bridges Not Walking on Backs: A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for COVID-19. https:/ /humanservices.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-loads/2020/04/4.13.20-Final-Cover-D2-Feminist-Economic-Recov-ery-D1.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2005, July 1). Act 151 HB1342 
HD2 SD1 CD1, A bill for an Act Relating to State Planning. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/splsession2005/bills/sb1592_cd1_.htm 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2011, June 2). Act 8 HB1592 
HD1 SD2 CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Telecommunications. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dcca/broadband/ act-151/Act_151.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2014). SCR No. 69 SD1. Senate 
Concurrent Resolution Endorsing and Supporting the Aloha+ Challenge. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2014/bills/SCR69_SD1_.pdf  
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2017 , June 6). SB559 SD1 HD2 
CD1, An Act Relating to Climate Change. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2017/bills/GM1132_.PDF 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2018, July 5). Act 132 (18) 
SB2567 HD2 SD2 CD1, An Act Relating to Cesspools. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/wastewater/files/2018/09/Act132.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2019, June 26). SB375 SD2 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Agriculture. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2019/bills/GM1253_.PDF
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). SB512 SD2 HD1 CD1, 
A Bill for an Act Relating to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Incentives. 29-Apr-2021. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/SB512_CD1_.htm. 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). HB552 SD2 HD1 CD1, 
A Bill for an Act Relating to the Environment. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB552_CD1_.htm 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
SB767 SD2 HD2, A 
Bill for an Act Relating to the Farm to School Program.  https:/ /www.
capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB767_SD2_.htm Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
SB817 SD2 HD2, A 
Bill for an Act Relating to Agriculture . https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/
session2021/bills/HB817_SD2_.pdfHawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
HB1149 SD2 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Land Use.  https:/ /www.capitol.
hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB1149_CD1_.pdf Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
HB1318 SD1 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Sustainability.  https:/ /www.capitol.
hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB1318_CD1_.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). SCR No. 44 SD1 HD1. 
Senate Concurrent Resolution Declaring a Climate Emergency and Re-questing Statewide Collaboration Toward an Immediate Just Transition and Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate.  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/SCR44_HD1_.pdf 
 112Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA). (2020). Area Health 
Reso urces File s. https: //data.hrsa.gov/topics/health-workforce /ahrf  
Health Resources & Services Administration. (2021). Find a Health Center. 
https: //findahealthcenter.hrsa.gov/ 
Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, Inc. (HIMSS). 
(2018, January 18). Lāna‘i Community Health Center Selected as 2017 HIMSS 
Community Health Davies Award Recipien t. https: //www.himss.org/news/im-
proving-community-health-outcomes-through-telehealth 
Henkin, David. (2017 , April 18). Flows Restored to Waimea River and ‘Grand 
Canyon of the Pacific. ' Earthjustice. https:/ /earthjustice.org/news/press/2017/
flows-restored-to-waimea-river-and-grand-canyon-of-the-pacific  
Hawai‘i News Now (HNN) Staff. (2018, November 8). Stretch of Kūhiō Hwy. 
damaged by floods to remain closed until 2019. Hawai‘i News Now. https: //www. 
hawaiinewsnow.com/2018/11/08/stretch-kuhio-hwy-damaged-by-fl oods-re-
main-closed-till/ 
Hofschneider, Anita. (2021). Hawai‘i Residents from COFA Nations Can Now 
Apply for Medicaid. https: //www.civilbeat.org/2021/01/hawaii-residents-from-
cofa-nations-can-now-apply-for-medicaid/ 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) (2018). Global Warming of 
1.5°C. An IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways, in 
the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, 
sustainable development, and efforts to eradicate poverty . [Masson-Delmotte, 
V., P. Zhai, H.-O. Pörtner, D. Roberts, J. Skea, P.R. Shukla, A. Pir ani, W. Moufou-
ma-Okia, C. Péan, R. Pidcock, S. Connors, J.B.R. Matthews, Y. Chen, X. Zhou, 
M.I. Gomis, E. Lonnoy, T. Maycock, M. Tignor, and T. Water field (eds.)]. https: //
www.ipcc.ch/sr15/  
International Energy Agency (IEA). (2021).  Net Zero by 2050: A Roadmap for 
the Global Energy Sector. https: //iea.blob.core.windows.net /assets/4719e321-
6d3d-41a2-bd6b-461ad2f850a8/NetZeroby2050-ARoadmapfortheGlobalEner-
gySector.pdf  
International Volcanic Health Hazard Network (IVHHN), Hawai‘i State De-
partment of Health, USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, Hawai‘i County Civil 
Defense, National Park Service, County of  Hawai‘i, CSA V, NOAA, and the USDA 
Farm Service Agency. (2021). Hawai‘i Interagency Vog Information Dashboard . 
https: //vog.ivhhn.org/ 
Jackson, C. Kirabo, Johnson, Rucker C., and Persico, Claudia. (2016). The E ffects 
of School Spending on Educational and Economic Outcomes: Evidence from 
School Finance Reforms. The Quarterly Journal of Economics , Volume 131, 
Issue 1, February 2016, Pages 157–218. https: //doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjv036 
KFF . (2019). KFF analysis of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC)'s 2013-2019 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveil-
lance System (BRFSS) . https: //www.k ff.org/other/state-indicator/
percent-of-adults-reporting-not-seeing-a-doctor-in-the-past-12-
months-because-of-cost-by-raceethnicity/?currentTimeframe=0&se-
lectedRows=%7B%22states%22:%7B%22hawaii%22:%7B%7D%7D%7D&sort-
Model=%7B%22colId%22:%22Location%22,%22sort%22:%22asc%22%7D 
KITV Web Staff. (2021, March 12). 12 Hawai‘i health care centers chosen to 
provide vaccines to underserved communities. KIT V. https: //www.kitv.com/
story/43490305/12-hawaii-health-care-centers-chosen-to-provide-vac-
cines-to-underserved-communities 
Knight Foundation. (2010). Soul of the Community 2010 Overall Findings. 
https: //knightfoundation.org/sotc/overall-findings/ 
Ko‘olau Mountains Watershed Partnership. (2021). Our Partners. http: //
koolauwatershed.org/partners/.  
Kotrba, R. (2019, December 14). Pacific Biodiesel and Hamakua Energy 
Sign Contract – Oct. 2019. Biodiesel Magazine. https:/ /www.biodiesel. com/
pacific-biodiesel-and-hamakua-energy-sign-contract-oct-2019/ . 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center. (2020). Annual Report 2019. 
https: //lanaihealth.org/wp-content/uploads/2019-Annual-Report-RE-
VISED-LCHC-With-Covers.pdf 
Leeward Haleakalā Watershed Restoration Partnership. (2018). The Partner-
ship.  https:/ /www.lhwrp.org/whoarewe.Loke, Matthew K. and James Mak. ( 2019). Reducing Food Waste in Ha wai‘i: A 
Primer.  https:/ /gms.ctahr.hawaii.edu/gs/handler/getmedia.ashx-
?moid=65942&dt=3&g=12
Mauna Kea Watershed Alliance. (2021). Our Partners. https:/ /maunakeawater-
shed.org/our-partners/.
McCoy, D., McManus, M.A., Kotubetey, K., Kawelo, A.H., Young, C., D‘Andrea, B., et 
al. (2017). Large-scale climatic effects on traditional Hawaiian fishpond 
aquaculture. PLoS ONE 12(11): e0187951. https:/ /doi.org/10.1371/journal. 
pone.0187951 
Mediation Agreement for the Waimea Watershed Area. (2017 , April 18). https:/ /
dhhl.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/20170418_Agreement.pdf  
Meyers, Talya. (2020, November 10). On a Small Hawaiian Island, Covid-19—
Finally—Rears Its Head. Direct Relief.  https:/ /www.directrelief.org/2020/11/on-
a-small-hawaiian-island-covid-19-finally-rears-its-head/  
Miyashima, Mika. (2017 , December 12). Mayors pledge 100% ground trans-
portation powered by renewable energy by 2045.  KITV . https:/ /www.kitv.com/
story/37053289/mayors-pledge-100-ground-transportation-powered-by-re-
newable-energy-by-2045 
Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. (2021). Lanikeha Community Center. 
https:/ /www.molokaihfa.com/lanikeha-community-center 
National Park Service. (2018). 2018 Eruption and Summit Collapse. https:/ /
www.nps.gov/havo/learn/nature/2018-eruption.htm 
National Women's Law Center. (NWLC) (2021). Hawai‘i.  https:/ /nwlc.org/state/
hawaii/
Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA). (2018). Haumea—Transforming the 
Health of Native Hawaiian Women and Empowering Wahine Well-being.  
https:/ /19of32x2yl33s8o4xza0gf14-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/up-
loads/OHA-Womens-Health-Executive-Summary-1.pdf
‘Ōlelo No‘eau: Hawaiian Proverbs & Poetical Sayings. (1983). Collected, trans-
lated, and annotated by Mary Kawena Pukui, Bishop Museum Press, Honolulu, 
Hawai‘i. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2017). Hawaii's Largest Liquid Biofuel Crop Farm. 20 April 
2017. https:/ /www.biodiesel.com/hawaiis-largest-biofuel-crop/. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2019a). About Pacific Biodiesel. https:/ /www.biodiesel.com/
about-us/. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2019b). Pacific Biodiesel Logistics. https:/ /www.biodiesel. com/
logistics/. 
Pacific Business News (2019c). Pacific Biodiesel to supply Hamakua plant with 
biodiesel. https:/ /www.bizjournals.com/pacific/news/2019/11/01/pacific-bio-
diesel-to-supply-hamakua-plant-with.html 
Pacific Biodiesel (2021). Pacific Biodiesel Offers Insight for Hawaii's Energy 
Future. Pacific Biodiesel Quarterly News and Updates, February 2021. https:/ /
myemail.constantcontact.com/News-and-Updates-from-Pacific-Biodiesel.  html?
soid=1102919617057&aid=vT03_4xqRl8. 
Pactol, Catherine Cluett (2018). Lanikeha Re-Opens with a Facelift. The Moloka‘i 
Dispatch, 25 July 2018. https:/ /themolokaidispatch.com/lanikeha-re-opens-with-
a-facelift/ 
Penniman, T. (2018). Flower Power, Maui Nō Ka ‘Oi Magazine. https:/ /www. 
mauimagazine.net/flower-power/. 
Pruitt, A. S., Zhang, W ., Wu, Y., Bird, O., Nakamura, B. & Barile, J. P. (2021). 
Addressing Hunger & Food Insecurity among Hawai‘i's Families. Prepared for the 
College of Social Sciences, UH Mānoa and First Insurance Company of Hawai‘i, 
Honolulu, H.I. https:/ /drive.google.com/file/d/1e3MkhACuaFYxULdsf-
wx56Jp1psCMAm4t/view
Restaurants for Renewables. (n.d.). Restaurants 4 Renewables: From Cooking Oil 
to Clean Energy. https:/ /restaurants4renewables.com/
Selmants, P.C., Giardina, C.P., Jacobi, J.D., and Zhu, Zhiliang (eds.). (2017). 
Baseline and projected future carbon storage and carbon fluxes in ecosystems of 
Hawai‘i: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1834. https:/ /doi. org/10.3133/
pp1834
Serota, Nathan. (2020, August 28). Research chronicles improved conditions at 
Hanauma Bay during closure. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/cms-csd-menu/site-csd-
sitearticles/1305-site-csd-news-2020-cat/39289-08-28-20-research-chronicles-
improved-conditions-at-hanauma-bay-during-closure.html  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    113
REFERENCES 
Severino, Sarah J.L., Rodgers, Ku‘ulei S., Stender, Yuko, and Stefanak, 
Mathew. (2020). Hanauma Bay Biological Carrying Capacity Survey: 2019-
20 2nd Annual Report. Prepared for the City and County of Honolulu and 
the Hawai‘i Board of Land and Natural Resources. http: //www.honolulu.gov/
rep/site/dpr/hanaumabay_docs/Hanauma_Bay_Carrying_Capacity_Re-
port_August_2020.pdf  
Sproat, D. Kapua‘ala. (2009). Ola I Ka Wai: A Legal Primer for Water Use 
and Management in Hawai‘i. Center for Excellence in Native Hawaiian Law. 
University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa. https: //www.law.hawaii.edu/sites/www.law.  
ha
waii.edu/files/content/Programs%2CClinics%2CInstitutes/Ola%20i%20  
ka%20Wai%20Final.pdf 
Star-Advertiser Sta ff. (2020, December 2). Hanauma Bay reopens following 
8-month COVID-19 closure. Star Advertiser. https: //www.staradvertiser. 
com/2020/12/02/breaking-news/hanauma-bay-reopens-following-8-
month-covid-19-closure/
State Foundation on Culture and the Arts (SFCA). (2000). Moloka‘i in 
History, A Guide to the Resources. Strazar, M.D. (ed.). http: //sfca.hawaii.gov/
wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Molokai2000_SFCA1.pdf
State of Hawai‘i. (2019). Housing Is Healthcare. https: //ltgov.hawaii.gov/
wp-content/uploads/2019/10/HIH_Brochure_Final_Revised.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission (HCRC). (2020). 2019-2020 An-
nual Report. https: //labor.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/HCRC-
2019-2020-Annual-Report.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Clean Energy Initiative. (2020). About the Hawai‘i 
Clean Energy Initiative. ht tp://www.Hawai ‘ icleanenergyinitiative.org/
about-the-Hawai‘i-clean-energy-initiative/ 
State of Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission. 
(2017). Hawai‘i Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report. Pre-
pared by the State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, 
Office of Conservation and Coastal Lands. https: //climateadaptation.hawaii. 
gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/SLR-Report_Dec201 7.pdf 
Sta
te of Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commis-
sion. (2021). Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change 
in Hawai‘i Working Paper. https: //climate.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-
loads/2021/04/CRHI-Working-Paper-V5.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management (CWRM), 
Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2013). Hawai‘i Water Conser-
vation Plan. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/hwcp2013.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management, Department 
of Land and Natural Resources. (2019). Hawai‘i Water Plan: Water Resource 
Protection Plan, 2019 Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/
wrpp2019update/WRPP_ALL_20190 7.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management r, Depart-
ment of Land and Natural Resources. (2020). State Water Projects Plan 
Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/swpp2020.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management, Department 
of Land and Natural Resources. (2021). Hawai‘i Water Plan.  https: //dlnr.  
hawaii.gov/cwrm/planning/hiwaterplan/ 
State of Hawai‘i Constitution. https: //lrb.hawaii.gov/constitution  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2016). Hawai‘i Interagency 
Biosecurity Plan: 2017-202 7. https: / /hdoa.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-
loads/2016/09/Hawaii-Interagency-Biosecurity-Plan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2019a). Agricultural Water Use 
and Development Plan Update. https: / /files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/
awudp2019update/AWUDP_2019.pdf  State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2019b). Report on the 
Strategic Plan to Double Local Food Production and Exports by 2030. 
https:/ /hdoa.  hawaii.gov/blog/main/reports-submitted-for-legislative-
session-2019/
at-tachment/doa-act-151-slh-2019-strategic-plan-
report-2019/
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism (DBEDT). (1998). Hawai‘i Climate Change Action Plan.  https:/ /plan-
ning.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/HawaiiActionPlan1998.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2016). Analyses and Proposal of Hawaii Amendments to the 2015 
International Energy Conservation Code. https:/ /energy.hawaii.gov/wp-
con-tent/uploads/2016/07/Analyses-and-Proposal-of-Amendments.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2019). Self-Sufficiency Income Standard Estimates for Hawai‘i 
2018. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/reports/self-sufficiency/
self-sufficiency_2018.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development & Tour-
ism. (2020a). County Social, Business and Economic Trends in Hawai‘i: 
1990 – 2019.  https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/data_reports/coun-
ty_report/county-trends-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism. (2020b). 2019 State of Hawai‘i Data Book. Section 24. https:/ /files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/databook/db2019/section24.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism. (2020c).  Hawai‘i's Economic Structure: An Analysis Using Industry 
Level Gross Domestic Product Data.  https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/economic/
files/2020/04/GDP_Report_Final_April2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2021a). Brain Drain: Characteristics of Hawai‘i-Born Adults on 
the U.S. Mainland. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/reports/Brain_ 
Drain_Hawaii_Born_Population.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2021b).  Phase III Hawai‘i Defense Economy (HDE) Action Plan . 
https:/ /defenseeconomy.hawaii.gov/wordpress/wp-content/up-
loads/2021/03/HDE_ActionPlan_12-11-2020.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation (HHFDC). 
(2017). The Hawai‘i State Plan: Housing Functional Plan.  https:/ /dbedt. 
hawaii.gov/hhfdc/files/2017/03/Housing_2017 .pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation. (2019). 
Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study, 2019. https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/hhfdc/
files/2020/01/FINAL-State_Hawaii-Housing-Planning-Study.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation. (2020).  
Consolidated Plan for Program Years 2020 through 2024: Annual Action 
Plan for Program Year 2020.  https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/hhfdc/
files/2020/09/ FINAL_5YR-CONPLAN-AAP_20200716.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education (DOE). (2019). Hawai‘i Department 
of Education Data Book: 2018 . https:/ /www.hawaiipublicschools.org/Re-
ports/2018HIDOEDatabook.pdf
State 
of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020a). 2030 Promise Plan.  
http:/ /www.hawaiipublicschools.org/DOE%20Forms/Advancing%20Edu-
cation/2030PromisePlan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020b).  ESSA Report Every 
Student Succeeds Act School Year 2018-19. https:/ /arch-prod-re-
ports-repository.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/essa/2019/999ESSARpt.pdf
 114State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020c). Hawai‘i Literacy Plan. 
https: //www.hawaiip20.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Hawaii-State-Liter-
acy-Plan_WEB.pdf   
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (n.d.). Wellness Guidelines. https: //
www.hawaiipublicschools.org/TeachingAndLearning/HealthAndNutrition/
WellnessGuidelines/Pages/home.aspx
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education and Board of Education (DOE-BOE). 
(2016).  Strategic Plan: 2017-2020.  https: //www.hawaiipublicschools.org/
VisionForSuccess/AdvancingEducation/StrategicPlan/Pages/home.aspx
State of Hawai‘i Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. (2011). Ho‘omaluō Ener-
gy Policy. https: //dhhl.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/DHHL-Ener-
gy-Policy.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. (2017). Historic Settle-
ment Reached in West Kaua‘i Waimea River Water Dispute . http: //dhhl.hawaii. 
gov/2017/05/05/historic-settlement-reached-in-west-kauai-waimea-river-
water-dispute/  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2013).  Hawai‘i Physical Activity and 
Nutrition Plan: 2013-2020. https: //health.hawaii.gov/physical-activity-nutri-
tion/files/2013/08/Hawaii-PAN-Plan-2013-2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2014). Hawai‘i Coordinated Chronic 
Disease Framework . https: //health.hawaii.gov/chronic-disease/files/2014/09/
CDFrameworkLR.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2016). Tobacco Control Strategic Plan, 
2016–2020. Honolulu, HI: Chronic Disease Prevention & Health Promotion 
Division, Tobacco Prevention and Education Program. https: //health.hawaii. 
gov/chronic-disease/files/2019/12/TPC-Strategic-Plan.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2017). Hawai‘i Sexual and Gender 
Minority Health Report . https: //health.hawaii.gov/surveillance/files/2017/05/
HawaiiSexualandGenderMinorityHealthReport.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2018). Good Food for All . https: //health. 
hawaii.gov/chronic-disease/files/2018/03/gffa-web.pdf   
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019a). Hawai‘i Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Report for 2016.  https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
files/2019/12/2016-Inventory_Final-Report_December2019-1.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019b). Water Quality Plan. Hawai‘i 
Department of Health. https: //health.Hawaii.gov/water/files/2019/03/FI-
NAL-DOH-Water-Quality-Plan-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019c). Water Reuse Task Force Report 
to the Thirtieth Legislatur e. https: //www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2019/bills/
DC246_.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2020). Healthy Hawai‘i 2020 – A Com-
munity Health Plan (State Health Improvement Plan). https: //health.hawaii.  
gov/opppd/ship/ 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2021a). Hawai‘i Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Report for 2017. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
files/2021/04/2017-Inventory_Final-Report_April-2021.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2021b). Clean Air Branch. 5 March 
2021. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Clean Water Branch. (2021c). Hawai‘i 
Nonpoint Source Management Plan: 2021-202 5. https: //health.hawaii.gov/
cwb/fi les/2021/02/2021-02-12-NPS-Plan-Public-Comment-Draft.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Office of Solid Waste Management 
(DOH-OSWM). (2020). Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report to 
the Thirty-First Legislatur e. https: //health.hawaii.gov/shwb/files/2021/01/
Final-PSRWG-Report-to-Leg.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Office of Solid Waste Management. 
(2021). Amended Annual Report to the Thirty-First Legislature State of Hawai‘i 
2021.  https: //health.hawaii.gov/shwb/files/2021/03/2021-OSWM-Annual-Re-
port-Amended.pdf State of Hawai‘i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. (2010). Ha -
wai‘i's Green Workforce: A Baseline Assessment. https: //dlir.state.hi.us/labor/
lmi/pdf/HawaiisGreenWorkforce_BaselineAssessment.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. (2021). Hawai‘i 
Green Jobs Initiative . https: //greenjobshawaii.hirenethawaii.com/vosnet/De-
fault.aspx 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2011). The Rain 
Follows the Forest: A Plan to Replenish Hawai‘i's Source of Water. https: //
dlnr.hawaii.gov/rain/files/2014/02/The-Rain-Follows-the-Forest.pdf#:~:-
text=The%20Rain%20Follows%20the%20Forest%20is%20the%20Depart-
ment%E2%80%99s,sources.%20The%20forests%20and%20their%20abili-
ty%20to%20capture
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2015). Hawai‘i's 
State Wildlife Action Plan . https: //dlnr.hawaii.gov/wildlife/fi les/2020/07/HI-
SWAP-2015-FINAL.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2017). Coral Bleaching Recovery Plan. Prepared by the University 
of Hawai‘i Social Science Research Institute. https: //dlnr.hawaii.gov/reefre-
sponse/files/2016/09/CoralBleachingRecoveryPlan_final_newDARlogo.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2020a).Coral Reef Strategy 2030. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. gov/
coralreefs/files/2020/08/Hawaii-Coral-Reef-Strategy-2030-Final.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2020b).Holomua: Marine 30x30.  https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/
files/2020/12/HolomuaMarine30x30_Roadmap_web.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of For-
estry and Wildlife. (2008). Strategic Plan for Hawai‘i's Natural Area Reserves 
System. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/ecosystems/files/2013/09/Strategic-Plan-
v2-4.  pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Forest-
ry and Wildlife. (2010). Hawai‘i Statewide Assessment of Forest Conditions and 
Trends: 2010. An Assessment of the State of Our ‘Aina.  https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/
forestry/files/2013/09/SWARS-Entire-Assessment-and-Strategy.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of For-
estry and Wildlife. (2016). Hawai‘i Forest Action Plan 2016. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. 
gov/forestry/files/2013/09/Hawaii-Forest-Action-Plan-2016-FINAL.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State 
Parks. (2018). Hā‘ena State Park Master Plan: Final Report. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. 
gov/dsp/files/2018/03/Haena-MP-FINAL.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation (HDOT), Airports Division and 
KYA Sustainability Studio. (2016). SustainableHNL Sustainable Management 
Plan . https:/ /airports.hawaii.gov/hnl/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2016/09/
sHNL-Sustainable-Management-Plan-20160809-PRINT.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Highways Division. (2019). 
Statewide Coastal Highway Program Report. https:/ /hidot.hawaii.gov/high-
ways/files/2019/09/State-of-Hawaii-Statewide-Coastal-Highway-Program-
Report_Final_2019.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Highways Division. (2021). 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action Plan.  https:/ /assets.adobe.com/
public/452ba422-871a-4549-5c95-184cfe2e6aec
State of Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency (HIEMA). (2018a). State 
of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation Plan. https:/ /dod.hawaii.gov/hiema/
files/2020/06/2018-State-HI-HMP-Update-100218.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency. (2018b, August 23). About 
Hurricane Evacuation Shelters in Hawai‘i. https:/ /dod.hawaii.gov/hiema/
about-hurricane-evacuation-shelters-in-hawaii/ 
State of Hawai‘i Office of the Auditor. (2008). Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan . https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/sustainability/
hawaii_2050_plan_final.pdf  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    115
REFERENCES 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of the Auditor. (2018). Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan – Ten Year Measurement Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov /auditor/Re-
ports/2018/2018H2050.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning. (2012). Increased Food Security 
and Self-Sufficiency Strategy. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
INCREASED_FOOD_SECURITY_AND_FOOD_SELF_SUFFICIENCY_ 
STRATEGY.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning. (2016).  Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehen-
sive Economic Development Strategy . https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
CEDS_2016_final.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of Planning. (2019). Feasibility and Implications of 
Establishing a Carbon Offset Program for the State of Hawai‘i . https: //files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/sustainability/feasibility_and_implications_of_estab-
lishing_a_carbon_o ffset_program_for_the_state_of_hawaii_finalweb.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of Planning (2019b). Feasibility and Implications 
of Managed Retreat Strategies for Vulnerable Coastal Areas in Hawai‘i.  
https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp /assessing_the_feasibility_and_ 
implications_of_managed_retreat_strategies_for_vulnerable_coastal_ar-
eas_in_hawaii.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning (2020). The Hawai‘i Ocean Resources 
Management Plan . https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp/
ormp_update_re-ports/2020_ormp_final.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning (2021). Hawai‘i Interagency Council for 
Transit-Oriented Development.  http:/ /planning.hawaii.gov/lud/state-tod/ 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and DBEDT. (2018). Affordable Rental 
Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
AffordableRentalHousingReport_10YearPlan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and DBEDT. (2020). State Transit-
Oriented Development (TOD) Planning and Implementation Project for the 
Island of O‘ahu. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/
lud/20200811_StateTOD-ProjectReport/State-TOD-PIP-
Proj_WebReport_202007 .pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Devel-
opment Corporation. (2018). Strategic Plan for Transit-Oriented Devel-
opment. Hawaii Interagency Council for Transit-Oriented Development.  
https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/lud/State-TOD-Strategic-
Plan_Dec-2017-Rev-Aug-2018_rev20190715_secured.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i State Energy Office. (2020).  Hawai‘i Energy Facts & 
Figures. https:/ /energy.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/HSEO_  
FactsAndFigures-2020.pdf
Hawai‘i State Energy Office (2021). 2020 Annual Report. https:/ /energy. 
hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/HSEO_2020_Annual_Report.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Tourism Authority (HTA). (2020a, January 29). Hawai‘i 
Visitor Statistics Released for 2019. https:/ /www.hawaiitourismauthority. 
org/media/4166/2020-01-29-hawaii-visitor-statistics-released-for-decem-
ber-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. (2020b). Strategic Plan: 2020-
2025.  https:/ /www.hawaiitourismauthority.org/media/4286/hta-strate-
gic-plan-2020-2025.pdf
Truesdale, J. (2021, March 1). This Program Helped Big Island Farmers and 
Families. Now It's Out of Cash, Civil Beat. https:/ /www.civilbeat.
org/2021/03/this-program-helped-big-island-farmers-and-families-now-
its-out-of-cash/. University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program and State of Hawai‘i 
Department of Land and Natural Resources and Office of Planning. (2020). 
Guidance for Addressing Sea Level Rise in Community Planning in Hawai‘i. 
Prepared with funding from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration Office for Coastal Management. https:/ /climate.hawaii.gov/wp-con-
tent/uploads/2020/10/Item-3-I-a-Guidance-for-Addressing-SLR-in-Com-
munity-Planning-in-HI-2.pdf 
University of Hawai‘i. (2015).  Hawai‘i Innovation Initiative.  https:/ /
www.hawaii.edu/innovation/ 
University of Hawai‘i. (2018). University of Hawai‘i Strategic Di-
rections 2015-2021. http:/ /blog.hawaii.edu/strategicdirections/
files/2018/10/SD2.0_Revisions_2018_Update-2.pdf  
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020, September 8). UH Mānoa work to 
tackle racism takes national spotlight. https:/ /www.Hawai‘i.edu/
news/2020/09/08/trht-at-pullias-lecture/
United Nations. (2021). 
The Sustainable Development Agenda. https:/ /
www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/development-agenda/
United Nations. (2021). 
Decade of Action. https:/ /www.un.org/sustain-
abledevelopment/decade-of-action/
United Nations Environment Programme. (2021).  International Good 
Practice Principles for Sustainable Infrastructure. https:/ /
wedocs.unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/34853/GPSI.pdf 
United States Geological Survey. (USGS) Hawaiian Volcano Observatory. 
(2021). Frequently Asked Questions About Volcanic Smog (vog). https:/ /
www.usgs.gov/observatories/hawaiian-volcano-observatory/frequently-
asked-questions-about-volcanic-smog-vog 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020a, July 19).  Leeward CC becomes UH's 
first net-zero campus. https:/ /www.hawaii.edu/news/2020/07/19/lee-
ward-first-uh-net-zero-campus/
 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020b, September 8).  UH Mānoa work 
to tackle racism takes national spotlight. https:/ /www.Hawaii.edu/
news/2020/09/08/trht-at-pullias-lecture/
University of Hawai‘i News. (2021, January 24).  UH Maui College 
achieves net-zero goal. https:/ /www.hawaii.edu/news/2021/01/24/uh-
maui-college-achieves-net-zero-goal/ 
USGCRP. (2018). Impacts, Risks, and Adaptation in the United States: 
Fourth National Climate Assessment, Volume II, Chapter 27: Hawai‘i and 
U.S.-Affiliated Pacific Islands [Reidmiller, D.R., C. W . Avery, D.R. Easterling, 
K.E. Kunkel, K.L.M. Lewis, T.K. Maycock, and B.C. Stewart (eds.)].  https:/ /
nca2018.globalchange.gov/chapter/front-matter-about/  
U.S. Census Bureau. (2011).  American Fact Finder: Profile of General 
Population and Housing Characteristics: 2010. 2010 Demographic 
Profile Data for Census Tract 316.01, Maui County, Hawai‘i.  https:/ /files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/census/Census_2010/demographic/demo_profile_ct_  
NI/2010dp_ct316.01.pdf 
U.S. Census Bureau. (2019a).  American Community Survey 
5-year estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for 
East Molokai CCD, Maui County, HI. http:/ /censusreporter.org/pro-
files/06000US1500990090-east-molokai-ccd-maui-county-hi/  
U.S. Census Bureau. (2019b). American Community Survey 
5-year estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for 
Kalawao CCD, Kalawao County, HI  http:/ /censusreporter.org/pro-
files/06000US1500590990-kalawao-ccd-kalawao-county-hi/
 116U.S. Census Bureau. (2019c). American Community Survey 5-year 
estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for West Moloka‘i CCD, 
Maui County, HI. http:/ /censusreporter.org/profiles/06000US1500993960-
west- molokai-ccd-maui-county-hi/ 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. (2017a). 
Census of Agriculture County Profile: 
Hawai‘i County, Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCen-
sus/2017/Online_Resources/County_Profiles/Hawaii/cp15001.pdf . 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. (2017b). Census of Agriculture State Profile: 
Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCensus/2017/Online_Re-
sources/County_Profiles/Hawaii/cp99015.pdf
.
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
Energy. (n.d.). Biodiesel Benefits and Considerations. Alternative Fuels Data 
Center. https:/ /afdc.energy.gov/fuels/biodiesel_benefits.html. 
U.S. Water Alliance. (2016). One Water Roadmap: The Sustainable Management 
of Life's Most Essential Resource. http:/ /uswateralliance.org/sites/uswateralli-
ance.org/files/publications/Roadmap%20FINAL.pdf 
Velasquez-Manoff, Moises. (2010, June 28). Want to Be Less Racist? Move to 
Hawai‘i. New York Times. https:/ /www.nytimes.com/2019/06/28/opinion/
sunday/racism-hawaii.html  
Wu, Nina. (2020, October 27). Lanai stay-at-home order begins today as officials 
try to contain outbreak. Star Advertiser. https:/ /www.staradvertiser. 
com/2020/10/27/hawaii-news/lanai-stay-at-home-order-begins-today-as-offi-
cials-try-to-contain-outbreak/ 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
Charting
 a Cou rse for the Decade of Action (2020–2030) 
June 2021
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Āina i ka Pono  
The Life
 of the Land is Perp etuated in Righteousness  
A 
publication of the Hawai‘i State Office of Planning, pursuant to Act 146, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019.

--- Text from PDF (https://hawaii2050.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/FINAL-Hawaii-2050-Sustainability-Plan-web-1.pdf) ---
Hawai‘i 2050
SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)
ABOUT THE VISUAL DESIGN,  by Stephanie Chang Design Ink: 
Ancestral wisdom continues to be a source of inspiration throughout. 
Our ancient water system, built and cultivated throughout ahupua‘a, was in graceful alignment with natural weather systems and human need; its design represents whole system health, everything in relationship to each other, kuleana. The Plan’s key image (seen here on this page) served as the root for resulting graphic elements which support and amplify the plan’s incredible content and ultimately, inspiration for your solutions. The Plan’s color system was inspired by artist Bernice Akamine’s brilliant color wheel, created using native plants to create Na- Waiho‘olu‘u Hawai‘i, colors that our kanaka
ku-puna grew, gathered, created, used, viewed, and enjoyed. Mahalo to
Kamaka‘aina Siepp of The Color Garden for sharing this ‘ike with me. Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)  
June 2021
A publication of the Hawai‘i State Office of  Planning, purs uant 
to Act 146, Session Laws of Ha wai‘i 2019.
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Āina i ka Pono  
The Life of the Land is Perpetuated in Righteousness  
This document was printed on recycled paper containing 
30% post-consumer recycled fiber.9 
10 
12 
18 
20 
22
26
30
34
38
42
46
50
54
58
62
66
70
74
80
84
88
92 
96
98
100
102
103
104
105
106
108
109TABLE OF CONTENTS 
E kuahui like i ka hana
Executive Summ ary
Hawai‘i's Sustainability and Climate Journey
The Update Pro cess for the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Pla n
Recommitting t o a Sustainable F uture
Hawai‘i's Comm itment to the Sustainable De velopment Goa ls (SDGs)  
Sustainable Development Goal 1 : No Poverty 
Sustainable Development Goal 2 : Zero Hunger 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 3: Good Health  and Well-Being  
Sustainable Development Goal 4: Quality Education 
Sustainable Development Goal 5: Gender Equa lity 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 6: Clean Wate r and Sanitation 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 7: Affordable a nd Clean Energy 
Sustainable Development Goal 8: Decent Work and  Economic Growt h 
Sustainable Development Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and  Infrastructure 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 0: Reduce Ine qualities 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 1: Sustainab le Cities and Communities 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 2: Responsib le Consumption and Production 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 3: Climate Action 
Sustainable Development Goal 14: Life Below Water 
Sustainable Development Goal 15: Life on La nd 
Sustainable Development Goal 16: Peace, Justic e and Strong Institutions 
Sustainable Development Goal 17: Partnerships
2021–2030 Recom mended Actions
Promote a Sustainable Economi c Recovery 
Reduce Greenho use Gas Emissions 
Improve Climate Resilience 
Advance Sustainable Communiti es 
Advance Equity  
Institutionalize Sustainabili ty Throughou t Government 
Preserve the Natural Environme nt 
Perpetuate Traditional Ecolo gical Knowledge and Values 
‘A‘ohe hana nui ke alu ‘ia
Refe rences 110
Hawai'i 2050 Sus
tainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    1
MESSAGE FROM THE GOVERNOR 
Recognizing the Publication, Revision, and Decennial Update of the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability  
Plan, Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030)
Sustainability is not simply a goal; it is a commitment and a responsibility for all of us throughout the State of 
Ha
wai‘i. We are all connected to Hawai‘i's sustainable fu ture in everything that we do — connected as a family, connected 
with our communities, and connect
ed to our ‘āina.  Knowing this, we must protect Hawai‘i for our children and for their 
future. We, as a state, must continue to actively work on the sustainable development and climate adaptation of our islands 
without compromising the abilit
y of future generations of Hawai‘i to thrive. 
This decennial update of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan serves as our State's climate and sustainability strategic 
action plan moving forward. This update will guide the crucial 2020-2030 Decade of Action which the United Nations 
declared to accelerate sustainable solutions for our biggest challenges. Hawai‘i's economic recovery from the COVID-19 
global pandemic, as r
ecommended by this updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, must be central to our shared 
responsibility and climate resilience efforts over this Decade of Action. Finally, this plan furthers my Sustainable Hawai‘i 
Initia
tives – which aim to protect Hawai‘i's watersheds and nearshore waters; prevent, detect and control invasive species; 
double local food production; and reach 100 percent renewable energy use in the electricity sector by the year 2045.
I applaud the staff of the State of Hawai‘i's Statewide Sustainability Program within the State's Office of Planning and all 
State departments and staff who participated in this plan and recognize our collective commitment to coordinate, develop, 
and promote policies and programs that assist in meeting Hawai‘i's statewide sustainability and climate policies and goals. 
M
ahalo for working diligently to develop this living document. 
I remain commit
ted to statewide sustainability and climate adaptation and will continue to work with the 
Legislature, counties, private sector and the community to achieve our sustainability and climate resiliency 
go
als. 
Together, we can do great things.
With warmest regards,
David Y. Ige  
Governor
State of Hawai‘i
 2�J� ALOHA! 
It is our pleasure to share this important document, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: 
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030) wit h you. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning has the unique charge to work collaboratively with state and 
county agencies and facilitate a collective effort to achie ve shared statewide sustainability and climate 
resilience goals for Hawai‘i.  
We are honored to deliver the update of the Hawai‘i 20 50 Sustainability Plan, to serve as our State's climate 
and sustainability strategic action plan moving forward , pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65.  
We are committed to coordinating Hawai‘i's statewide sustainability and climate resilience 
goals with the recent establishment of the first Statewide Sustainability Program in 2020, 
pursuant to
 Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8.   
The United Nations declared this important decade as th e “Decade of Action,” to accelerate 
sustainable solutions for our biggest challenges worldwide – ranging from poverty and gender 
inequities to climate change, inequality and closing th e finance gap.  In Hawai‘i, we are witnessing the 
effects of climate change right in front of us: we feel the rising temperatures; we experience increased 
severe storms and hazardous flooding throughout our islan ds; we see our coastlines eroding and our 
shoreline inundated; and we encounter the effects of dro ught and increased wildfires in our communities.  
Ha wa i‘i's climate is changing, and we must act together to incorporate climate resilience and 
sustainable development in our everyday lives. 
This Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan was developed by conducting an extensive statewide public 
engagement, consistent with a community-driven approach , in addition to collaborating with state and 
county stakeholder agencies to create this plan.  As a living document, the  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
has evolved throughout the decades. It is a shared visi on that this plan will bring a renewed focus on the 
implementation of Hawai‘i's sustainable development and climate resilience. 
We want to express our sincere thanks to the members of th e public who participated and contributed their 
time to share personal feedback.  We thank the many p rivate and non-governmental partners who 
participated in this update and shared their professional  challenges, success stories, and vision for an 
equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i.  We share our deep mahalo to the many state and county 
agencies and government officials who work daily advancing Ha wai‘i's environmental, social, and economic 
sustainability and climate resilience, and have contributed their intentions such that the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan might facilitate their role to addre ss gaps, and implement actionable solutions to these 
challenges.
Th e State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning and the Statewid e Sustainability Program will continue 
to work actively on the sustainable development and climate  adaptation of the state to meet the 
needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations of Hawai‘i to meet 
their own needs. 
Mary Alice Evans  
Director
Office of PlanningDanielle M. M. Bass
State Sustainability CoordinatorStatewide Sustainability Program
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    3
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
E ala! E alu!  E kuilima! 
The Office of Planning would like to ack nowl edge the m any individuals, organizations, and state  and c ounty agencies 
that  contributed to the development of th is plan.   
Mahalo to the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan proj ect te am who supported the development of this 
plan, led by Danielle Bass with support from Britt aney Key of the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning 's Statewide 
Sust aina bility Program, the ICF team lead by Susan A sam  and Leslie Chinery with support from Brad Hurley, 
Jam ie Liu, Mollie Carroll, Samantha Heits ch, Grace Tam ble,  and Eliza Puritz. Mahalo to Neil Hannahs for 
providing support throughout this project. Mahal o to Jonat han  Scheuer for serving as lead facilitator thr ough t he 
public engagement sessions and providing te chnical s upport throughout this project. Mahalo to Ste phanie  Chan g 
for the graphic design and layout of this pl an.  
Ma halo to the state and county agencies who pr ovide d rev iew, inputs, and other participation in 
development of the plan, including: 
State of Hawai‘i Office of the Governor
Office of the Lieutenant GovernorMembers of the Hawai‘i State LegislatureDepartment of Accounting and General ServicesState Procurement OfficeDepartment of AgricultureAgribusiness Development CorporationDepartment of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT)DBEDT – Business Development and Support DivisionDBEDT – Creative Industries Division DBEDT – Hawai‘i Broadband InitiativeDBEDT – Research and Economic Analysis DivisionHawai‘i Community Development AuthorityHawai‘i Housing Finance and Development CorporationHawai‘i State Energy OfficeHawai‘i Technology Development CorporationHawai‘i Tourism AuthorityLand Use CommissionNatural Energy Laboratory of Hawai‘i AuthorityState of Hawai‘i Office of Planning – Coastal Zone Management ProgramState of Hawai‘i Office of Planning – Land Use DivisionPublic Utilities CommissionHawai‘i Emergency Management AgencyState Disaster Recovery CoordinatorState of Hawai‘i Office of Homeland SecurityDepartment of EducationDepartment of Hawaiian Home LandsDepartment of Health (DOH)DOH – Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion DivisionDOH – Clean Air Branch DOH – Clean Water BranchDOH – Hazard Evaluation and Emergency Response OfficeDOH – Primary Prevention BranchDOH – Safe Drinking Water BranchDOH – Solid and Hazardous Waste BranchDOH – Wastewater BranchDepartment of Human ServicesHawai‘i Public Housing AuthorityState Homelessness CoordinatorState Commission on the Status of WomenDepartment of Labor and Industrial Relations Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR)Commission on Water Resource ManagementDLNR – Division of Aquatic Resources DLNR – Engineering DivisionDLNR – Division of Forestry and WildlifeDLNR – Land DivisionDLNR – Division of State ParksHawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation CommissionHawai‘i Invasive Species CouncilKaho‘olawe Island Reserve CommissionDLNR – Office of Conservation and Coastal LandsDepartment of TransportationO‘ahu Metropolitan Planning Organization University of Hawai‘iUH – School of Ocean and Earth Science and TechnologyCity and County of Honolulu Office of the MayorMembers of the Honolulu City CouncilCity and County of Honolulu – Board of Water SupplyCity and County of Honolulu – Department of Environmental ServicesCity and County of Honolulu – Department of Planning and  
   PermittingCity and County of Honolulu – Office of Climate Change,  
   Sustainability, and Resilience City and County of Honolulu – Office of Economic RevitalizationCounty of Hawai‘i Office of the MayorMembers of the Hawai‘i County CouncilCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of PlanningCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of Research and DevelopmentCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of Environmental ManagementCounty of Kaua‘i Office of the MayorMembers of the Kaua‘i County CouncilCounty of Kaua‘i – Department of Planning County of Kaua‘i – Department of Public WorksCounty of Kaua‘i – Kaua‘i Emergency Management AgencyCounty of Kaua‘i – Office of Economic DevelopmentCounty of Maui Office of the Mayor Members of the Maui County CouncilCounty of Maui – Department of Environmental Management County of Maui – Department of Planning County of Maui – Department of Water Supply County of Maui – Office of Climate Action, Sustainability, and  
    Resilience 
 4Mahalo to all the individuals and organizations that helped develop the “Sustaining Hawai‘i” series, 
showcasing sustainability and resilience in action across the state, including: 
Mahalo to many people who lent their hand s in many different ways, including participants i n the 
virtual public information sharing sessions including the publi c and community  members from  the islands of 
Hawai‘i, Maui, Molokai,  Lāna‘i, Kaho‘o lawe, O‘ahu, and Kaua‘i, State a nd County ag encies as previously acknowle dged, and 
participants from the followi ng organizat ions, includin g: 
350 Hawai‘i
AECOMAES Hawai‘iAHLAloha HarvestAloha United WayArizona State UniversityBank of Hawai‘iBlue Zones Project Hawai‘iBuilding Industry Association of Hawai‘i Building Owners and Managers Association  
    of Hawai‘iChamber of Commerce Hawai‘iChaminade University of Honolulu Conservation Council for Hawai‘iConservation International Hawai‘iEarth Justice Mid-Pacific Regional OfficeEast West CenterElemental ExceleratorEnvironmental Caucus of Hawai‘iFaith Action Environmental Justice Task 
Force
First Hawaiian BankHawai‘i Alliance for Community Based  
   Economic DevelopmentHawai‘i Alliance of Nonprofit OrganizationsHawai‘i Bicycling LeagueHawai‘i Cattlemen's CouncilHawai‘i Children's Action NetworkHawai‘i Community FoundationHawai‘i Conservation AllianceHawai‘i Electric Vehicle AssociationHawai‘i EnergyHawai‘i Farm BureauHawai‘i Farmers Union UnitedHawai‘i Food Industry AssociationHawai‘i Foreign Trade Zone 9Hawai‘i GasHawai‘i Green GrowthHawai‘i Institute for Human RightsHawai‘i Medical Services AssociationHawai‘i Pacific HealthHawai‘i Pacific UniversityHawai‘i Philanthropy ForumHawai‘i Primary Care AssociationHawai‘i Public Health InstituteHawai‘i Sea GrantHawai‘i Youth Climate CoalitionHawai‘i Appleseed Center for Law and 
Economic Justice
Hawaiian AirlinesHawaiian Electric CompanyHawaiian Telcom, Inc.Healthcare Association of Hawai‘iHHFHistoric Hawai‘i FoundationILWU Hawai‘iIntegral GroupInterstate RestorationIsland SignalKamehameha SchoolsKanu Hawai‘iKaua‘i Island Utility CooperativeKawanui FarmKohala InstituteKokua Hawai‘i FoundationKualoa RanchKupu Hawai‘iLGBT Caucus of Hawai‘iMari's GardensMarriott InternationalMaui Economic Opportunity, Inc.New York UniversityOffice of Hawaiian AffairsOla Hawai‘iOne World One WaterPacific BiodieselPacific Gateway CenterParents and Children TogetherPBR Hawai‘iPūlama Lāna‘iRetail Merchants of Hawai‘iRoth Ecological Design InternationalSierra Club of Hawai‘iSSFM Hawai‘iSurfrider Foundation-Hawai‘i RegionSustainable Coastlines of Hawai‘iSust‘ainable Moloka‘iTetratech Hawai‘iThe Healy FoundationThe Nature Conservancy of Hawai‘iThe Queen's Health SystemsTrust for Public Land Hawai‘iU.N. Department of Economic and Social Affairs   –  
   Division of Sustainable DevelopmentU.S. Green Building Council – Hawai‘i ChapterU.S. Department of Agriculture – Hawai‘i OfficeU.S. Environmental Protection Agency – Region 9U.S. Federal Aviation Administration – Western Pacific  
   RegionU.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency – Region 9U.S. Federal Highways Administration – Hawai‘i DivisionU.S. Fish and Wildlife Service – Pacific RegionU.S. Geological Survey – Pacific RegionU.S. Housing and Urban Development- Honolulu Field  
   OfficeU.S. Indo – Pacific CommandU.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association –  
   Pacific Islands RegionUlupono InitiativeUniversity of Hawai‘i – HiloUniversity of Hawai‘i – MānoaUniversity of Hawai‘i – West O‘ahu University of Hawai‘i Economic Research OrganizationUrban FabrickVulcanWastewater Alternatives and InnovationsWATGWilliam S. Richardson School of LawZero Waste OahuState of Hawai‘i Office of the Governor
Members of the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
State of Hawai‘i DLNR, Division of Aquatic 
Resources 
State of Hawai‘i DLNR, Division of State Parks State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation
Hawai‘i State Energy OfficeHawai‘i Tourism Authority
City and County of Honolulu Board of Water  
   SupplyCity and County of Honolulu Office of Climate 
Change, Sustainability, and ResiliencyMembers of the Hawai‘i County Council 
County of Kaua‘i Planning Department 
 Kaua‘i Emergency Management Agency
Members of the Maui County CouncilCounty of Maui – Office of Climate Action,  
Sustainability, and Resilience
‘Āina Momona
AmeriCorps Volunteers in Service to AmericaAndrew Richard HaraFriends of Hanauma BayHawai‘i Association of Watershed PartnershipsHawai‘i Cattlemen's CouncilHawai‘i Community FoundationHawai‘i Farm BureauKō Hana DistillersLāna‘i Community Health CenterMa Ka Hana Ka ‘IkeMoloka‘i Homestead Farmers AlliancePacific BiodieselPu‘uhonua o PunaU.S. Green Building Council – Hawai‘i ChapterWai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health CenterWindward Zero Waste School Hui
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    5
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADC Agribusiness Development 
Corporation
AFOLU Agriculture, Forestry, and Land Use
ALICE Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed
BOE Board of Education
BWS Board of Water Supply
CARES ActCoronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act
COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease 2019
CO2Carbon Dioxide
CWRM Commission on Water Resource Management
CZM Coastal Zone Management Program
DAR Division of Aquatic Resources
DBEDT Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism
DHHL Department of Hawaiian Home Lands
DLNR Department of Land and Natural Resources
DOE Department of Education
DOH Department of Health
EBT/SNAPElectronic Benefit Transfer/Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
EEPS Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard
EPA Environmental Protection Agency
ESSA Every Student Succeeds Act
FDA Food and Drug Administration
GDE Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GHG Greenhouse Gas
GWh Gigawatt Hour
HB House Bill
HDOA Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture
HCR House Concurrent ResolutionHRS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes
HSEO Hawai‘i State Energy Office
HTA Hawai‘i Tourism Authority
IECC International Energy Conservation Code
IPCC U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
IPPU Industrial Processes and Product Use
IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature
LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
LGBTQ+ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer
MWh Megawatt Hour
NCRS Natural Resources Conservation Service
RPS Renewable Portfolio Standard
OP Office of Planning
SB Senate Bill 
SCR Senate Concurrent Resolution
SDG Sustainable Development Goal
SLH Session Laws of Hawai‘i
TOD Transit-Oriented Development
TRHT Truth, Racial Healing, and Transformation
UN United Nations
UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
USFWS U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
ZEV Zero-Emission Vehicle
 6GLOSSARY OF HA W AIIAN WORDS & PHRASES 
This list provides the following words, phrases, and 
their corresponding definitions used in this 
document.  The translations are shortened from 
Ulukau, the Hawaiian Electric Library. 1
 Ahupua‘a means a land division usually extending 
from the uplands to the sea, so called because the 
boundary was marked by a heap (ahu) of stones 
surmo unted by an image of a pig (pua‘a), or because a 
pig or other tribute was laid on the altar as tax to the 
Chief.  The boundaries of an ahupua‘a are based on 
the
 region's watersheds.
‘A- ina means land, earth.
‘A- ina momona means rich, abundant, productive,
fertile lands which sustain life.
‘Aina Pono means righteous meal, or good meal.
Aloha means affection, love, compassion for others. 
The phrase also serves as Greetings, Hello, Good Bye, 
Farewell.
H
a- lau hula means a school or hall in which the
Hawaiian dance form called hula is practiced, hula 
school.
H
a- wai (Neritina granosa) means a freshwater snail
endemic to Hawai‘i.
Holomua means progress, or to move forward.
‘Ike means knowledge, or wisdom.
Kama‘-aina means a native-born, one born in a place, 
host. 
Ka- naka Maoli means Native Hawaiians.
Ka- kou means we (inclusive, three or more), ours.
Kapu
 means f orbidden, sacred.
Keiki means child or children.
Kuleana means right, privilege, concern, 
responsibility.
Ko‘a means coral. 
Kumulipo means origin, or source of life; and is the 
name of the Hawaiian creation chant.
Kupu means to sprout, or to grow.
1 Available online at: http://wehewehe.org.  Lo‘i means irrigated terrace, especially for taro. 
Lo‘i Kalo means taro terrace.
Loko I‘a means Hawaiian fishponds.Ma kai means toward the ocean.Maka‘a-inana means people that attend the land.
Ma-keke  means market.
Ma-la means garden, plantation, patch, or cultivated
field.Ma-lama ‘a-ina means to care for the land.
Ma-lama Hawai‘i means to care for Hawai‘i.
Ma-lama Honua means to care for the Earth.
Mana‘o means a thought or belief.Ma uka means inland or toward the upland. Momona means fertile, or rich, as soil. 
 
‘Ōlelo means language or speech.
‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i means Hawaiian language.
‘O‘opu means a type of freshwater fish or goby, 
which generally describes any of the four endemic or one indigenous species in Hawai‘i. [‘O‘opu hi‘u kole (Lentipes concolor), ‘O‘opu nōpili (Sicyopterus stimpsoni), ‘O‘opu nākea (Awaous guamensis), ‘O‘opu naniha (Stenogoblus hawaiiensis), and ‘O‘opu ‘akupa (Eleotris sandwicensis)] 
‘Ōpae means a type of freshwater shrimp, which 
generally describes either of the two endemic shrimp species in Hawai‘i. [‘Ōpae kala‘ole (Atyoida bisulcata), and ‘Ōpae ‘oeha‘a (Macrobrachium grandimanus)]
Pono means goodness, uprightness, morality, moral 
qualities, correct or proper procedure, excellence, equity, fair, righteous, welfare, and wellbeing.
Pu‘uhonua means place of refuge. Pae‘a-ina Hawai‘i means the Hawaiian Islands. 
Wahi Kapu means sacred place.Wahi Pana means legendary place. Wahine means woman. Wa-hine means women, the plural of woman.
Hawai'i 2050
 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    7
GLOSSARY OF HA W AIIAN PROVERBS
‘O–lelo No‘eau 
‘A ‘ohe hana nui ke alu ‘ia   
No task is too big when done together by all.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #142)  
E ala! E alu! E kuilima! 
Up! Tog
ether! Join Hands!  
A call to come together to tackle a given task.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #258)  
E kuahui like i ka hana  
Let eve
rybody pitch in and work together.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #323)  
Hahai no ka ua i ka ululā‘au  
Rains alway
s follow the forest.  
The rains are attracted to forest trees. Knowing this Hawaiians hewed only the trees that were needed.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #405)  
Ma ka hana ka ‘ike  
 In working one learns.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #2088)  
Ua mau ke ea o ka ‘āina i ka pono  
The life of the land is preserved in righteousness.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #2829)   The following list provides the Hawaiian proverbs and their corresponding definitions used in this document. 
Integrating Hawaiian proverbs and poetry raises awareness of ‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i and ‘Ōlelo No‘eau, as well as cultivates appreciation for the Hawaiian cultural ethos of environmental guardianship. The ‘Ōlelo No‘eau referenced herein are from the collection in ‘Ōlelo No‘eau: Hawaiian Proverbs & Poetical Sayings – collected, translated, and annotated by Mary Kawena Pukui.
In addition to the ‘Ōlelo No‘eau referenced above, the following Hawaiian proverbs and their corresponding 
definitions were also used in during the virtual public information sharing sessions and public outreach for this Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan.
‘A ‘ohe pu‘u ki‘eki‘e ke ho‘ā‘o ‘ia e pi‘i 
No cliff i
s so tall that it cannot be scaled.  
No problem is too great when one tries hard to solve it.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #209)  
Hili hewa ka mana‘o ke ‘ole ke kūkākūkā  
Ideas run wild without  discussion.  
Discussion brings ideas together into a plan.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #993)  
 8E KUAHUI LIKE I KA HAN A
Let Everyone Pitch In And W ork T ogether
The  State of Hawai‘i has a strong history and posit ive  mome ntum across a range of public and 
private efforts to set the state on a course  toward climate resilience, and economic, social,  an d 
environmental sustainability.  Existing State  poli cies, State and County agency programs, and 
voluntary initiatives such as the Aloha+ Challenge and the Sustai nable Hawai‘i Initiative are driving 
pro gress, while the United Nations' Sustainable Deve lopme nt Goals (SDGs) have created a destination in  
the form of a globally unified set of 17 targets. 
Concurrently, the state's isolation and finite resource s have limited the affordable access to h ousing, 
utilities, transportation, and food for many of  Hawai‘i's resi dents.   The recent COVID-19 global 
pandemic exacerbated many of these economic and soc ial chal lenge s. Environmental impacts from 
poll ution and invasive species continue to threaten our islands‘ native biodiversity, while  Hawai‘i's 
changing climate unfolds.  Climate change in  Haw ai‘i will exacerbate these existing problems and inflict  
more  state wide challenges including sea level rise, drought,  wildf ires, hurricanes, precipitation loss, 
rising temperatures, and increased risks to public he alth. 
These  disruptions and challenges offer an opport unity t o rethin k how and where we invest — 
to identify needed adjustments to promote local food  prod uction, climate resilience, green 
infrast ructure, resource management, affordable housin g, a nd more. 
As we do so, we can draw inspiration and guidance from well- adapted traditional Hawaiian ahupua‘a 
values and practices that foster a systems appro ach to stewardship, sustainable well-being, and 
intergenerational equity (the duty of present generations to support future generations).
To create a vibrant, resilient economy, a healthy q uality of life grounded in a multi-ethnic 
culture and Kānaka Maoli values, and healthy natura l resources— we need a shared 
understanding of our goals and the action s required  to achieve them.  Within this context, the 
State of  Hawai‘i is updating and revising t he scope of  its  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve  as the  
State's climate and sustainability strategic acti on plan, pursuant to  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes § 226-65 . 
This plan includes specific priority strategies and actions to advance economic, social, environmental 
sustai nability, and climate resilience in Hawai ‘i over this decade.  This  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
desc ribes the existing statewide efforts in relation to the UN SDGs and presents the State's current  
commitments to guide the coordination and implementat ion  of t he State's sustainability and climate 
adaptation goals, principles, and policies.
This plan captures and will help refocus the  mome ntum sta tewide created through past and 
ongoing initiatives, helping to guide us forwa rd to a more prosperous, equitable, resilient, and 
sust aina ble future.  This is an inclusive journey toward a share d vision of the  Hawai‘i that we 
wa nt to live in and pass on to future generat ions.  Achie vin g this vision will require a kākou 
effort, with all of  Hawai‘i's government agencies, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and 
citizens to pitch in and work together.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    9
The Unit ed Nations designated 2020–2030 as the “Decade of Action,” a time to accelerate progress toward 
achi eving t he Sust ainable Development Goals (SDGs), a globally unified set of 17 targets.  The people of 
Hawai‘i are committed to and have built positive momentum toward achieving these goals across 
a range of public and private efforts to achieve the SDGs by 2030.  In coordination with existing State 
poli cies, St ate and County agency programs, and voluntary initiatives such as the Aloha+ Challenge and the 
Sustainable Hawai‘i  Init iative, this Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan recommends additional actions to achieve 
near-t erm solutions for Hawai‘i's climate resilience and economic, social, and environmental sustainability.
To cult ivat e a vibrant, resilient economy, a healthy quality of life grounded in a multi-ethnic culture and 
Kānaka Maoli values, and healthy natural resources—we need a shared understanding of our goals and the 
actions required to achieve them.  While the COVID-19 global pandemic underscored Hawai‘i's economic and 
communit y vulnerabilities and inequities with regard to ensuring basic necessities including food security, 
housing affordabili ty, and household financial security—it also provided a unique opportunity to rethink 
and recalibrate Hawai‘i's “new normal” through an equitable, resilient, and sustainable recovery.
To inform t he evolution of Hawai‘i's “new normal,” and consistent with a community-driven approach, this 
updat ed plan employed an extensive engagement and outreach process that included two public surveys, 
multi ple stakeholder interviews, and nine virtual public information-sharing sessions.  This public 
engagemen t process identified climate action as the top sustainability priority to achieve within 
this decade, followed b y sustainable cities and communities and clean and affordable energy, and 
the need to increase Hawai‘i's local food production and food security. 
Input from this extensive public engagement informed the development of this plan by providing insights into a 
shared vision for Hawai‘i's sustainable economic recovery.  The dialogue with stakeholders and the public 
recognized actions that organizations are already taking to achieve the SDGs, identified policy and program 
gaps, and recommended actions to enhance sustainability and climate change adaptation in Hawai‘i. 
This updated plan fulfills the revised the scope of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve as the State's 
climate and sustainability strategic action plan, pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65.  Hawai‘i has 
made sign ifican t sustainab ility commitments through laws, policies, and plans that reflect our local 
values.   For the first time, this updated plan presents Hawai‘i's commitments as a collective whole and aligned 
with the SDGs. There is much work yet to be done to achieve these sustainability and climate goals and 
commi tments. 
This plan  identifies 8 focus areas with 38 strategies and more than 250 recommended actions that 
poin t to what is urgent to undertake over this decade.  These focus areas align with priorities identified 
through public and stakeholder engagement, as well as ongoing commitments the State has made as described 
in this plan. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan
Charting a Cour se for the D ecade of Action  (2020–2030)
 10FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DECADE OF ACTION: 
UL TIMATELY, A SUCCESSFUL DECADE OF ACTION 
IN HAWAI‘I WILL REQUIRE:Prom ote a 
Sustainable 
Economic Recovery 
through strategies that 
support local
agriculture, 
green workforce 
development and 
education, and 
sustainable and 
regenerative tourism.Reduce Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
by continuing to 
monitor the state's 
emissions and reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions through 
strategies in the energy, 
transportation, 
agriculture and waste 
sectors.
Advance Equity  
by e nsuring equitable 
access to resources,
addressing affordable 
housing and 
homelessness crises, 
and improving gender 
equity.Institutionalize 
Sustainability 
Th roughout 
Government  
by increasing the 
government's capacity 
through 
institutionalized 
collaboration to address 
sustainability and 
greening government 
operations.Improve Climat e 
Resilience by 
continuing to 
monitor and adapt to 
climate impacts and 
take actions to 
increase the 
resilience of the 
natural and built 
environments and 
their occupants.
Preserve 
the Natural 
Environment, 
including a focus on 
clean water, marine 
resources and 
ecosystems, and 
natural resource 
protection.Advance Sustainable 
Com munities through 
strategies that improve 
land use and access 
to green space, advance 
sustainable practices in 
schools, and encourage 
sustainable 
buildings and 
infrastructure.
Perpetuate 
Traditional 
Ecological Knowledge  
and Values 
as Hawai‘i 
collectively tackles 
these sustainability and 
climate challenges.1
5 6 7 82 3 4
•Strategic prioritization of 
limited resources.  When 
prioritizing investments, 
funders should evaluate 
whether the activity 
contributes to one or more 
SDG, is ready for action 
(e.g., existing targets, 
policies, plans, and/
or partnerships are in 
place), addresses an urgent 
need, directly or indirectly 
addresses equity, explicitly 
protects Hawai‘i's local 
values, and will benefit 
local residents. • Identification and 
commitment from lead
 and 
supporting actors.  There 
are opportunities for 
everyone (elected officials, 
state agencies, counties, the 
private sector, community 
organizations, students, and 
residents) to lead or support 
efforts to achieve these 
strategies.
Collaboration is essential.• Development of metrics 
to define success and then 
enable measurement and 
tracking of our progress. 
Defined endpoints and 
metrics for success 
will make it possible to 
measure advancements 
and identify where gaps 
remain; in some cases, 
targets and metrics have 
already been identified 
whereas a collective vision
will need to be developed 
in other cases.•  A realistic timeline to 
work toward.  We can move 
quickly to start some 
strategies, for which 
sustained efforts will be 
necessary to make steady, 
incremental progress. 
Other sustainability and 
climate strategies may 
require significant upfront 
planning, buy-in from 
disparate parties, and 
securing financial support 
before a swift and dramatic 
change can be made. 
Establishing clear and 
feasible timelines that set 
out incremental milestones
will ensure greater success. 
Let's work together to achieve an equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i!
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    11
HAWAI‘I'S SU STAINABILITY
& CLIMATE JOURNEY  
Let Everyone Pitch In And Work Tog ether
1998
20052008
20112012
2014This updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability P lan 
is not the state's first step on the journey 
toward a sustainable future:
The State published its 
first Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Action Plan.
Act 8, Special Session 
Laws of Hawai‘i 2005 
established the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Task Force 
(2005–2008) and directed 
the task force to develop the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan.The Hawai‘i State Auditor 
published the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability Plan to 
address the vital needs of 
Hawai‘i through the year 
2050 and beyond.
The State's 
Sustainability Priority 
Guidelines were codified 
in the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act, as HRS 
§226-108.The State's Climate 
Change Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines were codified in 
the Hawai‘i State Planning 
Act, as HRS §226-109.
Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 69 was 
passed to establish 
the Aloha+ Challenge 
Goals, which were 
inspired by the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability 
Plan.
 122017
20182019Hawai‘i became the 
first state in the nation 
to enact legislation 
committing to the 
United Nations Paris 
Agreement, through the 
enactment of Act 32, 
Session Laws of 
Hawai‘i 2017.The Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Mitigation and 
Adaptation Commission 
was established by 
HRS §225P-3.
and 
The State's Greenhouse Gas 
Sequestration Task Force was 
established through HRS §225P-4, 
to increase greenhouse gas 
sequestration.  
and 
The Hawai‘i State Auditor, with the 
assistance of the State of Hawai‘i's 
Office of Planning, undertook a 10-
year measurement of the 2008 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
that evaluated the plan's progress 
between 2008 and 2017.Act 14 6, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 
2019, codified as HRS §226-65, 
amended the scope of the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
to serve as the State's climate and 
sustainability strategic action plan 
to determine future actions guiding 
coordination and implementation 
of sustainability and climate 
adaptation goals, principles, and 
policies . The law directs the State 
of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning to 
update the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan every 10 years.
20202021
The State of Hawai‘i's 
Office of Planning 
was revised by Act 
45, Session Laws 
of Hawai‘i 2020, to 
provide statewide 
sustainability, climate 
adaptation, and sea 
level rise adaptation 
planning and 
coordination.The State officially established 
the state's first Statewide Sustainability Program also through Act 45, codified as Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8, to provide statewidesustainability and climateadaptation planning andcoordination. The StatewideSustainability Program is directedto develop, organize, and promotepolicies and programs that assistin the meeting of Hawai‘i'snumerous sustainability andclimate policies and goals.The State of 
Hawai‘i became 
the first state 
in the nation to 
declare a climate 
emergency by 
adopting Senate 
Concurrent 
Resolution 44.This document, the updated Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan, was released.The Hawai‘i State 
Legislature passed House 
Bill (HB) 1149
1 and HB 
1318,1which together, 
consolidate government land 
use functions of different 
agencies in order to improve 
the coordination of state 
government to work more 
efficiently to achieve the 
state's sustainability and 
climate change goals for 
a more abundant future 
for the people of Hawai‘i, 
and renames the Office of 
Planning to the “Office of 
Planning and Sustainable 
Development.”
1 At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature and transmitted to 
the Governor for consideration.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    13
The State of  Hawai‘i's L egal and Statutory Sustainability Targets
The  State of Hawai‘i has enacted and codified many  legal an d statut ory targets to prepare for and transition 
Hawai‘i toward its sustainable and climat e-resilien t future . 
2000
2010
2015
2020
2022
2030  Statewide Recycling Goal HRS §342G-3 
Establishes a statewide goal to reduce the solid waste stream prior to disposal by 50% through source 
reduction, recycling, and bioconversion by January 1, 2000
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard
 HRS §269-92
Requires each electric utility company that sell
s electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 
10% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2010.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the State to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 15% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2015.
Statewide Greenhouse Gas Emissions Limit HRS §342B-71 
Establishes a statewide greenhouse gas emissions cap to be equal to or below the level of the statewide 
greenhouse gas emissions in 1990 by the year 2020.
Statewide Prohibition of Coal Power HRS §269-48 
Prevents the State Public Utilities Commission from approving new, renewed, or extending power proposals 
within the state to burn or consume coal to generate electricity beginning June 30, 2020. 
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard  HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 30% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2020.
Statewide Ban of Coal Power for Electricity Generation  HRS §342B-36 
Concludes all coal burning within the state on December 31, 2022. 
Statewide Departmental Proc
urement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 10% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural  products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by 
January 1, 2025.
Statewide Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standards  HRS §269-96 
Requires that 4,300 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity use be reduced by 2030.
Double Local Food Production Act 151, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019 
Directs the State Department of Agriculture to develop a strategic plan to double local food production and 
increase food exports by 2030.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard  
HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 
40% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2030.
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State
Legislature and transmitted to the Governor
 for consideration.BY: TARGET:
 142025Clean Transportation Goal: State Fleet Transition to Zero Emission Vehicles HB 552, 2021*
Requires the transition of 100% of the State's fleet that are light-duty motor vehicles passenger cars to be zero-
emission vehicles by December 31, 2030.
Local Farm  to School Meal Goal HB 767, 2021*
Requires the State Department of Education to serve 30% of food served in public schools to consist of locally sourced 
products by 2030.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 18% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2030.
Hawai‘i Public Schools Net-Zero Energy Goal HRS §302A-1510 
Requires the State Department of Education to becom e net-zero in energy use, producing as much renewable energy 
as it consumes across all  public school facilities by January 1, 2035. 
University of Hawai‘i Net-Zero Energy Goal HRS §304A-119 
Requires the University of Hawai‘i to become net-zero in energy use, producing as much renewable energy as it 
consumes across all cam puses by January 1, 2035. 
Clean Transportation Goal: State Fleet Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle HB 552, 2021*
Requires the transition of 100% of the State's fleet for all other light-duty motor vehicles to be zero-emission vehicles 
by December 31, 2035.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 26% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2035.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a renewable 
portfolio standard of 70% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2040.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each State department to ensure that 34% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2040.
Reclaimed Water in State and County Facilities  HRS §174C-31 (g) (6) 
Requires the use of reclaimed water in 100% of State and County facilities, except for drinking and potable water 
uses, by December 31, 2045.
Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target HRS §225P-5 
Establishes a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and greenhouse gases than emitted within the 
state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269- 92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consum ption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 100% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2045.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*
Requires each State department to ensure that 42% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2045.
Statewide Cesspool Conversion HRS §342D-72 
Requires the mandatory upgrade, conversion, or connection of all cesspools statewide (over 88,000 cesspools) by 
January 1, 2050.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*
Requires each state department to ensure that 50% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2050.2035  BY: TARGET:
2045
20502040  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    15
2030
(Continued)  The Aloha+ Challenge
The Sustainable Hawai‘i InitiativeInspired by the 2008 publication of  
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, and the Micronesian Challenge, the State of  Hawai‘i adopted Senate Concurrent Resolution 69 in 2014 establishing the Aloha+ Challenge goals. Unlike the legal and statutory targets presented in the previous section, the Aloha+ Challenge Goals are not legally codified but set informal, integrated goals and six ambitious targets to be achieved by 2030.By 2030:
1. Clean Energy: Achieve 70% clean energy, with 40% from renewable sources and 30% from efficiency, with a view toward100% renewable energy by 2045.  
2. Local Food:  At least double the local food production with agoal of 20–30% of food consumed being grown locally.  
3. Natural Resource Management:  Reverse the trend of natural resource loss mauka to makai by increasing watershed protection, community-based marine management, invasive species prevention and control, increasing freshwater capacity,and restoration of native species.  
4. Waste Reduction:  Reduce the solid waste stream prior todisposal by 50%, through source reduction, recycling, and bioconversion.
5. Smart Sustainable Communities:  Increase livability and
resilience in the built environment through planning and implementation at the state and county levels.  
In September 2016, the State of  Hawai‘i hosted the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) World Conservation Congress, with more than 10,000 participants from 192 countries. At this meeting, the State announced its Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative, which focuses on conservation and environmental sustainability. These commitments are not legally binding and may be updated or replaced by commitments codified in law.Sustainable Hawai‘i Commitments:
1. Double local food production by 2020
2. Implement the Interagency Biosecurity Plan by 20273. Protect 30% of Hawai‘i priority watersheds by 20304. Effectively manage 30% of Hawai‘i nearshore ocean waters  
by 20305. Achieve 100% renewable energy by 2045
 16Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    17THE UPDATE PROCESS
FOR THE HAWAI‘I 2050 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
The State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning began a process to update the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  during 
Earth Week in 2020, at the outset of the COVID-19 global pandemic.  As the pandemic stretched on and 
development of the plan progressed, it became increasingly clear that a sustainable economic recovery must be 
central to Hawai‘i's sustainability and climate resil ience efforts over this decade.
Consistent with a community-driven approach, this update relied on input from stakeholders and the public 
through an engagement process that involved two surveys , nine virtual information-sharing sessions, interviews 
with stakeholders, and a broad public outreach effo rt.  Input from these engagements informed the development of 
this plan by providing insights into a shared vision for  a sustainable economic recovery, recognizing actions  that 
various organizations are already taking to achieve the SDGs, discussing policy and program gaps, and identifying 
actions to enhance sustainability and climate change adaptation in Hawai‘i . 
The Office of Planning reviewed more than 150 existing l aws, plans, policies, programs, and strategies relevan t to 
sustainability and climate change in  Hawai‘i to dete rmine how their activities and recommendations align with the 
17 SDGs and identify gaps where individual SDGs are n ot being addressed by existing efforts.  Based on the findings 
of this review and the public input gathered during th e surveys and information-sharing sessions, the Of fice of 
Planning then developed an initial list of recommended actions for the 2020–2030 timeframe.  A draft plan was 
shared with stakeholders throughout State and County government agencies to solicit feedback and inpu t on 
priority focus areas.  Ultimately, the Office of Planning identified a set of near-term priority focus areas based on 
pressing climate resilience and economic, social, and environmental issues, this plan's extensive stakeholder 
feedback and public outreach process, and State initiat ives and priorities.  The selection process prioritized 
actions that address multiple SDGs, have strong support fr om stakeholders and the public, and can be impleme nted 
in this decade (between 2020 and 2030).
2
9
17150230
U.N. Sustainabl e Development Goals (SDGs)Public surveys 
Public Virtual Information Sharing Sessions 
Participating
 agencies, organizations, 
and nonprofits
Existing plans, policies, progams, strategies 
 18Key concepts shared 
by public participants that emerged that are essential to Hawai‘i sustainable economic recovery included: •Haw ai‘i has unique challenges but also unique opportunities.
•Hawai‘i can look to the past for lessons for the futur e.  Hawai‘i
can benefit from the value in contemporary restoration of cultural 
practices. 
•Hawai‘i can serve as an example for other islands by modeling
sustainability. 
•Hawai‘i should pursue goals that increase equity and/or
explicitly address equity issues in their implementation. 
•The COVID-19 global pandemic had disproportionate impacts on 
ALICE® (Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed) 
households and communities, highlighting a need to invest more
resources and support in those communities. 
•The COVID-19 global pandemic has highlighted food securi ty
issues and the need to support local agriculture. 
•Boost childcare, eldercare, and education, and offer supp ort for 
women whose jobs and family roles were negatively impa cted by
the COVID-19 global pandemic.
•Rebuild the workforce by empowering youth, investing in green 
and clean energy workforce development, and upskilling the labor
force to compete in the global market through initiatives  such as 
strengthened broadband for remote work.
•Pursue innovative opportunities in the clean energy and 
agricultural sectors to enhance economic growth, workfor ce
development, and food security.
• Rely less on imports while making better use of existing local
resources—including local agriculture—to develop a circular 
economy to become more self-sufficient. 
• Build the economy to serve and be driven by local popu lations
(for example, through local food production).In addition, these public sessions and the feedback provided by the public participants identified where and how  Hawai‘i needs to focus its efforts to address these challenges and opportunities:Feedback from Public Engagement 
This plan aims to be useful to the many changemakers in  Hawai‘i whose actions have and will continue to help 
achieve its goals, including (but not limited to): elected officials, state agencies, county governments, community organizations, businesses, students and youth, and residents. Any one individual may represent several of these groups and may use different elements of this plan for different uses (for example, a nonprofit organization may find the content valuable in supporting their grant-writing efforts while elected officials and governmental entities may gain a clearer picture of what policies or actions are considered to be more urgent). As such, it was a critical time to engage with the public on a shared vision for an equitable, climate resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i .
Through nine virtual public information sharing sessions and two public outreach surveys, the Office of Planning 
solicited input from  Hawai‘i residents regarding their vision for a sustainable economic recovery from the COVID-19 global pandemic as well as current policy gaps or barriers to achieving Hawai‘i sustainable future. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    19
RECOMMITTING TO A 
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
This update serves as a checkpoint and an o pportunity for 
recommitment, especially in light of the vulnerab ilities 
further highlighted by the COVID-19 global pande mic.  
Now more than ever it is clear that Hawai‘i nee ds to b ecom e 
mor e resilient, adaptable, equitable, and e conomical ly 
diversified.  As Hawai‘i recovers and buil ds b ack s tronger from 
the  pandemic, the State can redefine a more s ustainab le and 
resilient way of life that can protect us against  future risks, 
including those from climate change.
This plan pursues outcomes reflected with a Kān aka 
Maoli worldview to mālama ‘āina and mālama Hon ua and 
contemporary restoration of cultural practice s, along wi th 
existing state policies (including the Hawai ‘i State  Plannin g 
Act and Functional Plan objectives), the Aloha+  Challen ge 
goals, the Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative g oals, and other 
sustainability and climate resilient laws, policies, and 
initiatives. 
We are not starting from scratch.
This updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  is alig ned with the SDGs, which provides a pathway  to achievi ng a 
better and more sustainable future for all , and thi s plan pl ays a key role in achieving those goals, guid ing economic 
diversification and development toward sustain ability while harnessing innovation and creativity to buil d resi lienc e 
to climate change and other future risks. 
Dev eloped with collaboration and input from sta kehold ers around the state, this updated plan provides 
recommendations for priority action areas over thi s decad e that will help advance these goals.  This plan does not 
provide a step-by-step guide for what each indi vidual and organization can and should do.  It is time to dr aw upon 
your networks, ‘ike, and enthusiasm to take the ste ps nee ded to ach ieve these goals to continue to mālama Hawai‘i for 
the benefit of Hawai‘i's future generations.“Sustainability” means achieving 
the following: 
•Resp ect of culture, character, beauty, and 
history
 of the state's island communities; 
•Striking balance between economic, social, 
community, and environmental priorities; and 
•Meeting the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations 
to meet their own needs. 
(Hawai‘i R
evised Statutes §226-2)
 20Thi s plan identifies 8 focus areas with 38 strate gies and more th an 250 re commended actions that that will help 
Hawai‘i become more equitable, clim ate resilient, and sustainable during this Decade of Act ion.  These focus areas 
align  with priorities identified through public an d stakeholder engagement, as well as ongoing commitments  the Sta te 
has  made as described in this plan.  
The 8 recommended focus areas for the Decade  of Action : 
Promote a 
Sustainable 
Economic Recovery 
through strategies 
that support 
local agriculture, 
green workforce 
development and 
education, and 
sustainable and 
regenerative tourism.Reduce 
Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
by continuing to 
monitor the state's 
emissions and reduce 
greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions 
through strategies in 
the energy, 
transportation, 
agriculture and waste 
sectors.
Advance Equity by 
ensuring equitable 
access to resources, 
addressing affordable 
housing and homelessness crises, 
and improving gender 
equity.Institutionalize 
Sustainability 
Throughout 
Government  
by increasing the 
government's 
capacity through 
institutionalized 
collaboration to 
address sustainability and greening 
government 
operations.Improve Cli mate 
Resilience by 
continuing to monitor 
and adapt to climate 
impacts and take 
actions to increase 
the resilience of the 
natural and built 
environments and 
their occupants.
Preserve 
the Natural 
Environment, 
including a focus on 
clean water, marine 
resources and 
ecosystems, and 
natural resource 
protection. Adva nce Sustainable 
Communities
 through 
strategies that improve 
land use and access 
to green space, advance 
sustainable practices in 
schools, and encourage 
sustainable buildings 
and infrastructure.
Perpetuate 
Traditional 
Ecological Knowledge  
and 
Values as H awai‘i 
collectively tackles 
these sustainability and 
climate challenges.1
5 6 7 82 3 4
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    21
HAWAI‘I'S COMMITMENT TO 
THE SDGS
The United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development identified 17 SDGs that represent an urgent call 
for global action to end poverty, improve health and edu cation, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth, 
while tackling climate change and preserving natural resources.  The United Nations designated 2020–2030 as 
the “Decade of Action,” a time to accelerate progress toward the SDGs through sustainable solutions in order to 
achieve the goals by 2030 (United Nations 2021).  There is a renewed sense of urgency to reduce emissions to 
mitigate the impacts of climate change and meet the goals of the United Nations Paris Agreement to limit global 
warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, above pre-industrial levels (IPCC 
2018). The UN SDGs provide a framework to work in alignment with the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
This plan uses the SDGs as a framework for assessing the State's current commitments to sustainability and 
priority actions to take over the coming decade.  The SDGs also form the framework of Hawai‘i's Aloha+ 
Challenge,
 a voluntary initiative that sets six statewide sustainability targets by 2030. 
Hawai‘i enters the Decade of Action with tremendous progress underway.  The COVID-19 global pandemic 
marked both a moment of crisis and a moment of opportunity for Hawai‘i's adaptive change, with the SDGs 
serving as a focal point to guide us toward a sustainable economic recovery.
The Role of Local Plans in Advancing Sustainability and Climate Resilience
The County General Plans and the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan are foundationally related within the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act.  Both planning requirements are codif ied within Part II, the Implementation Section of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act, and more importantly, the County General Plans serve as a foundation for county 
planning.  The current and future efforts to integrate the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Hawai‘i's legal and
statutory sustainability targets, sustainable development, and climate resilience into County General Plans can 
continue to play a pivotal role in county land use planning.  Other local plans and directives directly address 
climate change. In 2019, the Hawai‘i County C
ouncil adopted Resolution 322-19, similarly the Maui County 
Council adopted Resolution 19-209, both declaring a Climate Emergency (County of Hawai‘i 2019, County of 
Maui 2019).  Honolulu Mayor's Directive 18-2 requires
 “all City departments and agencies to take a proactive 
approach to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt projects to the physical impacts of climate change.”
Ex
amples of these plans include:
 
The County of Hawai‘i General Plan 2040 is being drafted to contain goals, measurable 
sustainability objectives, and policies and actions to achieve these sustainability objectives. 
The draft plan is structured using a sustainability framework to guide the development of the 
plan.  The County of Hawai‘i's draft General Plan 2040 incorp orates both climate change 
mitigation and adaptation strategies, and is intended to respect the culture, character, beauty 
and history of the Island of Hawai‘i while attempting to integr ate balance between 
environmental stewardship, social and community equity and economic sufficiency in order to 
meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations of the 
island to meet their own needs.  
Th e County of Hawai‘i Climate Action Plan is also concurrently  being drafted to include 
sectoral suggestions to: reduce emissions, including requiring owners and managers of multi-
family dwellings and multi-tenant commercial buildings to provide recycling; promote a 
circular economy that is designed to minimize pollution, extraction of fossil fuels, and raw 
materials; support using financial mechanisms to incentivize waste reduction; proposes County 
codes in ways that maximize landfill diversion such as requiring recycling at State and County 
offices, eliminating the sale of Styrofoam and single use  plastics, and prohibiting the disposal of 
organic waste at landfills; and promote pollution prevention and the adoption of sustainable 
practices by companies, communities, governmental organiza tions, and individuals.  
 22
The County's long-range planning documents  (RO H Ch apter 24) contain policies to reduce contam ination 
and non-point source pollution, increase wate r con servation, protect sensitive wetland environments, and  
are consistent with the Honolulu Board of Wate r Supply's W aters hed Management Plans (ROH Chapter 30). 
These County long-range development plans address K-12 sc hool facilities and those in potential growth 
areas support coordinated capacity planni ng, and  co-l ocation with parks and shared use facilities  with parks 
whe never feasible. Long-range planning docume nts incl ude policies that promote agriculture for the ‘Ewa,  
Ko‘olau Poko, Ko‘olau Loa, North Shor e, Wai‘anae, and Central O‘ahu regions.
The City and County of Honolulu Climate Ac tion Plan  (2020-2025) serves as a roadmap over 5 years 
aimed at reducing Honolulu’s biggest emitting sectors—t ransportation net works, building operations, and 
waste systems with 9 distinct strat egies and 47 measurable actions.
Th e O‘ahu Resilience Strategy describes key  action items to combat and prepare for the most 
devastating effects of climate change.  Core action ite ms include developing and implementing climate 
adaptation strategies and fostering a widespread un der stan ding of the threats of climate change to Hawa i‘i. 
The strategy also recommends partnerships and liaiso ns to leverag e volunteer and nonprofit assets and 
improve resilience. 
The Kaua‘i Kākou, Kaua‘i County's General Plan  was recen tly published in 2018.  The General Plan 
is based on the community's vision and goals  for Kaua‘i 's future: that Kaua‘i will be a sustainable island , a 
unique and beautiful place, a healthy and res ilient peopl e, and an equitable place with opportunity f or al l.  
The Kaua‘i County General Plan's vision of a s ustainable island describing the overarching g oal to grow 
responsibly to meet the needs of current and future  generations without depleting resources.  According 
to the General Plan, Kaua‘i residents widely agre ed that sustainability should drive the planning f or the  
future.  The Kaua‘i County General Plan explain s that  sustainable development does not endanger the 
natural systems that support life: air, wate r, soil, an d living organisms.  Sustainable development means 
meeting the basic needs of society and exte nding to all people the opportunity to satisfy their aspir ations for 
a better life.   As the plan explains, sustainable  development means integrating economic and 
environmental considerations in policy an d decision -makin g.Th e Maui Island Plan, adopted in 2012, reviews factors t hat influence the physical, social, and economic 
development of the island.  The plan addresses key environmental, housing, and economic development 
issues to provide recommendations to protect the community an d future generations.  Similarly, the West 
Maui Community Plan provides long-term vision for the com munity and is intended to serve as a policy 
guide for County agencies. 
The Lāna‘i Community Plan and the Moloka‘i Island Community Plan explore island specific 
challenges and opportunites regarding future sustainability.  The plans then provide a strategic framework 
to
 guide policies and actions needed to address the m ajor issues identified in the near future. 
The City and County of Honolulu's General Plan includes polic ies to:
• Prot
ect freshwater resources including stream retention, pollution protection, and designing surface
drainage and flood control systems in a way that will help preserve their natural settings. 
• Retain the viabilit
y of agriculture on O‘ahu including sufficient land retention, diversification, and job
creation.
• Support educa
tion for all age groups, employable skills education, research institutions, and to make
Honolulu an education center for the Pacific.
• Meet housing o
bjectives to 1) ensure a balanced mix of housing opportunities and choices for all
residents at prices they can afford, 2) minimize speculation in land and housing, and 3) provide 
residents with a choice of living environments that are close to employment, recreation, and commercial centers and are adequately served by transportation networks and public utilities.
Hawai'i 2050 Sust
 ainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    23
This section of the plan provides an overview of exi sting  
commi tments Hawai‘i has made toward each of the  17 SDGs, 
with a focus on existing laws, policies, an d strat egic plan s.  The 
list of laws, policies and plans is not exhaus tive,  but rat her  is 
intended as a representative sample demonstrat ing Hawai‘i's 
commi tment for each SDG, or its readiness to  address each  SDG 
based on existing policy structures and legal co mmit ments. 
The policy structures and legal instruments  provid e a 
framework for action.  It is also important  to consid er h ow this 
framework is being used to advance climate chan ge and 
sustainability goals, monitor results, and contin ue to  evolve 
state programs. 
This section is organized around the 17 SDGs. While presented 
as individual sections below, the 17 SDGs are interde pendent: 
imp leme nting actions under one goal can contribu te to  progress 
under many others. 
Each SDG section includes two components: OVERVIEW OF THIS NEXT 
SDG SECTION 
The Overview describes the 
importance of the SDG to the state of Hawai‘i, including Hawai‘i's challenges and opportunities associated with each SDG.Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 
summarizes the key la ws, policies, and strategic 
action plans that currently address each SD G.  
This section demonstrates Hawai‘i's 
commi tment t o the SDG and identifies relevant 
voluntary initiatives and informal targets th at 
have been set through agency policies, county  
governments, statewide initiatives, or s trate gic 
plans.1 2
 24
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    25Sustainable Development Goal 1
End poverty in all its forms everywhereNO POVERTY  
This UN goal includes targets that address: 
•Reducing extreme poverty
•Halving the number of people living in poverty
•Ensuring social protection sy
stems are in place to cover
poor and vulnerable populations
•Ensuring equal rights to economic resour
ces and
access to basic services, property, natural resources,
and technology
•Reducing vulnerability and exposure to climate-relatedextreme events and other disasters
Overview 
Many of Hawai‘i's residents struggle to afford housing, utilities, transportation, healthcare, 
and food.  Hawai‘i has the nation's highest rate of homelessness per capita, with an estimated 
15,000 homeless individuals throughout the state (State of Hawai‘i 2019).  The COVID-19 
global  pandemic has exacerbated existing economic stressors, dramatically decreased visitor 
arrivals, prompted unprecedented business closures, and increased unemployment 
throughout the state. 
 As a result, ALICE® (Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed) 
households have increased dramatically.
In addition to the stressors related to the COVID-19 global pandemic that have exacerbated 
existing economic hardships, Hawai‘i is also experiencing increased impacts from climate 
change, such as such as flooding, sea level rise, drought, and rising temperatures, that place 
further pressure on vulnerabl
e populations and communities. 
The State's most recent (2018) Self-Sufficiency Incom
e Standard estimates found that two of 
the five family composition groups (one adult, one child, and one adult, two children) were 
bel
ow self-sufficiency income needs (DBEDT 2019).  Further, limited access to broadband 
technology constrains economic access for all.
 26Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 1
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRA TEGIC PLANS  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-22 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-Cultural Advancement—Social Services
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-106 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines for the Provision of Affordable Housing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §201-3 (a)(5): Specific 
Research and Promotional Functions of the 
Department of Business, Economic Development, 
and TourismSets objectives to improve public and private social services to enable self-reliance and 
well-being.
Prioritizes the need and access for affordable housing as a priority guideline for the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act to address as an issue of statewide concern.
Requires the Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism (DBEDT) to 
establish and biennially update self-sufficiency income standards, the amount of money individuals and families require to meet their basic needs without subsidies.
Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study (2019)  
Affordable Rental Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan (2018)
Housing Functional Plan (2017)Serves as a comprehensive assessment of housing markets in Hawai‘i to provide housing 
partners with relevant and crucial information.
Provides specific strategies, policies, and priority actions  to address the current housing 
shortage in Hawai‘i through a statewide plan ning system. Provides policymakers with a plan to achieve the afforda ble rental housing goal of 22,500 
units by December 31, 2026 laid out in Act 127 (Session  Laws of Hawai‘i 2016). 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    27
Developed a baseline of affordable rental units curren tly in the  planning stages or under 
development, implementing actions, and measures of eff ectiveness to guide achievement 
of the affordable rental housing goals.
Provides next step recommendations on ways to support affordable rental housing in the 
state.
Guides the implementation of the Hawai‘i State Plan housing goals and objectives.
Covers four priority areas, which include expanding and preserving rental housing 
opportunities, increase homeownership, addressing barriers to residential development, 
and maintaining a housing information system.
Includes clearly defined problem statements followed b y objectives, policies, implementing 
actions and accessory details such as lead organization, budget estimates, start date and 
measures of effectiveness.Defines state policy objectives for advancing opportunities f or affordable housing and the 
orderly development of residential areas sensitive to community needs and other land 
uses.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-19 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—HousingSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Volunteers from Pu‘uhonua o Puna at the hub’s food pantry distributing emergency 
food and supplies to evacuees and residents affected by the 2018 Kīlauea lava eruption.  
Photo Credit: Harry Durgin. 
Photo Right: Fissure 8, officially named Ahu‘ailā‘au, from  the 2018 Kīlauea lava eruption. 
Photo Credit: Andrew Richard Hara. 
Over 15% of Hawai‘i's 
residents living in a lava 
flow hazard zone make less than $30,000 a year (HIEMA 2018a). Low income is among the major risk factors for an individual's disaster resiliency, as are community-level components like physical infrastructure. However, community resiliency also involves another critical component: social capital. In fact, this element can be an even better predicator of efficient disaster recovery than economic characteristics (Aldrich & Meyer 2015).In May 2018, “fissure 8,” officially named “Ahu‘ailā‘au,” 
opened in the Puna district of Hawai‘i Island, marking the 
start of an unprecedented eruption in modern Hawai‘i for
 its 
size and extent of the damage (NPS 2018).  While considered an 
economically disadvantaged area, behind that economic picture 
Puna is greatly abundant in social capital, and the community's 
leverage of its interpersonal strengths was key to weathering the 
Kīlauea eruption (County of Hawai‘i 2020).  The epitome of this 
could be seen in Pu‘uhonua o Puna, or “The Hub”: a spontaneous 
organization by Puna residents to give evacuees the support they 
needed during the eruption.  Aptly named, Pu‘uhonua o Puna 
offered people a place of refuge and sense of belonging, and personal 
networks were utilized to great effect to meet almost any need as it 
arose.  An awareness of the mental and physical toll of the eruption 
led to organizing support like art and music therapy, massage, and 
healthcare screenings.  Hot meals, made by partners like World 
Central Kitchen, were offered with a flexibility suited to families. A 
mobile showering unit on loan from Project Vision gave a much-
needed place to refresh, and led to grassroots fundraising and 
purchase of a unit dedicated to Hawai‘i Island.  Underpinning 
everything was a spirit of service, generosity, and dedication as 
volunteers and evacuees alike—and oftentimes they were one and 
the same—rose up to help and support fellow community members. 
Pu‘uhonua o Puna also built up a new generation of local leadership, 
ready to apply lessons learned from The Hub to catalyze further 
capacity-building efforts.  Even two years later, this experience 
provided a template for other organizations like Vibrant Hawai‘i to 
scale the solution and deliver a COVID-19 global pandemic 
response island wide.  This shows that with a strong social network, 
communities are far more capable than pure economics would 
belie, and when given the tools and a chance, they can and will 
direct their own resiliency trajectory.
 28SUSTAINING HAWAI‘IHawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    29ZERO HUNGER  
Sustainable Development Goal 2 
End hunger
, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable agriculture
This UN goal includes targets for ending hunger, achieving 
food security, improving nutrition, and promoting sustainable 
 agriculture. 
Overview
Hawai‘i relies heavily on imported food, due to challenges associated with local food 
production (including the cost of land and labor, lack of available capital, lack of investment, 
lack of infrastructure, and competition with subsidized and/or less regulated agriculture). 
Hawai‘i imports approximately 85–90% of its food and is particularly reliant on imports for 
eggs, milk, and livestock (Office of Planning 2012).  However, the state is located thousands of 
miles from its imported food sources, which creates vulnerability at the supply-chain level.  
The COVID-19 global pandemic increased awareness of the state's heavy reliance on imported 
food.
From  an economic standpoint, it is less expensive to import food tha n to grow it locally. 
Moreover, demand for local food is limited as many consumers are not aware of the benefits of 
locally grown food or have difficulty identifying it in markets (Office of Planning 2012). 
Additionally, many residents of Hawai‘i already struggle to afford food at current prices.  This 
has been exacerbated due to the pandemic.  As of March 2021, a University of Hawai‘i study 
found that 58% of Hawai‘i families experience food insecurity, and 15% report not having 
enough food sometime or often in the previous week (Pruitt et a
l. 2021).  Furthermore, about 
370,000 (approximately 26%) of Hawai‘i residents live in food deserts, which means they live 
more than one mile (if in urban areas) or more than 10 miles (if in rural  areas) from grocery 
stores with access to fresh foods, and thus may rely more on processed or fast foods that have 
less nutritional  content (Brace et al. 2020).
Achieving this SDG will bring multiple benefits. Sustainable local food production can enhance 
the l
ivelihood of local  farmers, reduce emissions from transporting food long distances to 
Hawai‘i, and improve the resilience of communities to economic shocks such as climate-related 
storm events, public health crises, natural disasters, or other supply chain disruptions. 
Strategic capital investment and policies could address and remove some of the barriers to 
local food production (these recommendations are found on page 98 of this plan). 
 30Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 2
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-7 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and 
Policies for the Economy—Agriculture
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205, Part III: 
Important Agricultural Lands
Act 151, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019Encourages the purchase and use of locally grown food.
Assures the availability of suitable farmland with adequate water resources.Supports diversified agriculture.Increases opportunities for an agricultural education and livelihood.Increases the use of traditional Hawaiian farming systems and traditional Hawaiian crops.
Declares that the people of Hawai‘i have a substantial interest in the health and 
sustainability of agriculture as an industry in the state.
Defines important agricultural lands and protects those lands from use for 
non-agricultural purposes.
Identifies a compelling state interest in conserving the state's agricultural land resource 
base and assuring the long-term availability of agricultural lands for agricultural use.
Requires development of a strategic action plan to achieve doubling food production goal 
and equivalent consumption.
Department of Agriculture Strategic Plan to Double Local Food Production and Increase Food Exports by 2030 
Good Food for All: Advancing Health Equity through 
Hawai‘i's Food System (2018)
Office of Planning's Increased Food 
Security and Food Self-Sufficiency Strategy (2012)Will outline strategic actions to achieve  the state's doubling food production target.
Defines three strategic objectives: 
1)increase demand for and access to locally grown foods,
2)increase production of locally grown foods, and
3)provide policy and organizational support to meet food self-sufficiency needs.Identifies strategies for improving food security in Hawai‘i.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes an overarching goal to at least double local food production 
by 2030, with 20–30% of food consumed grown locally. The initiative includes five underlying indicators to support this goal.
Statewide Agricultural Land Use Baseline (2015)Updates a 1980 survey and provides current information and maps on the locations of Hawai‘i’s farms and ranches. The baseline study is intended to help industry, government and the community in making decisions that affect agriculture land use in the state.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
  ||    31
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
According to the USDA, 93%  
of farms in Hawai‘i were 
family-owned in 2017 (USDA 
2017b).  Hawai‘i's agricultural 
sector is predominantly small, 
family-owned farms and 
ranches, with over 60% of all 
operations making less than 
$10,000 in annual sales 
(USDA 2017b).  To meet the 
State's target of doubling local 
food production by 2030, 
much work will be needed to 
support these families in 
scaling up production.Agriculture is particularly prominent on Hawai‘i Islan d, 
wh ose farms make up nearly half of all state agric ultur al 
sales (USDA 2017a).  Thus, when the COVID-19 global pandemic 
left agricultural producers hard-hit, the Co unty of Hawai‘i 
partnere d with the Hawai‘i Farm Bureau to create t he Big Island 
Rura l Agricultural Industries Distribution and  Grow ing En terprise 
Strateg ies (BRIDGES) Program: a dual-focus prog ram to  address 
the burgeoning food insecurity while su pportin g the  island's 
agricultural industry (Truesdale 2021).  T he program r eceived 
funding  from the County of Hawai‘i, private donors, an d fed eral 
CA RES funding to keep producers on the island growin g while 
securing  food for families impacted by the pandemic (T ruesdale 
2021).  To provide more assistance to the comm uni ty, th e State 
of Hawa i‘i temporarily expanded the “DA BUX” ( Double Bucks) 
program—which matches SNAP recipients‘ dollars  up to $10 a  
day whe n buying local produce—and doubled this matc h to $25 a 
day and included the purchase of local ground bee f and egg s 
(Ulupono Initiative 2020).  Although both B RIDGE S and the DA 
BUX  expansion ended in December 2020, SB 512 was pas sed during 
the  2021 Legislative Session to provide a permanent r evis ion of the 
DA BUX program which removes the dollar-amount cap and all ows 
for local healthy proteins to be added to the pro gram's  eligibi lity list 
(Hawai‘i State Legislature 2021a).*   The  success and popularity of 
the se programs garnered awareness to ensure equitab le food acces s, 
as well as highlighted the importance of incr eas ing mar ket demand 
for local agricultural products in order to ach ieve the  State's 
sustainability target to double local food pro ductio n by 2030.
Photo Left: Tomato farm on Hawai‘i  Island.  Photo Credit: Hawai‘i  Farm Bureau. 
Photo Right: Farm-to-Table produce farm in Waimea, Hawai‘i  Island. 
Photo Credit: State of H awai‘i , Hawai‘i  Tourism Authority. 
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
and transmitted to the Governor for consideration.
 32Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    33
GOOD HEALTH
AND WELL-BEING
Sustainable Developmen t Goal 3 
Ensur
e healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
UN targets related to this goal include: 
•Reducing the negative impacts of environment
al factors on health
•Combating communicable and non-communicable diseases through
improv
ed and expanded prevention, and the support of research and
development for vaccines and medicines
•Achieving universal healthcare cov
erage and access to essential
healthcare services
•Expanding the availability of mental health resources, substanceabuse treatment, and sexual and reproductive healthcare services
Overview
Hawai‘i is often considered one of the healthiest states in the nation, in part due to high public 
health funding, air quality, and low prevalence of obesity relative to the rest of the United States.  
In addition, Hawai‘i's Prepaid Health Care Act of 1974 increased access to affordable, quality 
heal
thcare.  Less than 4% of Hawai‘i's residents lack health insurance.  However, this rate increases 
for Native Hawaiians to about 15% (Creamer 2019a).  Upwards of 25% of non-Hawaiian Pacific 
Islanders were without health insurance as of 2013 (DOH 2020).  A recent federal law was passed 
through the COVID-19 Economic Relief legislation signed in 2020, which reinstated that citizens of 
the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau are entitled to federal Medicaid 
coverage, throughout the U.S., and especially in Hawai‘i (Public Law 116-260).  This expanded 
community access to healthcare services during the COVID-19 pandemic, and assisted Hawai‘i-
based community healthcare providers to deliver additional  treatment to these vulnerable 
communities.
Other health disparities have been documented across socioecono
mic groups in Hawai‘i.  The 
federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that residents of Hawai‘i living in high-
income zip codes have average lifespans about 10 years longer than those living in low-income zip 
codes (DOH  2020).
Widespread health challenges remain, particularly the high rates of diabetes. About half of 
Hawai‘i's residents are at risk of developing diabetes or currently have it (DOH 2020).  This 
is tied in part to the issues described under SDG 2 above: food security is an issue for 58% of 
Hawai‘i residents (Pruitt et al. 2021).  Additionally, residents who receive food assistance through 
Hawai‘i's emergency food relief system often receive donated foods that have high levels of fat and 
sugar and poor nutritional quality, impacting residents who receive food assistance (Creamer 
2019a). 
Other health challenges include lack of access to mental health services, rising e-cigarette use by 
youth, public heal
th impacts from climate change (such as heavy rain, flooding, sea level rise, and 
hurricanes), and poor diet and exercise trends.  There is also a dearth of detox facilities to help 
treat those with drug- and alcohol-related disorders (DOH 2020).  Notably, Hawai‘i was ranked 
among the 10 worst states in the United Health Foundation 2018 Report in two categories: 
excessive drinking and Tdap (Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis) immunizations (Creamer 2019b).
 34Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 3
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-20 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural A
dvancement—Health
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 321—
Department of Health Includes provisions for improving access t o physical and mental health treatment, 
including substance abuse, preventing contamination by pesticides and hazardous 
substances, and reducing health disparities among disproportionately affected 
demographics.
Directs the development of environmental goals and objectives to ensure that air quality, 
land, coastal waters, inland waters, and groundwater are protected.  
(§321-1.1: Development of environmental goals and objectives)
Organizes environmental protection programs to improve the coordination of 
environmental planning and oversight. (§321- 1.1: Development of environmental goals 
and objectives)
Outlines the powers, duties, and functions of the Department of Health relating to 
preventative medicine (§321-31), dental health needs (§321-62), nutrition training and 
education (§321-81), children's mental health services (§321-171), substance abuse 
prevention, rehabilitation, treatment, education, and research (§321-193), and maternal 
and child health (§321-321), among other areas.
State Health Improvement Plan, Healthy 
Hawai‘i 2
020: A Community Health Plan 
(2020)
2016-2020 Tobacco Use Prevention and 
Control in Hawai‘i: Five-Year Strategic 
Plan (2016)
Hawai‘i Coordinated Chronic Disease 
Framework Plan (2014)
Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Pla n 
(2013)Includes goals, strategies, and actions that address health and well-being, disease 
prevention, healthy lifestyles, healthy environment, and physical and mental healthcare.
Identifies community health needs of Hawai‘i communities with special attention paid to 
health disparities and the needs of vulnerable populations.
Identifies an integrated approach and is meant to be used as a guide to enable 
coordination o
f multiple programs across common risk factors, interventions, 
and strategies.
Identifies priority objectives to integrate physical activity and nutrition into the daily lives 
of the people of Hawai‘i.Identifies the priority populations, people using tobacco at the highest rate in Hawai‘i, and 
measurable objectives to achieve by 2020. 
Outlines strategies, recommended community activities and targeted outputs, and key 
outcome indicators to measure progress towards achieving health equity.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  Partnerships with the State and community-based health care providers have contributed 
to
 the delivery of a broad range of services at schools including co-located health 
centers, skilled nursing, immunization clinics, and screening events to address student 
health needs.  Primary prevention strategies to develop student skills, knowledge, and 
positive health behaviors are reinforced by the Wellness Guidelines and include nutritious 
school meal programs, comprehensive health education, and standards-based physical 
education programs (DOE 2021). Educational attainment has also been shown to 
improve public health and health equity.
Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030 (202 0) Serves as a ten year strategic plan to prevent and reduce the burden of chronic disease in 
Hawai‘i and reinforces the following chronic disease prevention and management strategic 
plans for the state: Hawai‘i Asthma Plan 2030,  Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030, Hawai‘i 
Diabetes Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Heart Disease and Stroke Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Physical 
Activity and Nutrition Plan 2030, and the Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 
2030.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    35
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
There are 322.6 practicing 
doctors in Hawai‘i for  
ev
ery 100,
000 people 
(HRSA 2020). Although 
Hawai‘i is a top-ranked 
state in this regard, the fact 
remains that healthcare 
providers ar
e distributed 
unevenly acros
s the state 
and not everyone can afford 
healthcare (HRSA 2020, 
KFF 2019).  Increasing 
physical and financial 
access to healthcare for all 
residents will need to be a 
continued priority to ensure 
a sustainable Hawai‘i.As the island's only Federally Qualified Health 
Center, Lāna‘i Community Health Center serves as a 
cor nerstone of continued efforts to provide healthcare 
services to Lāna‘i's residents (HRSA 2021).  Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center's goal is to pr
ovide “culturally 
sensitive, holistic, patient-centered” care, offering services like 
language translation, behavioral health, obstetrics, internet 
access, and assistance in applying for public benefits.  As a 
Feder
ally Qualified Health Center, these s
ervices are available 
for everyone regardles
s of their ability to pay for medical care. 
In a place with very limited medical facilities—the island 
only has one ambulance and four beds in its emergency room 
at Lāna‘i Community Hospital—and considering that over 
three-fifths of Lāna
‘i Community Health Center's pa
tients 
are low-income, having affordable access to primary and 
specialty health services and assistance in navigating the 
healthcare system is paramount
 for community members (Wu 
2020, Meyers 2020, Lāna‘i Community Health Center 2020). 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center further expands its reach 
to patients through its telehealth program, for which it has 
been nationally recognized, and pr
oviding educ
ation to the 
community on important wellness topics in an approachable, 
culturally sensitive way (Lāna‘i Community Health Center 
2020, HIMSS 2018).  During the COVID-19 global pandemic, 
coordinating and managing patient care became even more 
imperative to avoid overwhelming Lāna‘i's medical system. 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center work
ed together with the 
other Lāna‘i medical agencies to provide COVID-19 testing and 
vaccine distribution, assisted with contact tr
acing challenges
, 
and provided community education and translated outreach 
materials to increase vaccine buy-in (Grossman 2021). 
 Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center was also designa
ted to receive 
COV ID-19 vaccine doses to increase access for underserved 
populations, and by June 2021, Lāna‘i Community Health 
Center and other providers were able to provide COVID-19 
vaccinations to nearly 70% of the island's population (KITV 
2021, Cerizo 2021, U.S. Census Bureau 2011).  Lāna‘i's vaccine 
campaign demonstrated the impact of targ
eted resources 
delivered through trusted, local organizations, and although 
health inequalities still persist for Lāna‘i's residents, Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center remains committed to bringing 
care to and advocating for the needs of its patients in order to 
reduce those disparities.
Photo Left: Volunteers at Lāna‘i community COVID-19 vaccine distribution event.
Photo Credit: Lāna‘i Community Health Center. 
Photo Right: Lāna‘i Community Health Center, Lāna‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: Lāna‘i Community Health Center. 
 36Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    37QUALITY EDUCATION
Sustainable Development Goal 4
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities for all 
This UN goal promotes widespread “inclusive and equitable” 
education and educational opportunities for all ages and involves 
targets that address: 
•Achieving widespread literacy and numeracy
•Ensuring the equal access of all genders, abilities, and racial and
ethnic backgr
ounds to quality pre-primary, primary, secondary, and
tertiary education including technical school, vocational training,and university
•
Educating all learners with the knowledge and skills necessary topromot
e sustainable development
•Improving access to quality education by upgrading learningfacilities to be inclusive to all, increasing the number of qualifiedteachers, and expanding the number of scholarships available todeveloping countries
Overview
Measures of educational quality and performance from Hawai‘i's Every Student Succeeds A ct 
(ESSA) report show disparities between racial and socioeconomic subgroups of students, 
with Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, disabled, economically disadvantaged, English l earner, 
homeless, and students in foster care showing lower proficiencies in language arts, 
mathematics, and science; lower graduation rates; lower col lege-going rates; and higher 
chronic absenteeism rates than the average “
all students” group or their white counterparts 
(DOE 2020b).  However, National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) scores and 
other measures of academic success (e.g., the number of Advanced Placement exam takers, 
percent of 12th graders completing a Career and Technical Education program of study, etc.) 
have shown improvement in recent years (2016–2019) (DOE 2020a). 
To continue improvement, major focuses for this goal are on improving teacher recruitment 
and retention and increasing revenue sources for secondary education.
The challenge of providing both remote and in-person K-12 instruction when the COVID-19 
global pandemic struck Hawai‘i highlighted the increased need for broadband connectivity 
and d igital equity throughout the state.
 38Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 4
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-21 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—Education
The University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
The University of Hawai‘i Executive Policy 
4.202: System Sustainability
State of Hawai‘i Board of Education – K-12 
Literacy Policy 102-2
State of Hawai‘i Board of Education- 
Sustainability Policy 301-9Outlines educational priorities within the  state, in cluding accessible educational 
opportunities.
Includes targets to:
Increase the educational capital of the state by increasing the participation and completion 
of students, particularly Native Hawaiians, low- income students and those from 
underserved regions and populations and prepa ring them for success in the workforce and 
their communities.
Increase the percentage of working age adu lts with two-or four- year degrees to 55% by 
2025.
Requires the university system to develop goals, metrics,  and plans that address a 
comp rehensive sustainability strategy in operat ions, curr iculum, research and 
scholarship, campus and community engagement, and cultural connections.
Defines the literacy standards all studen ts must mee t to be deemed literate.
Dicta tes that schools must provide a “balanced and compr ehensive reading and writing 
program.”
Mandates schools have an effective early rea ding and writing program, and that students 
ident ified by the department as not proficient re ceive  necessa ry assistance and support.
Mandates the department to establish regulat ions and guidelines that include 
incorporating the importance of sustainability and e nvironmental stewardship at the 
classroom level.
Hawai‘i State Literacy Plan: 2020 (2020)
Hawai‘i State Department of Education and 
Board of Education Strategic Plan: 2017–
2020 (2016)
Hawai‘i Green Workforce: A Baseline 
Assessment (2010)Developed in partnership with state, university system , and community organizations. 
Provides comprehensive guidance and best pract ices for enhancing literacy across 
the state.
Provides a framework for assessing gre en jobs in the private sector.
Defines green jobs as those that engage in at least o ne of five core green areas: (1) 
Generate clean, renewable, sustainable energy; (2) Re duce  pollution and waste, 
conserve natural resources, recycle; (3) Energy e fficien cy; (4) Education, training 
and support of a green workforce; and (5) Natural,  environmen tally-friendly 
production.Outlines specific goals, objectives, and actions to pursue educational goals in the state 
through 2020, including:
Increase Hawai‘i's graduation rate to 90% by 2025, which would make the state's on-time 
graduation rate one of the highest in the nation.
Ensure 55% of working age adults (25–64 years o ld) have a  two- or four-year college 
degree by the year 2025. This is supported by the Hawai‘i P-2 0 Partnerships for 
Education.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes multiple ed ucation-related goals to be achieved by 2030. 
These include ensuring access to inclusive, qu ality educat ion for all people, providing 
learner-driven educational experiences that ensure all lea rners acquire the knowledge and 
skills needed to thrive and build a sustainable  future; providing ‘¯aina-based education and 
stewardship opportunities that foster conn ectio n to land, ‘ohana, and communities; and 
creating pathways for local-global servant lead ership. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Department of Labor and Indu strial Relations developed the Hawai‘i 
Green Jobs Initiative and accompanying porta l, which provides services for job seekers 
and employers as well as access to green trainin g programs (DLIR 2021). 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    39
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike's three  core  programs include Māla ma Hāloa, Mahele Farm, and 
its foundational Building Program; each aptly equipped to provide vocational training and 
educational opportunities to Hāna youth.  Photo Credit : Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike.
Photo Right: Hāna Town and Hāna Bay of the is lan d of Maui. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i To urism Au thority .
Fro m 2013 to 2017, 48.4% of 
Haw ai‘i-born residents who 
moved out-of-state did so for 
job-related reasons (DBEDT 
2021a).  This phenomenon, 
known as “brain drain,” is 
especially prevalent in younger 
residents, and while the causes 
of outmigration are varied, 
evide nce suggests that the types 
and ava ilability of jobs outside 
of Hawai‘i are a prime factor 
(DBEDT 2021a). 
Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike (in 
wor king one learns) is the ‘Ōlelo 
No‘e au for the current da y 
educational term describing 
“expe riential learning.”  Based 
in Hāna, Maui, Ma Ka Hana 
Ka ‘Ike is also a nonprofit 
prov iding youth vocational 
training through construction 
and agriculture apprenticeship 
programs and a lo‘i restoration 
and ku‘i kalo program. Commu nity needs and the interests of apprentice s guid e the 
specific projects within each program.  Past  undertak ings 
include constructing “age-in-place” modification s to kū puna 
homes, restoring once productive agricult ural landscap es 
for community wellbeing and sustenance, and ongoing 
revitalization of cultural and place-based pr actices, including 
‘ōlelo Hawai‘i and Hāna regionalisms.  Even afte r the COVID-19 
global pandemic shut down in-person train ing, Ma Ka Hana 
Ka ‘Ike adapted, and apprentices directe d their ow n at-home  
projects (with virtual support from organization s taff ) to 
take ownership of their role in their famil ies' well-b eing. 
Furthe rmore, even though some effects of the pandem ic were 
tempered by Hāna's robust subsistence economy and t ight-
knit culture, unmet needs remained and Ma Ka Han a Ka ‘ Ike 
wor ked with partners to provide for them, incl udin g through 
foo d distribution and a Certified Nursing Assi stant trai ning 
program.  In sum, the organization's focus is  on foste ring 
service, connection to community, and self-esteem in 
apprentices through community capacity-building, wh ile giving 
them marketable skills and introduction to career path ways for 
success.  In a tourism-heavy economy, this exposur e to oth er job 
fields—and linking such jobs to community needs—em powe rs 
apprentices to direct their own futures and th at of t heir  home. 
Many apprentices remain in or return to Hāna after finishing 
their apprenticeships, with several becoming appre ntice 
trainers themselves and other leaders in  the commun ity. 
Hence , Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike demonstrates the suc cess of 
investing in community to sustain community, and t he strength 
of a community's ties to one another is key to its re siliency.
 40Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    41Sustainable Development Goal 5 
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girlsGENDER EQUALITY
UN targets to achieve gender equality and empower women include: 
•Ending all forms of discrimination and violence against womene
verywhere in both public and private spheres
•Supporting women's meaningful participation in all levels o
f
decision-making in political, economic, and public life
•Ensuring equal access for women to property owner
ship, financial
services, economic resources, and technological resources topromote empowerment of women
•
Certifying universal access to sexual and reproductive healthcareand reproductive rights as agreed to in accordance with theProgramme of Action of the International Conference onPopulation and Development and the Beijing Platform for action
Overview
Gender equality in Hawai‘i has advanced in recent years.  Hawai‘i has the second-highest 
gender earnings ratio out of all  states and ranks eighth in the United States for the number 
of women el
ected to office (AAUW 2020).  While better than the national  average, women in 
Hawai‘i make about 83 cents for every dollar earned by men and about 9% of women in 
Hawai‘i live in poverty (NWLC 2021).
Native Hawaiian women are particularly vulnerable to inequalities.  They have the highest 
rates of infant mortality in Hawai‘i, high rates of post-partum depression, high health risks 
such as obesity and cancer, and lower levels of business ownership compared with other 
demographics (OHA 2018).  Further, pay equity remains an issue: Native Hawaiian women 
earn 70 cents for every dollar a man makes and 79 cents for every dollar a Native Hawaiian 
man makes (Commission on the Status of Women 2020). 
The Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women notes in Hawai‘i's first report on 
sex trafficking survivors that sex trafficking is a problem of significant concern.  Survivors 
of sex trafficking may be disproportionately Native Hawaiian women and girls due to land 
dispossession, exposure to sexual  violence, cultural dislocation, intergenerational trauma, and 
ongoing inequities (ASU 2019).
Women's wellbeing and livelihoods in Hawai‘i were particularly at risk during the COVID-19 
global  pandemic.  Women have been disproportionately impacted during the pandemic as 
increased demands for caregiving, childc
are, and household services have fallen more on the 
shoulders of women.  Recent national  statistics report women represented 60% of workers 
that were laid off due to the pandemic.  Women in Hawai‘i are at the forefront of impacted 
industries s
uch as tourism and other service industries, which indicates the national 
unemployment trends by gender are likely to apply in Hawai‘i.  The global  pan demic has 
exacerbated these existing stressors on women.  Additionally, women have experienced 
increased incidence of domestic violence, sex trafficking, sexual  harassment, coercion by 
landlords, and interruptions to health services (Commission on the Status of Women 2020).
 42Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 5
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 
(b)(16): Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives a nd
Policies for the Economy—In General
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-24: Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-cultural 
Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal Well-Being
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil Rights 
Commission
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 378: Employment 
PracticesSets goal to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of Hawai‘i's 
population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objective to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of every 
individual and assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and other public 
services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in society. 
Prevents discrimination on the basis of race,  color, religion, age, sex, including gender 
identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or 
disability in employment, housing, public accommodations, or access to services 
receiving state financial assistance.
Prevents discriminatory practices, includin g on the basis of sex. 
A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for 
COVID-19 (2020)
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Annual 
Reports (2020)
Haumea: Transforming the Health of Native 
Hawaiian Women and Empowering Wāhine 
Well-Being (2019)Lays out a framework to re-examine the st atus quo to value unpaid work and 
address other key issues for gender equality in Hawai‘i.
Examines history and strategies for progress f or Native Hawaiian women on the 
basis of mental and emotional wellness, physical health, mother
hood, partner 
violence and incarceration, economic well-being, and leadership and civic 
engagement. Annual report on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong state civil rights laws by rebuilding 
capacity, m
aintaining, and restoring resources for state civil rights law enforcement. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    43
Outlaws disciminatory actions that deny, or attempt to deny, a person full and equal 
enjoyment of publicly available goods, resources, and accomodations.
Identifies and outlaws discriminatory practices related to real estate transactions.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 489: Discrimination in 
Public Accommodations 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 515: Discrimination in 
Real Property TransactionsSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
A March 2021 University 
of Hawai‘i study found that during the COVID-19 global pandemic, 58% of Hawai‘i families with children were food insecure, with 15% reporting that they did not have enough food in the past week.  This study also identified that food insecurity impacts were more significant for low-income families, and households in rural areas.  The study further found that 76% of families who identified as food insecure lost employment due to the COVID-19 global pandemic. Wai‘ana e Coast  Comprehensive Health Center is one of 
several organizations tackling food insecur ity in O‘ahu.   
With their “food is medicine” philosophy, Wai ‘anae Coast 
Comprehensive Health Center sought to increas e Wai‘ anae Coast 
commu nities’ access to nutritious foods for al l bud gets throug h 
initiatives such as the “Double Bucks” Mākek e Farmer s Market 
program for EBT/SNAP recipients, local produce prescriptio ns for 
patients with nutrition-related chronic dise ases, and Ke iki Food 
Pantries.  Their work fills a critical ne ed: e ven prior t o the COVID-19 
global pandemic, food insecurity was a significant  concern fo r the 
Wai ‘anae Coast, and the health center distrib uted 2 50,000 pounds of 
food in 2019.  However, due to impacts from t he COVID -19  global 
pandemic, 2,400,000 pounds of food were distribute d in  March-
Decem ber 2020 alone—nearly a tenfold increase.  Th is in creased 
commu nity need caused the Wai‘anae Coast Compreh ensive He alth 
Center to include a larger warehouse facility to pro vide additional 
commu nity assistance and provide food preservat ion an d storag e 
capabilities.  This increased capacity was m ade possible due to 
suppor t from private donors such as Honu‘apo and No 
Kid Hungry, federal CARES funding, and long-stan din g par tnerships 
with local farmers, the Hawai‘i Foodbank, and th e Hawai‘i F ood 
Service Alliance.  To further address com mu nity food  insecurity and 
resiliency challenges, Wai‘anae Coast Comprehen sive  He alth Cente r 
plans to establish an emergency food storag e facil ity on the Wai‘anae 
Coast, although these plans were paused to focus o n the d emands  
brought on by the COVID-19 global pandemic. 
Photo Left: Community food distribution to fa milie s in  need of food assistance during the 
COV ID-19 global pandemic.  Photo Credit: Wai‘ana e Co ast Com prehe nsive Health Center. 
Photo Right: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
Photo Credit: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
 44Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    45CLEAN WATER
AND SANITATION
Sustainable Developmen t Goal 6
Ensur
e availability and sustainable management of water and 
sanitation for all
This UN goal is to ensure the availability and sustainable 
management of water and sanitation for all and includes targets that 
address the following: 
•Achieving universal continuous access to saf
e drinking water and
sanitation by promoting water-use efficiency and sustainable
water withdrawals
•Integrating smart water re
source management at all levels
•Increasing water use efficiency across sectors
Overview
The State of Hawai‘i's Commission on Water Resources Management and the Department of 
Health's Clean Water Branch, Safe Drinking Water Branch, and Wastewater Branch work to 
protect surface and ground water qual ity in Hawai‘i.  Ground water is the primary source of 
Hawai‘i residents' drinking water.  The qual
ity of surface water protects and maintains 
natural e cosystems for shellfish, fish, and other wildlife, and allows for recreational activities 
near w ater sources, particularly important for the tourism industry in Hawai‘i.  Surface water 
also p rovides about 5% of Hawai‘i's drinking water supply.  In 2018, 100% of Hawai‘i's 
residents and
 visitors were served drinking water that fell below all maximum contaminant 
levels, and the c ompliance rates consistently exceed 95% (DOH 2019b). 
The Wastewater Branch is working toward the upgrade and elimination of cesspools. 
Cesspools
 release untreated domestic wastewater, nitrogen, and phosphorus, which can 
cause health i ssues, negative impacts to water quality, and harm to aquatic ecosystems such 
as coral reefs.  A s of 2019, there were approximately over 88,000 cesspools that pose a risk to 
Hawai‘i's water r esources (DOH 2019b).
In Hawai‘i, clean water concerns also relate to the exercise of traditional and customary 
Native
 Hawaiian practices.  Traditional and customary practices that depend on adequate 
flow (of both surface and ground waters) range from drinking water from natural sources, the 
gathering of
 stream species (like ‘o‘opu, ‘ōpae, and hı̄hı̄wai), practicing aquaculture in natural 
and modified pools and fishponds (loko i‘a), irrigation of taro (kalo) in flooded fields and 
other crops, and the use of water in ceremonial practices.  These depend on healthy water 
(e.g., sufficient volume, free from contaminants, and suitable temperature).
 46Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 6
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-15: Objectives and 
Policies for Facility Systems—Solid and Liquid Wastes
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-16 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—Water
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §174C-31(g)(6): Hawai‘i 
Water Plan Objectives
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342D-72: Cesspools; 
Mandatory Upgrade, Conversion, or Connection
Act 169, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016: Relating to 
Water Audits
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 174: State 
Water CodeDescribes wastewater treatment requirements for the state.
Covers sustainable water management, including wastewater/runoff reuse, water for 
agricultural use, and water conservation.
Requires that 100% of State and County facilities recycle water by 2045, with the exception 
of potable and drinking water.
Requires the conversion of all cesspools by 2050.
Requires standardized annual water audits of public water systems, and the Commission 
of Water Resource Management shall provide technical assistance.
Outlines a program of comprehensive water resources planning to address the problems of 
supply and conservation of water for purposes such as domestic uses, aquaculture uses, 
irrigation and other agricultural uses, power development, and commercial and industrial 
uses, with adequate provisions for the protection of t raditional and customary Hawaiian 
rights, and the protection of fish and wildlife, ecological balance, and scenic beauty. 
Protects reservations of water for current and foreseeable development and use of water 
by DHHL, consistent with Section 221 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act. Current 
and foreseeable uses are part of the reservation and are  required to have the full 
protections of being a Public Trust use of water. (HRS §174C-101(a)).
All Water Use Permits issued in Water Management Areas are subject to the rights of the 
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL) as provided in section 221 of the Hawaiian 
Homes Commission Act (§174C-49(a)(7)).
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Department of Health (DOH) State Health 
Improvement Plan, Healthy Hawai‘i 2020: A 
Community Health Plan. Environmental Health 
(2020)State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource 
Management (CWRM) Hawai‘i Water Plan (2021)
CWRM Water Resource Protection Plan Update 
(2019)
DOH Water Quality Plan (2019) State Water Projects Plan (2020) 
HDOA Agricultural Water Use and Development 
Plan (2019) 
The Rain Follows the Forest (2011)Hawa i‘i Water Conservation Plan (2013) Includes a goal to increase the percent of community water systems that provide drinking 
water that meets all applicable health-based drinking wat er standards to 99%.
Includes goals to increase the percentage of wastewater treatment plants in full compliance 
to 95% and increase the percentage of water reuse to 20%.
The objective of this plan is to protect and sustain ground and surface water resources, 
watersheds, and natural stream environments statewide. Such protection requires a 
comprehensive study of occurrence, sustainability, conservation, augmentation, and 
other resource management measures.
Outlines the regulations, standards, and resource management policies that define 
the quality to be maintained in ground- and surface-water resources.Provides a framework for planning and implementation  of water development programs to 
meet projected demands for State projects over a 20-year planning horizon. 
Provides a long-range management plan that assesses state  and private 
agricultural water use, supply and irrigation water systems. The plan is intended to 
be a master irrigation inventory plan which identifies system rehabilitation needs 
and prioritizes system repair. 
Identifies priority watersheds and outlines on-the-gr ound actions and projects 
required to protect and sustain Hawai‘i’s critical water sources.Identifies and implements water use and delivery efficiency measures to 
conserve the fresh water resources of the state.Consists of five discrete plans that each serve as guidance for the commission. 
DOH Water Reuse Task Force Report (2019) Identifies barriers and solutions to expanding water reuse in the state of Hawai‘i.
County Water Use and Development Plans These plans are prepared by each county to inventory all projected water demands 
within the county and ensure that the future water needs of the county are met. These 
county plans should set forth the allocation of water to land use in that county and 
maintain consistency with county zoning and land use policies. The plans serve to inform 
future land use planning and provide guidance to the Commission for decision-making 
on water allocations and water reservation requests.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    47
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
It's estimated Hawai‘i 
will need 529 million 
gallons of fresh water a 
day from its aquifers in 
2030 (Hawai‘i Community 
Foundation 2015).  Fresh 
water is a critical resource 
on an island, something 
Kānaka Maoli have long 
known and respected in 
their traditional laws, 
community organization, 
and religious beliefs.  To 
ensure the sustainability 
of our island communities, 
similar care must be taken 
to protect freshwater 
sources, particularly as water 
security is being challenged 
by a growing population, 
aging water infrastructure, 
pollution, invasive species, 
and climate change.As the largest groundwater user on O‘ahu, the Honolulu 
Board of Water Supply is aware of this kuleana to conserve 
water  supplies (Board of Water Supply 2016).  Their 2016 
Water Master Plan is one of several BWS initiatives to ensure they 
can provide water sustainably.  They are also part of the Hawai‘i 
Fresh Water Initiativ
e, a collaboration of government, academic, 
nonprofit, and private sector organizations to address water 
security.  Based on the Hawai‘i Fresh Water Initiative's findings in 
their 2016 Blueprint for Action, the Honolulu Board of Water Supply 
aligned their Water Master Plan priorities with the Hawai‘i Fresh 
Water Initiative's recommended focus areas: water conservation, 
aquifer recharge, and wastewater reuse.  Examples of this in the 
Water Master Plan include a proactiv
e leak detection team to reduce 
water loss, continued commitment to eight watershed partnerships 
(to prot
ect water from mauka to makai), and plans to expand the 
capacity of the Honouliuli Wastewater Recycling Facility to at least 
16 million gallons a day.  The Honolulu Board of Water Supply 
also utilizes a stakeholder advisory group for community feedback 
and representation.  This group's input was responsible for the 
inclusion of a dedicated water supply sustainability section in 
the plan.  Together, this comprehensive planning and community 
involvement furthers to provide safe water for O‘ahu's residents.
Photo Left: Recycled water is delivered to users through a system of pipes separat e from the drinking wate r distribution 
system.  It is safe for human contact, but it is not inten ded for drinking.  All pipes and fixtures using rec ycled water are easily 
identifiable by their distinc tive purple color.  Photo Credit: City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply. 
Photo Right: A watershed is a diverse and highly organ ized ecosystem which spe cializes in the capturing of  rai n and 
atmospheric moisture fro m the air and sky.  They are usually located in high mountains or valleys, which  then divert the 
water into rivers and st reams.  Watersheds are compose d of several layers of dense vegetation.  O‘ahu's w atershed can also 
be described as a Hawaii an rain forest, which captures an d saves large amount s of water.  
Photo Credit: City and County of Honolulu Board of Water S upply.  
 48Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    49AFFORDABLE AND 
CLEAN ENERGY
Sustainable Dev elopmen
t Goal 7
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy 
for all
The objective of this UN goal is to ensure universal access to 
“reliable, sustainable and modern energy services .” Targets to achieve 
this goal include: 
•Promoting investment in ener
gy infrastructure and clean energy
technology, with particular emphasis on least developed countries
•Improving global energy efficiency
•Increasing the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix
The energy sector is the largest source of e missions 
in Hawai‘i, accounting for 87% of t otal emissions. 
Emissions from transportation a ccounted for the 
largest share of energy sector e missions in 2016. 
Emissions from stationary energy c ombustion are the 
second largest source of energy s ector emissions, 
driven largely by emissions from e lectric power 
plants, petroleum refineries, and industry. 
While decarbonizing the electricity sector will g reatly 
reduce Hawai‘i's dependence on imported o il, 
electrification of the transportation sector 
and investments in alternative vehicle fuels are 
required for a complete shift away from fossil fuels 
for energy and transportation.  Ensuring local, 
renewable sources of energy will not only lower 
energy costs for end-users in all sectors of the 
economy, but also increase Hawai‘i's long-te rm 
energy security.
In regard to energy efficiency in buildings, Hawai‘i scored 16th in state efficiency and 7th in net 
incremental  electricity savings nationwide on the 2019 State Energy Efficiency Scorecard published by 
the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy.  The State passed minimum efficiency standards 
that help residents in Hawai‘i save money on utility bills.  However, there is still room to improve in 
developing policies for state government initiatives, transportation, low-income programs, energy 
efficiency program funding and spending, and codes and standards.
*At the date of publication, the bills from the  2021 legisla tive session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
and transmitted to the Governor for consideratio n.Overview
Ensuring affordable, reliable, clean, renewable, and sustainable energy is critical, due to Hawai‘i's 
isolated location and vulnerability to fluctuating energy prices and supply disruptions.  Hawai‘i d epends 
more on imported petroleum for its energy needs than any other state and has the highest
 average 
retail price of electricity in the nation given the state's lack of domestic oil, natural gas, or c oal 
resources.  In 2018, petroleum accounted for roughly 84% of Hawai‘i's energy consumption (see Figure 
1), compared to about 1% for the United States as a whole.  In Hawai‘i, the air transportation s ector 
accounts for the highest percentage of petroleum use, largely due to the tourism industry
 and the 
military, followed by ground transportation.  In 2021, HB 683* passed the Hawai‘i State L egislature to 
create a sustainable aviation fuel program within the Hawai‘i Technology Devel
opment C orporation to 
provide matching grants to Hawai‘i small business developing products related to s ustainable aviation 
fuel or greenhouse gas reduction from commercial aviation operations.
Petroleum  
84.4%Renewable  
Energy  
10.6%Coal  
4.9%
Natural 
Gas 
.1%
Source: HSEO (2020) Notes: Renewables includ e 
biomass, hydroelectric power, and other renewabl e 
sources such as solar and wind. Petroleum inc lude s 
jet fuel, residual fuel, distillate fuel oil, HGL, a nd 
other petr oleum sources.
Figure 1: Hawai‘i Energy Consumption by Source in 2018 
 50Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 7
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-10: Hawai‘i 
Renewable Hydrogen ProgramHawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-18 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—Energy
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §196-9: Energy Efficiency and 
Environmental Standards for State Facilities, Motor 
Vehicles, and Transportation Fuel
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-5: Zero Emissions 
Clean Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-92: Renewable 
Portfolio Standards
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-96: Energy 
Efficiency Portfolio Standards
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §302A-1510(a): 
Sustainable Schools Initiative
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §304A-119: UH Net-Zero 
Energy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71: Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions LimitsDetails objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth. 
Policies to achieve these objectives include p
romoting renewable energy development and 
accelerating the development of new energy-related industries based on wind, solar, 
ocean a nd underground resources.
Ensures the short- and long-term provision of adequate, reasonably priced, dependable 
energy services to accommodate demand.
Includes policies to achieve the objectives 
of an energy system that is secure, dependable, 
affordable, and contributes to the reduction of GHG emissions from energy supply. 
Policies include supporting the development of renewable energy sources, adopting 
energy-efficient practices, and promoting alternative fuels.   
Requires state agencies incorporate and implement energy-efficiency measures, 
and e nergy e
fficient equipment in state facilities. 
Sets a statewide target to sequester more atmo sphe ric car bon and GHGs than emitted within 
the state as quickly as practicable, but no later th an 2045 .
Achieve a 100% renewable portfolio standard (RPS) b y 2045 and a 40% RPS by 2030.
Requires the Public Utilities Commission to establish energ y-efficient portfolio standards, 
including a 30% reduction in energy use by 2030 through energy efficiency.
Achieve net-zero energy use in all public scho ol facilities by 2035.
Achieve net-zero energy use at all University of Hawai‘i campuses by 2035.
Ensure the short-and-long-term provision of adequate, r easonably priced, dependable 
energy  services to accommodate demand.
Limited statewide GHG emissions to be equal to or below 1990 levels by 
2020, excluding emissions from airplanes.
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i State Energy Office's Annual 
Report (2020) 
Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Plan (2016)
The Department of Hawaiian Home Land's 
Ho‘omaluā Energy Policy (2011)Identifies priority objectives and policies relating to clean energy, energy resilience, 
renewable energy deployment, energy efficiency, clean transportation, stakeholder 
and community education, outreach, and engagement, and data analytics. 
Supports Native Hawaiians and the broader community in working together to lead Hawai‘i's 
effort to achieve energy self-sufficiency and sustainability.Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic 
sectors, including energy. 
Sets a goal that Hawai‘i is less dependent on imported carbon-based energy with shared 
access to renewable energy benefits and is on track to meet the state's goal of 100% clean 
energy by 2045. 
Objectives include
 updating the electrical grid infrastructure,  improving awareness and 
understanding
 of energy resources,  and expanding  energy efficiency and 
sustainability practices.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVESThe Aloha+ Challenge includes a goal to achieve 70% clean energy, with 40% from 
renewable sources and 30% from efficiency, with a view towards 100% renewable energy 
by 2045. 
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a commitment to achieve 100% renewable 
electricity by 2045.
Details the program to manage the state's transition to a renewable hydrogen 
economy, including implementation plans.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the 
Economy—Potential Growth and Innovative Activities
Hawai‘i Water Energy Nexus Report 
(2017)Describes the relationship between water and energy use in Hawai‘i, and encourages the 
development and implementation of water conservation programs protecting Hawai‘i’s f resh 
water resources, while considering the implications of energy uses in the water and 
wastewater industries.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    51
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left:  Leeward Community College Net Zero Energy Campus on the island of O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: U niversity of Hawai‘i. 
Photo Right: University of Hawai‘i-Maui College Net Zero Energy Campus on the island of Maui. 
Photo
 Credit: University of Hawai‘i.In 2015, Hawai‘i became 
the first state in the 
country to make the 
commitment to achieve 
a 100% electricity 
renewable portfolio 
standard by 2045. 
Concurrently, the State of 
Hawai ‘i established a similar 
energy goal for the 
University of Hawai‘i System 
to achieve net-zero energy 
use by 2035, meaning the 
university system would 
produce as much renewable 
energy as it consumes across 
its 10 campuses (Hawai‘i 
Revised Statutes §304A-119).
Hawai‘i's own Leeward 
Community College 
became one of the first 
net-zero campuses in 
the United States.  In 
July 2020, the campus 
generated 97% of energy 
through on-site photovoltaic 
syste ms, including solar 
shade canopies, rooftop 
arrays, and distributed 
energy storage (UH News 
2020a).  By January 2021, 
the Uni versity of Hawai‘i 
Maui College also became 
one the first campuses in 
the nation to generate 100% 
of its energy from on-site 
solar photovoltaic systems 
coupled with battery storage 
(UH News 2021).The  State of Hawai‘i is committed to lead and t rans form  Hawai‘i's e nergy 
use. In addition to these energy commitm ents, the State also enacted 
energy efficiency portfolio standards, which re quire  that 4,300 gigawatt 
hours (GWh) of electricity use be reduced statewi de by 2030 (H awai‘i 
Revised Statutes §269-96). 
The Hawai‘i State Energy Office tracks and  reports o n electricity 
purchased by state agencies as part of the “L ead  By E xample” initiative. 
Between 2005 and 2019, Hawai‘i State agencies reduc ed th eir 
electricity use by  17.5%.  This was made  possible in part  through the 
government's performance contracting prog ram.  S ince the  performance 
contracting program was introduced in 1996, Stat e an d C ounty 
government agencies saved an estimated $1.1  bill ion in en ergy costs  
over the life of the contracts.  The State of  Hawai‘i's s uccess garnered 
national recognition by achieving the Race  to the Top A ward for 8 
consecutive years  between 2012 and 2019.  This nat ional accolade 
recogni zes the state with the highest per capita  inve stmen t in 
performance contracting projects, awarded by the  En ergy Se rvices 
Coalition. 
As of June 2020, all of Hawai‘i's counties have succe ssfully adopted the 
2015 International Energy Conservation Co de (IE CC) with Hawai‘i 
amendments (as amended) (HSEO 2020).  The estimat ed net energy 
saving s from this statewide adoption is 1,083,5 90 MWh  in 2029 (year 10); 
1,991,059 MWh in 2032; and 4,702,738 MWh in 2038 ( year 20). These 
estimated energy savings are greater for co mmer cial buildings, which are 
expected to save about 33%.  The energy savings  estimates will a lso rise 
as a result of additional amendments adopted  by the count ies (DBEDT 
2016).  
The  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC) under scores 
that  a “rapid and far-reaching” sustainable t ransition in land, en ergy, 
bui ldings, transport, and cities is needed to mee t global carbo n reduction 
goals to lim it global warming to 1.5°C.  Buildings account fo r almos t 40% 
of global energy-related CO2 and will play a m ajor role in a sustainable 
transformat ion (IPCC 2018).  To meet global decarbonizat ion 
goals within the buildings sector, the Internatio nal  En ergy Agency 
recommends that almost all existing buildings undergo  a single in-depth 
retrofit by 2050 and new construction meet  str ingen t efficiency 
standards.  Building energy codes covering new an d existing buildings are 
the fundamental tool to drive this change (IEA 2021).  
It is imp ortant to recognize the role of the buil t environme nt, especially 
since buildings are a key component in the fabric of cities and the 
building and construction sector provides o pportuni ties to contribute to 
achieving the UN SDGs.  Green buildings play an im portant role in the 
sustainable development of cities, communities,  and  neighb orh oods by 
reducing energy and waste consumption; conserving  water; prioritizing 
the use of safer materials; and lowering the expos ure to toxins.  Applying 
these sustainable development principles lo cally in  the design, 
construction, retrofitting, and operation i n H awai‘i's buildings will help 
transform local energy use, reduce GHG emissions,  adapt  to climate 
change, and create sustainable and thrivi ng co mmun ities.
 52Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    53DECENT WORK AND
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Sustainable Development Goal 8 
Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth,
Full and productive employment, Decent work for all
Targets related to the UN Decent Work and Economic Growth goal 
include:
•Sustaining economic growth and economic pr
oductivity through
innovation, diversification, and increased access to financial
institutions, particularly in developing countries
•Achieving “full and productiv
e” employment in safe and secure
working environments across all genders, abilities, and ages
•Eradicating forced labor in all forms, including human trafficking andchild labor
Overview
Key economic sectors for Hawai‘i include tourism, defense, creative economy, and agriculture. 
Based on gross domestic product (GDP), the top five industries in Hawai‘i (as of 2019) were real 
estate, rental, and l
easing; government; accomm odation and food services; health care and social 
assistance; and retail trade (DBEDT 2020c).
Prior to the C
OVID-19 global pandemic, Hawai‘i had the lowest unemployment rate in the n ation 
(BLS 2018).  The pandemic has exacerbated existing economic stressors, causing a d ramatic 
reduction in tourism and prompting unprecedented business closures and increased 
unemployment.  Unemployment in the state peaked in April 2020 at nearly 24%, largely due to 
stress in the hospitality and food/service industries (Associated Press 2020).  The state's l
abor 
underutilization rate—which includes the unemployed, involuntary part-time workers (i.e., 
workers employed part-time for economic reasons), and those marginal
ly attached to the labor 
force—was 19.4% in 2020 (BLS 2021).  This was dramatically higher than the state's previous 
unemployment rates: from 1990 to 2018, unemployment was highest in 2011 at 7.0% and lowest 
in 2017 at 2.4% (DBEDT 2020a).  
Some populations face unique challenges.  For example, older workers and people with health 
issues or disabilities may have difficulties finding a job or teleworking, and b
ecause these groups 
are more vulnerable to COVID-19 they may have to weigh protecting their health or preserving 
their job.  Many women have also had to take on additional unpaid labor, such as childcare. 
A sustainable Hawai‘i cannot occur without a sustainable economy.  There is a unique 
opportunity to plan for and design a post-COVID sustainable economic recovery, by d iversifying 
and strengthening Hawai‘i's economic clusters and encouraging a regenerative, and 
environmentally and culturally sustainable tourism
 industry.  The tourism industry has 
tremendous potential to make progress by reducing its consumption of land, water, energy, and 
other natural resources, as well
 as taking a leadership role in protecting our natural areas.  
 54Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 8
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-6 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-7 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy 
—AgricultureDetails provisions for achieving full employment and economic growth including 
promoting Hawai‘i as an attractive market for investment, penetrating new markets for 
Hawai‘i's p
roducts and services, foster cooperation between government and private 
sectors i
n developing employment and economic growth, and increasing 
communication w
ith the educational community to ensure a curriculum that is relevant 
to Hawai‘i's job market.
Details economic objectives relating to the agriculture section including diversifying 
agriculture and managing natural resources.
Directs economic planning toward the achievement of a visitor industry that supports 
steady growth for the state.
Promotes the development of federally supported activities in Hawai‘i. 
Encourages federal expenditures in Hawai‘i that generate long term employment. 
Details objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth.
Establishes priority guidelines for economic growth, business expansion, and 
economic d
iversification.
Promotes a diversified and dynamic economy.
Encourages balancing economic, social, community, and environmental 
priorities.
Hawai‘i Defense Economy Action Plan 
(2021)
Hawai‘i Tourism Authority Strategic Plan: 
2020-2025 (2020)
University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
(2018)
Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy (2016)Identifies strategies for expanding and diversifying the tourism market.
Establishes goals for each of the four pillars covered in the plan: natural resources, 
Hawaiian culture, community, and brand marketing. 
Establishes objectives, milestones, and measures to track the achievement of 
these goals.
Identifies opportunities to align education with job creation and economic diversification 
by leading the development of a $1 billion innovation, research, education and training 
enterprise that addresses the challenges and opportunities faced by Hawai‘i and the 
world.
Provides a blueprint for future economic developme nt across the state and all economic 
sectors including diversification of the tourism industry.
The National Security and Hospitality and Tourism cluster includes redefining Hawai‘i as 
a destination of choice, identifying new tourism markets, supporting training programs for 
local residents to expand the workforce pipeline.Recognizes the role of Hawai‘i's unique relation ship with the military and the role this 
partnership can play in economic development.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes targets for sustainable tourism (continue to develop 
policies and initiatives to promote sustainable business practices that invest in Hawai‘i's 
natural and cultural resources and support local job creation and thriving communities) 
and innovation and entrepreneurship (foster an ecosystem of innovation, research, 
education, and entrepreneurship that creates living-wage jobs and a diversified 
economy).
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-8 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Visitor Industry
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-9 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the E conomy
—Federal Expenditures
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-103 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Economic Priority Guidelines
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-108 of Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Sustainability Priority Guidelines
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    55
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Potential Growth and Innovative ActivitiesSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
10,42 4,995 tourists 
visited Hawai‘i in 2019 
(HTA 2020b).  Tourism is 
a major contributing 
sector of Hawai‘i's 
economy, but there is no 
doubt that increased 
visit or numbers can also 
intensify strain on local 
commu nities and 
ecosystems.  Sustainable 
tourism is often seen as a 
solution to address these 
effects.Hā ‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i turned to its c ommunity in 
a collaborative process to lessen the impacts of t ourism and 
reform the park's management plan.  Whil e the park is a wahi 
pana, wahi kapu, and an area of ecologica l signi ficance, it also 
struggled with overcrowding and vehicle cong estion as  one of 
Hawai‘i's busiest state parks (DLNR 2018).  T his cro wdi ng 
effectively pushed local residents out of a sto ried place in their 
own com mu nity.  In response, the Hā‘ena State Park Mas ter Plan 
engagement coordinated with the communit y and developed a 
plan to balance recreational use with natur al an d cul tural  resource 
protection and restoration.  Community stakeh olders an d cultural 
practitioners continue to have an important r ole in plan 
implementation and park management, incl udin g thro ugh a 
commu nity advisory committee and a future cu ltur al ad visory 
group.  Other outcomes included a daily visit or limit of 900 (not 
counting cultural practitioners or specia l user groups ), a parking 
reservation system for out-of-state visi tors, a new boardwalk 
through the park's lo‘i, a permeable par king l ot with integrated 
shuttle stop, and interpretive signage and staff ing. W hile it took an 
unprecedented flood in 2018 and subsequent  State eme rgency 
funding to fast-track these actions, a plan t hat normally wo uld 
have t aken years to implement was instead largel y im plemented 
within 12 months, and the Hā‘ena State Park Maste r Plan  became 
an example to mitigate tourism impacts on local comm unitie s and 
provide a higher quality experience with the natur al enviro nment.
Photo Left: Ke‘e Beach in Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State Parks.
Photo Right: Lo‘i Kalo in Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State Parks. 
 56Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    57Sustainable Development Goal 9 INDUSTRY, 
INNOVATION, AND 
INFRAS
TRUCTURE
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialization, and foster innovation
This SDG's targets include: 
•Improving the sust
ainability and equity of all existing and future
infrastructure
•Promoting sust
ainable industrialization that encourages innovation
•Increasing access to technology and supporting technologydevelopment
Overview
Hawai‘i's infrastructure (including airports, bridges, coastal areas, dams, energy systems, 
ports, roads, schools, solid waste, stormwater, wastewater, and drinking water) is aging.  
A lack of sufficient funding for infrastructure, along with population, economic, and 
development growth, has made it challenging to effectively maintain and improve 
infrastructure (ASCE, 2019).  Water main breaks, flood water damage, degradation of coastal 
highways, loss of property from coastal erosion, and beach and park closures from brown 
water advisories can all occur or happen more frequently due to deteriorating infrastructure 
(ASCE, 2019).  Climate-influenced changes (e.g., sea level rise and increased coastal erosion, 
more frequent and intense hurricanes, higher king tides, and extreme weather events causing 
heavy rainfall, storm surge, and/or wind) are further stressing these assets (ASCE, 2019). 
Hawai‘i has an opportunity to incorporate green in frastructure as an adaptation strategy. 
This includes design concepts such as installation of more vegetation and permeable surfaces, 
which can decrease urban temperatures, reduce carbon emissions, improve air quality, 
increase urban tree canopy, and capture water to replenish the water table. 
Residents who live near green infrastructure also experience positive health impacts, such as 
a lower likelihood of heart and respiratory issues,  improvements to mental health, and better 
overall quality of life.
 58Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 9
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-17 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—TransportationIncludes provisions to attain high-speed wireless communication, facilitate innovative 
businesses, encourage job creation located in Hawai‘i, ensure that new economic growth 
meets the needs of Hawai‘i's people, and provide 
opportunities for Hawai‘i residents to 
be upwardly mobile in the information industry.
Includes provisions on multimodal and mass transportation systems, including 
planning transportation systems to promote the use of alternative fuels. 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation 
Action Plan (2021)
Hawai‘i Broadband Strategic Plan (2020) 
Statewide Coastal Highway Program 
Report (2019)
State of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation 
Plan (2018)
SustainableHNL Sustainable Management 
Plan (2016)Provides information and a framework for the creation of policies and programs to 
address the challenges faced in meeting the State's broadband goals.
Provides a scientifically rigorous methodology to assess and rank the susceptibility of 
the State of Hawai‘i'
s coastal roads to erosion and structural degradation due to ocean 
hazards s uch as waves, currents, tides, and sea level rise.
Identifies action plans to achieve the six broad hazard mitigation goals. The first goal in 
the hazard mitigation plan includes “reduc[ing] the long-term vulnerability of Hawai‘i's 
people… including State-owned or operated buildings, infrastructure and critical 
facilities.”
Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic 
sectors.
Emphasizes the importance of continued innovation and infrastructure improvement 
across the economy, including providing technological innovation and entrepreneurship 
in healthcare, and improving the infrastructure of the 
tourism sector to balance the needs 
of visitors and residents.Summarizes research on how climate change will impact Hawai‘i roadways.
Outlines strategies to achieve greater network resilience in the face of long-term 
environmental risks.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The University of Hawai‘i, in partnership with the private sector and state 
government, launched Hawai‘i's Innovation Initiative to build a thriving 
innovation, research, education and training enterprise in Hawai‘i.  
Hawai‘i  Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Plan (2016) 
Provides the framework for a management plan rooted in the best practices of 
sustainability that can serve as a model in 
design and process for State-run airports.
Conducts a comprehensive analysis of how and where sustainability management 
is implemented into long-term planning at HNL.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    59
Deta ils objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Potential Growth and Innovative Activities
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10.5 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Information IndustrySUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Pho to Left: Volunteers deliver FDA-approved hand sanitizer that was locally produced and manufactured by 
Kō Hana Hawaiian Agricole Rum Distillery to fill the supply gap and provide sanitizer to Hawai‘i hospitals, 
first responders, correctional facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i.  
Photo Right: Kō Hana sugar cane field in Kunia on the island of O‘ahu.  Photo Credit: Kō Hana Distillers. 
Over $4.4 billion worth of 
imports passed through 
Hawai‘i customs in 2019 
(DBEDT 2020b).  Hawai‘i 
depends largely on goods 
shipped in from out-of-state: 
for example, 85-90% of our 
food supply is sourced 
from outside of Hawai‘i 
(Office of Planning 2012). 
However, this reliance 
leaves Hawai‘i vulnerable 
as disa sters and 
emerge ncies can disrupt 
supply chains. The COVID-19 global pandemic rapidly highlighted Hawai‘i's 
vulnerability.  In March 2020, the onset of intense demand for hand 
sanitizer created an enormous gap between the supply and demand 
of sanitizer.  In response, Kō Hana Distillers, an O‘ahu distillery 
bett
er known for its premium rum, with the assistance of the state 
of Hawai‘i, approached the federal Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) to for approval to produce high-proof alcohol as a base for 
sanitizer from distilling Hawai‘i-grown sugarcane.  
Other local 
business
es throughout Hawai‘i joined Kō Hana by supplying bottles, 
labels, boxes, ingredients, oversight, and labor—completing the 
manufacturing process and, together, creating the first locally made 
FD A-registered hand sanitizer in Hawai‘i.  Within a few weeks, the 
sanitizer was ready for distribution and the State of Hawai‘i, along 
with several nonprofits, helped coordinate the logistics to disperse 
bottles of sanitizer into the community as quickly as practical.  
First responders, hospitals, schools, kūpuna, correctional facilities, 
and homeless all received donations.  By December 2020, Kō Hana 
had locally produced over 50,000 gallons of hand sanitizer for the 
people of Hawai‘i.  The distillery also planted nearly 300 new acres 
of sugarcane, ensuring sanitizer remains a permanent addition to 
Hawai‘i's locally manufactured products. 
 60Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    61REDUCE INEQUALITIES
Sustainable Development Goal 10 
Reduce inequality within and among countries
This UN goal seeks to reduce intercountry and intracountry inequalities 
and includes targets that address: 
•Promoting appropriate legisla
tion and policies to achieve greater
equality
•Supporting the political, social, and economic inclusion of all peoples
regardless of age, gender, ability, race, ethnicity, or economic status
Overview
Inequality in Hawai‘i manifests in a number of ways, including Native Hawaiians facing greater 
hardships and being further from attaining the outcomes of the SDGs.  As mentioned under SDG 3, 
15% of Native Hawaiians do not have health insurance (compared with 4% of the population as a 
whole).  Overall, health outcomes are worse than average for Native Hawaiians, other Pacific 
Islanders, the mentally ill, and the poor.
Hawai‘i also has a long history and continuing history of ensuring equal rights for the lesbian, gay, 
bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community and passed marriage equality legislation 
in 2013.  Hawai‘i was also one of the first states to ban conversion therapy for minors, ban gay/
trans-panic as an affirmative defense, and expanded gender markers on State IDs and driver's 
licenses to include “X”  for a non-binary option.  However, LGBTQ+ residents are more likely to 
face health inequities (such as higher likelihood of chronic diseases and poor mental health) due 
to discrimination in the healthcare system  and higher rates of domestic abuse (DOH 2017).
Achievements in other SDGs may positively impact SDG 10, and reducing inequalities will  support 
the achievement of other SDGs. 
 62Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 10
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Marriage Equality Act of 2013
Act 148, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019: Relating to 
Gender IdentificationLegalized same-sex marriage in the state.
Expa nded gender options applicable to driver's licenses and state identification cards 
to include a non-binary option of “X.”
Sanctions the submissions of complaints in regards to discrimination or discriminatory 
practices.
Proh ibits discrimination in employment.
Clearly defines terms relating to potential discrimination.
Outlaws disciminatory actions that deny, or  attempt to deny, a person full and 
equal enjoyment of publicly available goods, resources, and accomodations.
Identifies and outlaws discriminatory practices related to real estate transactions.
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Reports 
(2020)Annual reports on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong State civil rights laws by 
rebuilding c apacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for State civil rights law 
enforcement.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil Rights 
Commission
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 378: Employment 
Practices
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 489: Discrimination in 
Public Accommodations 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 515: Discrimination in 
Real Property Transactions
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    63
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 
(b) (16): Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives a nd
Policies for the Economy—In General
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-24: Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-
cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal 
Well-BeingSets goal to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of Hawai‘i's 
population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objective to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of 
every individual and assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and 
other public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in 
society. SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Waimea River, Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Departmen t of Land and Natural Resources. 
Photo Right: Waimea River, Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. 
All water in Hawai‘i is h eld as 
a public trust 
(Hawai‘i Const. art. XI).  A key 
feature of Hawai‘i law, this is an 
inheritance from Kānaka Maoli 
culture and principles where 
private ownership of water was 
unthinkable and instead 
managed for the benefit of all.  
However,  
the state's plantation 
legacy and oversight of this 
public trust ethic means that 
the reality of water use is far 
more contentious and often 
culminates in notoriously 
prol
onged lawsuits (Sproat 
2009).
The 2017 Waimea W atershed 
Agreement s tands out for 
being H awai‘i's first major 
water dispute resolved 
without litigation, an 
accomplishment made e ven 
more significant by 
its disparate signatories.  
Pō‘ai 
Wai Ola (a “taroroots” 
organization representing 
community members and 
cultural
 practitioners), 
the State Agribusiness 
Development Corporation 
(ADC), the Kaua‘i Island U tility 
Cooperative (KIUC), t he Kekaha 
Agriculture A ssociation (KAA), 
and the D epartment of 
Hawaiian H ome Lands (DHHL) 
all
 signed the agreement after a 
year of formal mediation 
(Henkin 2017). At the center of the case was Waimea River: from its headwaters in 
Alaka‘i Swamp, through the “Grand C
anyon of the Pacific,” 
and into the Pacific Ocean, the river is a major water source that once 
supported an expansive lo‘i system, and yet by 2013 had become so 
low and silt-fil
led due to upstream diversions that a 15-foot swimming 
hole had disappeared (Earthjustice 2013).  Every party had its own 
design for beneficial use of the water, but at the suggestion of 
mediation by the State Commission on Water Resources, and with 
diligent effort by a communally respected figure (who eventually 
became the case's mediator), everyone found they agreed with the 
following cornerstone: above all, Waimea River should be allowed to 
flow ma uka to ma kai, and total diversion of the water must never 
happen again.  With common ground established, conversation coul
d 
begin, and this founding principle evolved into the first of the 
agreement's “Statement of Guiding Principles” (Earthjustice 2013).
The outcome was a compromise that managed to cede important wins 
to all stakeholders.  Millions of gallons of water would be restored to 
Waimea River, allowing for minimum instream flows through its 
entirety to support stream ecosystems and traditional cul
tural 
practices (Henkin 2017).  Hawaiian homesteads on DHHL land in 
Waimea, which had remained undeveloped due in part 
to lack of water, would have water specifically reserved for them for 
the first time since 1921 (DHHL 2017).  KIUC would have the 
opportunity to develop a pumped-storage hydro “battery” using water 
from Waimea River, which if advanced would diversify
 Kaua‘i's 
renewable energy portfolio and provide for infrastructure necessary to 
develop the Waimea homesteads (DHHL 2017).  Finally, ADC and KAA 
could 
continue utilizing existing ditch irrigation systems from the river 
for agriculture (Mediation Agreement 2017).  This remarkable feat of 
negotiation and cooperation is considered “historic,” and it shows that 
zero-sum outcomes aren’t inevitable: that by setting aside ultimatums, 
exhibiting empathy, 
and being willing to listen, even opposed parties 
can come to terms and a resolution found. 
 64Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    65SUSTAINABLE CITIES 
AND COMMUNITIES
Sust ainable De
velopment Goal 11
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, 
and sustainable
The core tenets of an “inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable” city or 
community as defi ned by this UN goal are as follows: 
• Affordable housing
• Access to public spaces
• Sustainable transportation systems, including public transport
• Safe cultural and natural heritage
•Protected against losses related to natural disasters
• Reduced adverse per capita environmental impact of cities (air
quality, waste management)
Overview
Residents of Hawai‘i celebrate access to public spaces, beaches, and the ocean, and prioritizing the 
vitality of cultural  and natural  heritage.  There is significant work to be done, however, to increase 
mobility and accessibility, provide increased access to affordable housing, and increase the economic 
wellbeing of households.  
In Hawai‘i, Maui and Kaua‘i islands, smart growth and transit-oriented development (TOD) principles 
are being planned to encourage quality growth and vibrant mixed-use neighborhoods in urban or 
rural centers.  In O‘ahu's urban areas, the State of Hawai‘i in partnership with the City and County of 
Honolulu is working on TOD around its rail  corridor.  This effort aims to provide more green and 
public g
athering spaces, safer streets, and less pollution and noise, all while being sensitive to the 
needs of the neighboring community.  Honolulu also recently published a guide outlining design 
principles that can help develop policy and regulations for urban areas that may be vulnerable to 
climate change hazards.  All  four counties have made commitments to use 100% renewable fuel 
sources for public ground transportation by 2045. 
Sustainable development of buildings and the use of green infrastructure help to mitigate the 
environmental impact of cities.  The State of Hawai‘i has requirements for sustainable development 
of State buildings, including LEED certification and water recycling and reclamation.  Further, the use 
of green infrastructure has many co-benefits for communities, including enhancing livability, 
improving p
hysical and mental health, sequestering CO2 from the atmosphere, improving air quality, 
sl
owing and filtering stormwater runoff, reducing flooding and soil  erosion, and reducing the urban 
heat island effect.  Honolulu lost nearly 5% of total  urban tree canopy over four years.  The City and 
County of Honolulu in collaboration with Kaulunani Urban Forestry program are working to reverse 
this trend and have produced a tree canopy assessment to use as a baseline and have pledged to 
increase the urban tree canopy to 35% by 2035.
Hawai‘i has some of the best air qual
ity in the nation.  Some air pollution issues may still occur due to 
the presence of automobiles, and the Department of Health continues to regulate and monitor air 
pollution sources.  As seen during the 2014-2015, 2016, and 2018-2019 lava eruptions from Kı̄lauea 
Volcano on Hawai‘i Island can also occasionally experience volcanic smog, or vog, a mixture of 
atmospheric aerosols and volcanic gases that can have harmful  health effects.  Whil e the State cannot 
control the formation of vog, it can reduce health risks by closing highly exposed trails when 
necessary and educating the public about proper protective actions. 
 66Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 11
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land, Air, and Water Quality
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-17 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility S
ystems—Transportation Includes policy to improve air quality to enhance the health and well-being of Hawai‘i's 
people.
Identifies objectives and policies for transportation facility systems, including the 
enhancement of the public transit system to accommodate growth and the integration of 
an efficient multi-modal transportation system.
Defines state policy objectives for advancing opportunities for affordable housing and the 
orderly d
evelopment of residential areas sensitive to community needs and other land 
uses.
Prioritizes the need and access for affordable housin g as a priority guideline for 
the Hawai‘i State Planning Act to address as an issue of statewide concern.
Established a goal of developing 22,500 affordable rental units statewide to be ready 
for occupancy by December 31, 2026, and a Special Action Team on Affordable 
Rental Housing to recommend actions to achieve the goal.Directs agencies to design buildings and facilities to meet high-level LEED standards, 
and to purchase fuel-efficient and alternative fueled vehicles whenever possible.
State of Hawai‘i Hazard Mitigation Plan 
(2018)
State of Hawai‘i Strategic Plan for 
Transit-Oriented Development (2018)
State of Hawai‘i Affordable Rental 
Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan 
(2018)Guides the implementation of transit-oriented d evelopment projects including the 
development of affordable housing.
Based on seven principles of transit-oriented development, including prioritizing p rojects 
in areas served by public transit, creating effective partnerships, maximizing t he co-
location of state facilities, developing affordable housing, engaging in equitable 
development, using sustainable building practices, and investing in critical infrastructure.
Developed a baseline of affordable rental units currently in the planning stages or under 
development, implementing actions, and measures of effectiveness to guide 
achievement o f the affordable rental housing goals.
Provides next step recommendations on ways to support affordable rental housing in the 
state.
Guides the implementation of the Hawai‘i State Plan  housing goals and objectives.
Covers four priority areas, which include expanding and preserving rental housing 
opportunities, increase homeownership, addressing barriers to residential development, 
and maintaining a housing information system.
Includes clearly defined problem statements followed by objectives, policies, 
implementing actions and accessory details such as lead organization, budget 
estimates, s tart date and measures of effectiveness.Outlin es a long-term strategy for the state to reduce risk and losses from future natural 
hazard events.
Serves as a technical reference for updates to local county hazard mitigation plans 
that integrates best available data and climate science.
Provides a robust risk assessment that expands upon the number and type of assets 
assessed in the 2013 Hazard Mitigation Plan.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes a Smart Sustainable Communities target to increase 
livability and resilience in the built environment through planning and implementation 
at the state and county levels.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-19 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural A
dvancement—Housing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-106 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines for the 
Provision of Affordable Housing
Act 127, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016: Relating to 
HousingHawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-9: Energy Efficiency and 
Environmental Standards for State Facilities, Motor 
Vehicles, and Transportation Fuel
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    67
Housing Functional Plan (2017)SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
In 2017, ground 
transportation alone accounted for about 20% of Hawai‘i's greenhouse gas emissions (DOH 2021a). Meeting the State's Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target will require significant greenhouse gas emission reduction in this area, which in turn will require a multi-pronged approach of increasing multimodal active transportation, zero emission vehicle use, and increased use of alternative fuels. Maui-based Pacific Biodiesel is currently the only 
commercial biofuel producer in Hawai‘i and the nation's 
longest operating biodiesel producer, with locations on 3 
islands.  Pacific Biodiesel produces nearly 5.5 million gallons of 
biodiesel annually fr
om waste oil, largely sourced from restaurants 
across the islands (Pacific Biodiesel 2019a).  This circular economic 
model to sustainably manage and recycle food waste converts fats, 
oils and grease (FOG) into fuels.  Through a community-based 
r
ecycling program, “Restaurants 4 Renewables” in Hawai‘i 
County, Maui County, and the City and County of Honolulu, the 
company collects and converts used cooking oil into renewable 
energy from over 900 local restaurants, hotels, and ot her food 
service operations.  Converting used cooking oil and grease trap 
waste into biodiesel diverts waste from landfills and p rovides a 
locally-produced fuel that generates approximately 74% fewer 
lifetime greenhouse gas emissions than traditional petroleum diesel 
(U.
S. DOE n.d.).  
In order to support an end-to-end, 100% local production process, 
Pacific 
Biodiesel began a 115-acre project in 2017 to grow sunflowers 
to increase its local fuel source supply—and made history by being 
the largest biofuel crop project in the 
state of Hawai‘i and the only 
biofuel farming operation in the state running on 100% renewable 
fuel (Penniman 2018).  In 2019, the Hamakua Energy power 
generation facility, which provides up to 22% of Hawai‘i Island's 
generating capacity, diversified its fuel sourcing by using biodiesel 
fuel to reduce the facility's dependence on fossil fuels and advance 
H
awai‘i Island's energy independence and energy security (PBN 
2019).
Photo Left: With a production capacity of 5.5 mil lion gal lons annually, Pacific Biodiesel's refinery  on Hawai‘i 
Island utilizes state-of-the art distillati on technology to produce the nation’s highest quality bio diesel. 
All t he fuel produced at this facility is sold wit hin the  stat e of Hawai‘i.  Photo Credit: Pacific Biodiesel .
Photo Right: Pacific Biodiesel’s business m odel focuses on  recycling with a zero-waste philosophy that 
incorporates development of value-added co- products.  In 2017 the company began farming sunflowers and 
other biofuel crops on the island of Maui–supportin g local energy diversification and resilience, and carbon 
sequestration.  Photo Credit: Pacific Biod iesel.
 68Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    69RESP ONSIBLE 
CONSUMPTION  
AND PROD UCTION
Sust
ainable Development Goal 12
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
This UN SDG seeks to improve sustainable consumption and production by:
•Promoting the adoption o
f sustainable consumption practices and
sustainable public procurement practices
•Mitigating emissions from solid w
aste by reducing waste generation and
diverting waste
•Reducing food waste
Overview
Hawai‘i is relatively sustainable when it comes to food waste, discarding 356 pounds of food per year 
per person compared to 429 pounds on the continental United States.  For the most part, food waste in 
Hawai‘i either goes through incineration or into the landfill.  There are opportunities to increase other 
methods of food recovery, such as through composting or source reduction.  These methods could also 
result in pollution or greenhouse gas reductions by reducing the amount of particles and emissions 
produced by landfills and combustion.
Each of the counties throughout the State of Hawai‘i have laws and initiatives to reduce plastics and are 
proceeding somewhat differently (DOH 2020).
There is an opportunity in the wake of the COVID-19 global pandemic to reevaluate waste m anagement 
practices, including encouraging the tourism industry to adopt sustainabl
e practices, as c onsumer 
behaviors adapt to the “new normal” that has formed from statewide stay-at-home orders.  In 2020, 
there were 47 certified sustainable eco-tourism businesses.  Further sustainability in the t ourism 
sector could position Hawai‘i as a global leader in that sector. 
 70Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 12
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-14 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §103D-1005: Encouraging the 
use of Recycled Products through the Hawai‘i Public 
Procurement CodeIncludes provisions to ensure the success of Hawai‘i's waste systems and 
encourages design to support the prudent use of resources.
Encourages purchasing preference for products containing recycled materials.
Prioritizes solid waste management practices an d processing methods in the order 
of source reduction, recycling and bioconversion, and landfilling and incineration.
Required waste diversion rates of 25% by 1995 and 50% by 2000, as well as a 
reduction of 25% of office paper generation by 1995 from a 1990 baseline.
Requires purchasing preference for recycled material products that are designed 
for durability.
Requires state and county agencies to establish office paper and other 
m
aterials recovery programs.
Set a fee for advance disposal for every glass container importer.
Set a fee of 5 cents per deposit on beverage containers manufactured within 
or imported to the state.
State of Hawai‘i Office of Solid Waste 
Management Annual Report (2021)
State of Hawai‘i Plastic Source Reduction 
Working Group Report (2020)Discusses solid waste management practices and methods for source reduction, 
recycling and bioconversion, and landfilling or incineration. 
Provides statewide recommendations and methods to improve the processes to 
reuse, reduce, recycle, and recover plastic waste.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge has six goals for solid waste reduction: 1) increased total solid 
waste d
iversion, 2) decreased total solid waste generation, 3) increased recycling, 4) 
more source reduction, 5) increased reuse, and 6) increased waste to energy.  The 
initiative's g
oal is a 70% reduction in waste by 2030. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-2: Solid Waste 
Management Priorities
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-41: Goals for 
Procurement of Recycled Products
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-45: Paper Recovery
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-82: Advance 
Disposal Fee on Imported  Glass Containers 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-102: Deposit 
Beverage Container Fee
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    71
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-3: Solid Waste 
Management Goals  SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Decaying organic waste 
emits methane, a greenhouse 
gas w ith at least twenty-
eight times more global 
warming p otential than 
carbon dioxide ( EPA  2020).  
There are al
so v aluable 
nutrients in organic w aste 
that are lost when 
it is sent to landfills and 
incinerators.  Composting 
(turning organic material 
into rich soil through 
decomposer organisms) 
sequesters CO2 and these 
valuable nutrients from 
organic waste in the soil.  
This s ustainable practice 
reduces g reenhouse gas 
emissions w hile improving 
soil health.The Windward Zero Waste School Hui is a nonprofit on O‘ahu 
working to reduce waste levels, recover these nutrients, and 
generate revenue for five Kailua-Kalāheo Complex schools 
through on
-site composting.  Siting compost production on 
school grounds eliminates waste transportation emissions and 
allows students to learn about soil science, ecology, environmental 
stewardship, and green careers.  Windward Zero Waste School Hui 
also farms earthworms on the campuses for compost needs and 
sales, and compost and worms are sold to community members 
and
 local farmers.  In total, Windward Zero Waste School Hui 
composted 47,164 pounds of waste across the five schools in 2020 
(note: this number is low due to COVID-19 global pandemic school 
cl
osures; since this organization previously composted 108,703 
pounds
 of waste in 2019), and the combined compost soil and 
worm sales generated $46,504—100% of which went directly to 
the school
s.  This is significant since over 37% of students in the 
Kailua-Kalāheo Complex were deemed economically disadvantaged 
in the 2017-2018 school year, and research has shown that 
increasing spending per student correlates with higher wages and 
lower poverty rates
 in adulthood (DOE 2019, Jackson et al. 2016). 
In addition to
 their waste reduction benefits, Windward Zero 
Waste School Hui's c ompost programs provide additional revenue 
for greater student
 investment, a welcomed resource as schools 
face b udget challenges and the amount of economically 
disadvantaged s tudents increases from the impacts of the 
COVID-19 global pandemic.
Photo Left and Right: On-site composting at Enc hanted Lake Elementary School, in Kailua, O‘ahu, one 
of the public schools participating in the Windward Zero Wast S
chool Hui, which teaches children 
zero waste and resource recovery practices.
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning.
 72Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    73CLIMATE ACTION
Sustainable Development Goal 13
T
ake urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
This goal includes targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase 
resilience, and adapt to the impacts of climate change
Overview
Efforts to understand, mitigate, and adapt to the impacts of climate change are critical due to 
Hawai‘i’s isolated geography, unique cultural  heritage, and heavy reliance on the tourism industry. 
Hawai‘i anticipates an estimated 3.2 feet of sea level rise by 2100.  Climate change impacts, such as 
sea level rise and more frequent and intense extreme weather events (hurricanes, flood, droughts), 
pose an increasing threat to infrastructure and communities.  Sea level rise is especially hazardous as 
it will  affect many critical transportation systems, such as regional highways, airports, and harbors. 
Hawai‘i h
as seen an increase in extreme rainfall events from 1940 to present in addition to an 
increase in more consecutive dry days (USGCRP 2018).  
The Fourth National Climate Assessment projects the impacts of rising sea levels and other climate 
change impacts will result in the loss of 550 cultural  sites in Hawai‘i, more than 6,500 structures 
becoming unusable, and roughly 20,000 displaced residents.  According to the State of Hawai‘i’s Sea 
Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation report, statewide losse
s due to climate change are projected 
to total  more than $19 billion (USGCRP 2018).
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71 enacted a statewide target to reduce GHG emissions to 1990 
levels by 2020.  Total GHG emissions in Hawai‘i in 2017 were 17.87 million metric tons of carbon 
dioxide e
quivalent (MMT CO 2e), roughly 8% lower than 1990 levels.  Statewide projections indicated 
Hawai‘i was on track to meet the GHG emissions target by 2020. 
Figure 2: Hawai‘i GHG Emissions by Sector for 1990, 2007, 2010, and 2015-2017. Source: Hawai’i S tate DOH 
(2021)
Figure 2 shows emission trends by sector for each year that Hawai‘i has conducted a GHG inventory.  
The energy sector is the largest source of emissions in Hawai‘i, accounting for 86% of total emissions. 
Emissions from transportation accounted for the largest share of energy sector emissions in 2017, 
followed by stationary energy combustion emissions largely driven by emissions from electric power 
plants, petroleum refineries, and industry.  Agriculture, forestry, and other land use (AFOLU), waste, 
and industrial processes and product use (IPPU) sectors accounted for 6, 4, and 4% of total 
emissions, r espectively in 2017 (DOH 2021a).  
AFOLU is the only sector that overall, sequesters carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.  Healthy native 
forests and sustainable agricul
tural practices are essential to stabilizing soil organic carbon which 
accounts for over half of the carbon dioxide stored in Hawai‘i's terrestrial ecosystems (Selmants et al. 
2017).  
The State of Hawai‘i is committed to reducing GHG emissions, adapting to climate change, and 
incorporating climate change considerations into decision-making.  In April 2021, the State of Hawai‘i 
adopted Senate Concurrent Resolution 44, and became the first state in the Unit
ed States to declare a 
climate emergency.  74Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 13
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised St atutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: 
Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability PlanIncludes provisions to reduce the threat to life and property from erosion, flooding, 
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other natural or man-induced 
hazards and disasters.
Specifies that the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan will serve as the State's climate and 
sustainability strategic action plan.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to update the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan every 10 years.
Promotes sector resilience by encouraging the  identification of climate change threats, the 
assessment of potential consequences, and the evaluation of adaptation.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Plannin g to provide coastal and ocean policy 
management, and sea level rise adaptation coordination.  
Carries out the lead agency responsibilities for the Hawai‘i Coastal Zone Management 
program, as specified in Chapter 205A.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to develop, monitor, and evaluate strategic 
climate adaptation plans and actionable policy recommendations for the State and 
counties a ddressing expected statewide climate change impacts and provide planning and 
policy
 guidance and assistance to state and county agencies regard ing climate change 
and
 sustainability.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to develop, organize, and promote policies 
and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and climate 
policies and goals.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Climate Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, which is 
administratively attached to the Department of Land and Natural Resources. Coordination 
of this advisory commission is headed jointly by two co-chairs: the Chairperson of the 
Board of Land and Natural Resources and the Director of the State of Hawai‘i's Office of 
Planning, or their designees.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Greenhouse Gas Sequestration Task Force, which is 
administratively attached to the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning, charged with a number 
of statutory objectives, which among other responsibilities, include: identifying the potential 
to improve soil health, and increasing greenhouse gas sequestration in the agricultural, 
aquacultural, urban, and natural environments.
Sets a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and GHGs than emitted 
within the state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045.
Limited statewide GHG emissions to be equal to or below 1990 levels by 2020, excluding 
emissions from airplanes.
Established source category-specific GHG limits.
Requires conducting statewide GHG inventories, verification, and reporting to track 
progress.
Directed the State of Hawai‘i to expand strategies and mechanisms to reduce statewide 
greenhouse gas emissions through reduction of energy use, adoption of renewable energy,  
and control of air pollution among all agencies, departments, industries, and sectors,  
including transportation.
Aligns the State of Hawai‘i's commitment to combat climate change with the principles  and 
goals set forth by the United Nations‘ Paris Agreement and Hawai‘i's share of 
the obligations within the expectations apportioned to the United States in the Paris 
Agreement.
Resolves that the state mobilize climate mitigation  and adaptation efforts to address  
climate change at the necessary scale and speed. 
Advocates for the facilitation of investments in beneficial projects and infrastructure that 
promote zero emissions  Affirms that the State commits to statewide action that is rooted in 
equity, self-determination, culture, tradition, and the belief that people locally and around 
the world have the right to clean, healthy, and adequate air, water, land, food, education, 
and shelter.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning while  coordinating with other State 
agencies to identify existing and planned fa cilities that are vulnerable to the impact of sea 
level rise, flooding impacts, and natural hazards and assess options to mitigate those 
impa cts, and add sustainable development and climate cha nge adaptation as objectives 
for facility systems. 
Hawai‘i Revised St atutes §226-109 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Cl imate Change Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2 (b) (6): Office of 
Planning; Responsibilities ; Coastal and Ocean 
Policy Managemen
t and Sea Level Rise Adaptation 
Coordination
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225M-2 (b) (9): Office o f 
Planning; Responsibilities; Climate Adaptation and 
Sustainability P lanning and Coor dination
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225M-8:  Statewide 
Sustainability B ranch
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225P-3: Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Mitigatio n and Adaptation Commission
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225P-4: Greenhouse Gas 
Sequestration Ta sk Fo rce
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-5: Z ero Emissions  
Clean Economy Target
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71:  Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Limit
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-72:  Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Limit, Rules
Act 32, Session L aws of Hawai‘i 2017
Senate Concurren t Resolution 44 (2021): Declaring a  
Climate Emergency and Requesting Statewide 
Collaboration Toward an Immediate Just Transition and 
Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate
HB 243  (2021): Relating to Sea Level Rise Adaptation*
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature and transmitted to the 
Governor for consideration. 75Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 13
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action 
Plan (2021)
Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to 
Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper 
(2021)
Ocean Resources Management Plan (2020)
Guidance for Addressing Sea Level Rise in 
Community Planning in Hawai‘i (2020)
State of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation Plan 
(2018)Feasibility and Implications of Establishing a 
Carbon Offset Program for the State of 
Hawai‘i  (2019)
State of Hawai‘i Statewide Coastal Highway 
Program Report (2019)
Feasibility and Implications of Managed 
Retreat Strategies for Vulnerable Coastal 
Areas in Hawai‘i (2019)Summarizes research on how climate change will imp act 
Hawa i‘i's roadways.
Outlines strategies to achieve greater net work resilien ce in the 
face of long-term environmental risks.
Highlights opportunities for Hawai‘i to implement nature-based 
strategies to adapt to and mitigate climate change.
Identifies 18 strategic actions across three focus area goals 
(development and coastal hazards, land-based pollution, and 
marine resources) t
o advance the State‘s management of 
ocean resources.
Provides additional guidance following on the 2017 Sea Level 
Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report.
Assists county planners to build upon and improve existing 
efforts to address sea level rise for four key topics: 
1)vulnerability assessment, 2) land use and development
alternatives, 3) plan and policy alignment, and 4) adaptive
management.
Makes findings regarding retreat programs and their 
relative significance to Hawai‘i and a specific multi‐ prong 
recommendation regarding the feasibility of retreat in Hawai‘i.Evaluates the feasibility for the Hawai‘i State Government to 
foster additional greenhouse gas reductions through carbon 
offset credits.
Develops a scientifically rigorous methodology to assess and 
rank the susceptibility of the state's coastal roads to erosion 
and structural degradation due to ocean hazards such as 
waves, currents, tides and sea level rise
.
Presents a new index methodology that considers the principal 
factors that determine coastal erosion and road degradation. 
The method is based on determination of the index CRESI 
(Coastal Road Erosion Susceptibility Index), which is 
evaluated a t discrete locations along coastal roads in relatively 
close p roximity to the ocean, and segments the coastal roads 
to have l ow, medium, and high susceptibility to structural 
degradation. 
Provides a five-year strategy to reduce risk and losses 
from future natural hazard events. Promotes resiliency and 
sustainability, aids in consistent evaluation, and provides 
a 
means to reduce the costs associated with disaster response 
and recovery, includes a mitigation action plan with information 
such as estimated costs, potential funding sources, anticipa
ted 
timelines, and the expected benefits and avoided losses of 
each hazard mitigation action identified.
Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation 
Report (2017)Provides a statewide assessment of Hawai‘i’s vulnerability to 
sea level rise and nine recommendations to reduce exposure 
to its impacts.
 76Photo Right: Waikı̄kı̄, O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority.Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    77SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left and Right: Hanalei Hill landslide and landslide clearing as a result of heavy rain and floods 
on Kaua‘i Island in March 2021. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation.
Hawai‘i is predicted to 
experience a hurricane every  
16 years that is powerful enough to cause a FEMA disaster declaration.  In fact, climate change is expected to increase this occurrence by causing stronger and more frequent hurricanes, and climate change will also exacerbate vulnerability to other natural disasters such as flooding, wildfires, and tsunamis.Isol ated communities are especially vulnerab le t o natu ral  
disaste rs if utilities become cut off and vital roads b ecome 
impa ssable, giving no access for emergency servi ces to 
reach communities in the crucial hours and days a fter a 
disaster.  In April 2018, this occurred when  floods and lands lides 
from record-breaking rainfall in Kaua‘i resulte d in  severe  damage to 
roads, schools, homes, and other structures.  The comm unitie s of 
Hā‘ena, Wainiha, and Hanalei on Kaua‘i's Nort h Shore  were among 
those most impacted because the only highway b uilt to co nnect 
these communities to the rest of the island was cl osed  into 2019 
due to critical damage from the floods.  However,  to prevent similar 
disaster catastrophes in the future, the County  of Kaua‘ i is leading a 
collaborative initiative for a Wainiha Community Resiliency Center, 
which will service these North Shore communities  befor e, during 
and after future disasters.  Funded by app ropriat ions for disaster 
relie f from Act 35, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019, t he Wai niha 
Community Resiliency Center will include a comm erc ial kitchen, 
supplies staging and storage space, and satel lites o ffices for first 
responders and State Parks officials, as we ll as provi de a community 
gathering space and an improved shelter against hur ricanes 
compared to older buildings.  
 78Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    79LIFE BELOW WATER
Sust
ainable Development Goal 14
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources 
for sustainable development
This goal aims to balance the mindful use of marine and coastal 
resources and conservation. Targets to achieve this goal include: •
Preven
ting and reducing land-based debris and nutrient pollution
that causes harm to marine and coastal environments
•Regulating and managing the use of marine and coastal resources
Overview
Climate changes, including rising air temperatures, changing rainfall patterns, drought, flooding, and 
saltwater contamination, are threatening marine ecosystems .  The changing climate also impacts 
local biodiversity of native species.  Rising ocean temperatures and acidification threaten the 
sustainability of fisheries and coral reefs.  Coral  reefs are a key draw for Hawai‘i's tourism industry, 
adding over $350 million to the local economy each year.  However, coral bleaching has already begun 
(DLNR 2017).  For example, elevated ocean temperatures led to extreme coral bleaching in 2014–
2015, with a nearly 50% decline in coral cover in west Hawai‘i and a 20–40% decline in Maui.  Mass 
coral beaching events are anticipated to continue i f no climate action is taken (Office of Planning 
2020).  
Currently, Hawai‘i's residents are concerned about the human impact on nearshore areas (Office of 
Planning 2020).  There is also the concern for the health of aquatic ecosystems and the migration of 
native fish species as ocean temperatures increase due  to climate change.  Previous fish mortaility 
events in O‘ahu have been connected to slackened trade winds and elevated surface water 
temperatures.  As an island community, many Hawai‘i r esidents enjoy a seafood diet and rely upon 
subsistence living, including fishing; however, decl ines in tuna and billfish populations are projected 
to impact the fishery industry with 2–5% losses per decade (USGCRP 2018).  
There is the need to balance agricultural productivity on the islands, which boost Hawai‘i's food 
security, self-sufficiency and access to fresh food, wi th the pollution to nearshore waters caused in 
part by intensive agricultural practices.  Runoff from residential areas is also a contributing source of 
water pollution.  There is a nascent recognition of  the need to protect groundwater-dependent 
ecosystems.  
One of the three main focus areas of the 2020 Ocean Resources Management Plan is land-based 
pollution, which highlights polluted stormwater runoff as a pervasive and widespread issue within 
Hawai‘i's watersheds (Office of Planning 2020).
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge has  a target to reverse th e trend of natural 
resource loss by increa sing freshwater securit y, watershed 
protection, community-based marine management, invasive 
species prevention and native species restoration.  The 
challenge also includes the goal to significantly increase the 
percentage of Hawai‘i's marine waters under active 
management by 2030. The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes 
a goal to protect 30% of priority watersheds and effectively 
manage 30% of nearshore ocean waters by 2030.
 80Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 14
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Office of Planning's Ocean Resources 
Management Plan (2020)Hawai‘i Nonpoint Source Management 
Plan: 2021-2025 (2021)
Holomua: Marine 30x30 (2020)
Hawai‘i Coral Reef Strategy 2030 (2020)
Water Resource Protection Plan (2019)
Coral Bleaching Recovery Plan (2017)Provides a vision of a healthy nearshore ecosystem with abundant resources that 
allow t he people of Hawai‘i to enjoy coastal waters, support local livelihoods, and feed 
their f
amilies.
Includes four key pillars to effectively manage Hawai‘i's nearshore waters with at least 
30% established as marine management areas by 2030: place-based planning, pono 
practices, monitoring, and protection and restoration.
Outlines recommendations for projects that address cora l reef ecosystem planning and 
summarizes the impact of previous projects on Hawai‘i 's reef resiliency.
Component of the Hawai‘i Water Plan that seeks to protect and sustain statewide g round 
and surface water resources, watersheds, and natural stream environments.
Recognizes that groundwater dependent ecosystems ( GDEs) support a variety of 
valuable
 ecosystem services, such as flood control, water supply, water purification, 
recreational o pportunities, biodiversity, and traditional and customary rights. However, the 
current
 approach for managing ground water in Hawai‘i does not explicitly account for the 
ground w ater discharge needs of GDEs.
Promotes the recovery of coral reefs following the 2014-2015 global coral bleaching  
event by identifying which management interventions are the most likely to promote  
recovery.Identifies 18 strategic actions across three focus area goals (development and coastal 
hazards, land-based pollution, and marine resources) to advance the state's 
management of ocean resources.Establishes goals, objectives, strategies, and milestones to reduce and prevent 
nonpoint source pollution and improve water quality, guiding the state's nonpoint source 
pollution management efforts.
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-11 of the Hawai‘i St ate 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land-Based, Shoreline, and Marine 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 342D: Wate r 
PollutionDescr ibes objectives regarding the sustainable use of marine resources and the 
protection of fragile environmental resources, including species and habitat conservation 
and do-no-harm principles.
Defines the rules and regulations for water pollution management in Hawai‘i under the 
purview of the Department of Health.
Outlin es the rules and regulations for the management of Hawai‘i's coastal zone, 
including the  specification of special management areas.
Outlin es the policies relating to how aquatic resources can be used in Hawai‘i, including 
fishing rights and how to prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species.
Specifies further regulations relating to fishing in the waters of Hawai‘i, including 
licensing and provisions for subsistence fishing. 
Establishes the West Hawai‘i Regional Fishery Management Area in order to improve 
the m anagement o f c
onsumptive and non-consumptive uses of aquatic resources in 
that region.
Outlin es the State regulations surrounding commercial fishing, including reporting 
requirements, licensing, approved and prohibited techniques, and the purchase of 
fishing  vessels. 
Establishes marine life conservation districts and defines what activities are permitted 
within t hose d istricts. 
Specifies how various species will be protected, and how the state will assist in the 
recovery of species‘ population, health, or ecosystems.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205A: Coastal Zone 
Management
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 187A: Aquatic 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 188: Fishing Rights 
and Regulations
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 188F: We st Hawai‘i 
Regional Fishery Management Area 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 189: Commercial 
Fishing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 190: Marin e Life 
Conservation Program
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195D: Conserva tion of 
Aquatic Life, Wildlife, and Land Plants
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    81
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Friends of Hanauma Bay and Ocean Defe nders Alliance Hawai‘i partnered to launch a 
citizen science study during the COVID-19 pandemic saf ety closure on Hanauma Bay’s Coral Colony 
Temp oral Texture Study to determine baseline he alth o f coral within Hanauma Bay’s inner reef. 
Photo Credit: Friends of Hanauma Bay. 
Photo Right: Hanauma Bay on the island of O‘ ahu re ope ned to the public after being closed for 9 mon ths 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The COVID-19  clos ure re juven ated the bay’s marine environment 
providing significant ecosystem restoratio n, the  ret urn an d growth of wildlife and endangered specie s, 
and a 64% improvement in water clarity.  Photo Cre dit: Frie nds of Han auma Bay. 
Coral, or ko‘a, is the first 
species named in the 
Kumulipo.  This is one 
of the many ways Kānaka 
Ma oli underpin the close 
relationship between life on 
land and sea.  Coral's cultural 
signi ficance, along with its 
ecological and economic 
importan ce, is why the 
declining health of Hawai‘i's 
corals in the face of human 
pressures and climate change 
evokes great concern.As a popular destination for coral reefs, Hanauma Bay on  O‘ahu is no 
different in facing this dual threat.  The bay's coral colonies face 
stress from multiple bleaching events, and with nearly 845,000 
visitors in 2019 alone, the coral colonies also show re duced growth in 
more disturbed areas (Star Advertiser 2020, Severino et al . 2020). 
The COVID-19 global pandemic further demonstrated the e ffects of 
visitor traffic: after Hanauma Bay was closed for safety purposes in 
March 2020, water clarity improved by 64% and as much as  
19.5 feet, larger fish were spotted in the reef, and there was a 
reported increase in endangered Hawaiian monk seal activity (Star 
Advertiser 2020, Serota 2020). 
 The bay's closure also allowed the 
nonprofit Friends of Hanauma Bay, in partnership with DLNR-
DAR's Coral Restoration Nursery, to begin coral restorat ion to repair 
damage to the reef (Friends of Hanauma Bay 2021).  When H anauma 
Bay reopened in December 2020, the City and County of H onolulu 
implemented COVID-19 capacity limits, shortened operation hours, 
increased non-resident visitor fees, and closures two d ays a week, 
which allowed for a reopening while continuing reduced pre ssure on 
the coral reef (Star Advertiser 2020).  Although challe nges remain, 
as the bay reopens further, an unmatched opportunity will  be 
provided to monitor visitor impacts from a new baseline and 
determine the best mechanisms to steward a more thriving 
Hanauma Bay.
 82Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    83LIFE ON LAND
Sust ainable De
velopment Goal 15
Protect, restore, and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and 
halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
The objective of “life on land” is to maintain continued thriving 
ecosystems on land and end all threats to land degradation and 
biodiversity loss. Targets to achieve this goal address: 
•Protecting biodiver
sity by reducing degradation of natural habitats,
ending the poaching and trafficking of endangered species, and
introducing measures to reduce the impact of invasive species
•Implementing sustainable management practices that enddeforestation and combat desertification
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge targets include protecting 30% of w atershed 
forests by 2030 and increasing the percentage of t hreatened and 
endangered native species that are managed i n Hawai‘i by 2030.
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a commitment to p rotect 
30% of priority watersheds by 2030, and to implement t he State's 
Interagency Biosecurity Plan by 2027.
Overview
As one of the most geographically isolated regions in the world, Hawai‘i is home to rich and diverse 
ecosystems and species.  However, Hawai‘i also faces many threats to its biodiversity: as of 2015, the 
state's endangered and threatened species accounted for 28% of the nation's total  (DLNR 2015). 
Existing and emerging threats to these native ecosystems and species include invasive species and 
cl
imate change impacts.  Invasive species can aggressively overtake indigenous species and knock 
Hawai‘i's delicate ecosystems out of balance.  This is particularly a threat to Hawai‘i due to the state's 
geographic isolation.  The State's Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission has begun 
this endeavor to identify climate change impacts to native ecosystem through their working paper, 
“Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i”  (Climate Change Mitigation 
and Adaptation Commission 2021).
The Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture, Hawai‘i Invasive Species Council, Hawai‘i Department of 
Land and Natural Resources, H
awai‘i Department of Transportation, Hawai‘i Department of Health, 
the Coordinating Group on Alien Pest Species, and many partnerships with landowners, farmers, and 
environmental and community organizations coordinate to support Hawai‘i's biosecurity (Hawai‘i 
Biosecurity Plan 2016).   
Traditional practices once created a successful  relationship between natural resources and culture, 
resulting in a successful, sustainable community.  Integrating Native Hawaiian cultural  practices and 
traditional ecological  knowledge into natural  
resource management is critical  to protecting and 
maintaining the state's biodiversity (Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance 2010).
 84STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan (2017)
Hawai‘i Forest Action Plan 2016 (2016)
Hawai‘i State Wildlife Action Plan (2015)
Hawai‘i Statewide Assessment of Forest  
Conditions and Trends (2010)
Strategic Plan for Hawai‘i's Natural Area 
Reserves System (2008)Identifies nine priority areas for Hawai‘i ’s forests that include:  water quality  and quantity;  
forest health, invasive species, insects and disease;  wildfire; urban and  community 
forestry; climate change and sea level rise;  conservation of native biodiversity; h unting,  
nature-based recreation, and tourism; forest products and carbon sequestration; a nd U.S. 
tropical island state and territorial issues.
This plan comprehensively reviews the status of the full range of the state’s native  
terrestrial and aquatic species, over 10,000 of which are  found nowhere else on Earth, 
and presents strategies for long-term conservation of species and habitats.
Includes provisions prioritizing the rapid response to invasive species.
Recommends restoring and conserving the native forest species and ecosystems by 
using native species.  
Identifies and defines the Natural Area Reserves System's role in conservation of  
biological e cosystems.Serves as a ten year plan providing a coordinated path forward to increase support for 
local a griculture, protection for the environment, and safeguards for the health and lifestyle  
of Hawai‘i's people. The plan addresses Hawai‘i's most critical biosecurity gaps and 
identifies m ore than 100 policy, processes, and infrastructure actions to take by 2027.
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-11 of the Hawai‘i St ate 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land-Based, Shoreline and Marine 
ResourcesRequires the protection of Hawai‘i's unique and fragile environmental resources.
Requires the State to exercise a conservation ethic, balance activities with ecological 
systems, consider physical attributes of areas when designing activities or facilities, 
encourage beneficial and multiple use of natural resources without causing irreparable 
environmental damage, consider multiple uses in watershed areas, provided such uses 
do not detrimentally affect water quality and recharge
 functions, and encourage protection 
of endangered species.
Defines the State's objectives and policies for the enhancement and preservation of 
Hawai‘i's physical environment, including scenic and natural beauty, and historic 
resources.
Promotes the preservation of views and vistas to enhance the visual and aesthetic 
enjoyment of mountains, ocean, scenic landscapes, and other natural features.
Requires protection of areas, structures, and elements that are an integral and functional 
part of Hawai‘i‘s ethnic and cultural heritage.
Descr ibes the State's objectives and policies for improving air and surface water quality, 
promoting the proper management of natural resources, and strengthening resilience to 
the effects of disasters.
Creates soil and water conservation district within the state and defines what actions the 
State will take to conserve those areas.
Sets regulations related to wildlife management, including conservation, hunting, and the 
protection of wild animals. 
Arranges a fund for the State park system an d defines policies related to those parks 
and their use.
Establishes the Invasive Species Council to study invasive species and prevent their 
spread through intervention.
Creates a Natural Area Reserves program, identifies certain areas to be part of the 
program, and defines what will be done within the areas to protect them from 
degradation. 
Defines the actions for the State of Hawai‘i to protect plants and animals from threats and 
environmental degradation. 
Establishes the Forest Stewardship Program and Forest Stewa rdship fund, in order to 
promote 
the long-term management of privately- and publicly-owned forest land within the 
state. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-12 of the Hawai‘i Sta te 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Scenic, Natural Beauty, and Historic 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i Sta te 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land, Air, and Water Quality
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 180: Soil and 
Water Conservation Districts
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 183D: Wildlife
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 184: State Parks and 
Recreation Areas
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 194: Invasive 
Species Council
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195: Natura l Area 
Reserves System
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195D: Conserva tion of 
Aquatic Life, Wildlife, and Land Plants
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195F: Forest 
StewardshipHawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 15
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    85
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Volunteers participating in the Wai‘anae  Mountains Watershed Partnership outplanting 
1,024 plants in the Wai‘anae Kai Forest Reserve  on O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: Yumi Miyata, Wai‘anae Mountai ns Wate rshed Partnership. 
Photo Right:  ‘Ōhi‘a Lehua growing in uplands of th e K o‘olau Mountains Watershed on O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: Ko‘olau Mountains Watershed Par tners hip. 
Hahai no ka ua i ka 
ululā‘au: Rains always 
follow the forest. 
Histor ically, Kānaka Maoli 
were acutely aware of the 
importance of water and 
were experts in how to 
manage water, as reflected 
in this ‘Ōlelo No‘eau 
(Hawaiian proverb).  
For ests are crucial to 
groundwater recharge by 
preventing rainfall from 
becomin g runoff into the 
ocean.Because of their role in water catchment, forests are a  key 
part of upland watershed ecology.  Watersh eds are  “an  area 
of land, such as a mountain or valley, which co llects  rainwater 
into a common outlet,” and are approximately equiv alent t o the 
trad itional land divisions called ahupua‘a (Ha wai‘ i Association of 
Watershed Partnerships 2021c).  In addition to recharging 
groundwater, the forests in watersheds provide se rvices like 
flood con trol, recreational spaces, carbon dioxid e ab sorption,  air 
and water filtration, erosion control, and h abitat for  cult urally 
and ecologically significant species (Hawai‘i Asso ciat ion of 
Watershed Partnerships 2021d).  In 2003, the Haw ai‘i A ssociation 
of Watershed Partnerships was created betw een existing 
watershed partnerships and the State of Hawai‘i to  coordinate 
watershed protection efforts (HAWP 2021b).  Th e Hawai‘i 
Association of Watershed Partnerships currentl y consis ts of 10 
watershed partnerships comprising nearly 7 5 volun tary public 
and private partners and collectively covers over 2 .2 mil lion 
acres of land (Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partne rships 
2021a).  Watershed partners include landowners compr ising 
among  others, Kamehameha Schools, Department  of Hawaiian 
Hom e Lands, and supportive partners such as T he Nature 
Conservancy, Bishop Museum, and Kupu, which c ontribute 
expertise, capacity, and/or research to the m ission o f protecting 
Haw ai‘i's watersheds (LHWRP 2018, MKWA 2021,  KMW P 2021) . 
Being  joined together under Hawai‘i Associat ion of Watershed 
Partnersh ips allows for greater sharing of resource s, knowled ge, 
and collective advocacy power to amplify the  effect iveness of 
the se individual organizations and watershe d part nerships.  Th is 
scale of collaboration and multi-sector partne rshi p can serve  as an 
example to work together in a kāko u effo rt as  Hawai‘i prepares to 
face future complex challenges from a ch angi ng cl imate.
 86Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    87Sustainable Development Goal 16 PEACE, JUSTICE,  
AND STRONG  
INSTITUTIONS
This goal seeks to create and sustain inclusive societies with 
fair and just institutions at all levels. Targets relating to this goal include:•
Ending violence, abuse
, and mistreatment of people
everywhere by promoting the rule of law at national andinternational levels
•
Promoting equality thr
ough inclusive and representative
decision making
•Establishing accountable and transparent institutions
Overview
Hawai‘i has the highest percentage of mixed-rac e people in the United States, making up 
about 25% of Hawai‘i's population.  H
owever, prejudice and injustice against minorities and 
immigrant communities such as African Americans and Micronesians, among others, still exists 
(V
elasquez-Manoff 2019).  As discussed under SDG 3, low-income households, Native 
Hawaiians, a nd Micronesians face unequal health impacts and health insurance coverage 
compared to h igher income and other racial and ethnic groups in the state.  As previously 
discussed under SDG 4 educational disparities were also highlighted between between racial 
and socioeconomic groups.  Similarly, SDG 5 d iscussed the gender-based inequal ities that 
Native Hawaiian women face.  Finally, as discussed u nder SDG 10, there are opportunities for 
increasing equality in the state.  Thus, achievements in the o ther SDGs would likely positivel y 
impact SDG 16.
The COVID-19 global pandemic and movements demanding racial justice and equality in 2020 
have reinvigorated calls for justice.  The University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa's Truth, Racial Healing, 
and Transformation (TRHT) Campus Center team was recognized on a national platform to 
highlight its work to tackle historical and contemporary effects of racism in September 2020 
(UH News 2020b). Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to justice for all, and build effective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all levels
 88Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 16
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives 
and Policies for the Economy
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-24 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-
Cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and 
Personal Well-Being
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-25 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—Culture
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 92: Public 
Proceedings and RecordsHawa i‘i Revised Statutes §8-16: Peace Day
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil 
Rights CommissionSets goals to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of 
Hawai‘i's population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objectives to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of 
every i ndividual a
nd assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and other 
public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for  individual participation in society. 
Includes provisions for the enhancement of cultural identities, traditions, values, and arts 
of Hawai‘i's people.
Supports sharing the knowledge and understand
ing of Hawai‘i's history and heritage.
Supports activities that promote cultural values, encouraging increased awareness of 
the impact of actions on Hawaiian culture, and promoting strong relationships between 
Hawai‘i's people and visitors.
The formation and conduct of public policy—th e discussions, deliberations, decisions, 
and action of governmental agencies—shall be conducted as openly as possible.Recognizes September 21 of every year as “Peace Day” in order to promote peace 
programs, improve international relations, and increase educational awareness of 
peace.
Prevents discrimination on the basis of race,  color, religion, age, sex, including gender 
identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or 
disability in employment, housing, public accommodations, or access to services 
receiving state financial assistance.
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Reports 
(2020)
University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
2015-2021 (2018)Annual reports on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong state civil rights laws by rebuilding 
capacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for state civil rights law enforcement. 
Includes provisions to prepare more Native Hawaiians to assume leadership roles within 
the University of Hawai‘i and the community.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    89
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left:  Keawanui fishpond of the island of Moloka‘i.  Photo Credit: ‘Āina Momona.   
Photo Right:  Keawanui fishpond of the island of Moloka‘i.  Photo Credit: Mickey Pauole. Moloka‘i is estimated to 
have supported a population 
of 10,500 people prior to 
European contact (SFCA 
2000). 
 Today the island 
is home to approximately 
6,275 people, but the 
systems that once supported 
such a population size 
have been degraded by the 
impacts of climate change, 
land development, and 
colonization (U.S. Census 
Bureau 2019 a,b,c).‘Āina Momona is a Native Hawaiian nonprofit on Moloka‘i 
dedicated to rebuilding this community resilience throug h 
ancestral solutions and achieving environmental health and 
sustainability through four pillars: land, water, food, and 
restorative social justice.  They are based at the Keawan ui 
Fishpond and Cultural Learning Site where they manage the  
55-acre loko i‘a and 8 acres of agricultural land, both of which 
face intense erosion, groundwater depletion, and inva sive species 
threats.  With support from the Ceres Trust, the Conservation 
F
und, and the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric 
Administr
ation (NOAA), their team of community members  
work to revitalize the land and restore traditional food systems; 
and, in partnership with Kamehameha Schools, they will b e 
extending this stewardship and restoration t o the overall Ka‘amola
ahupua‘a.  Current work focuses on stabilizing the soi l and 
sheltering the Cultural Learning Site and loko i‘a against climate 
change-induced storms and winds.  To that end, ‘Āina M omo na is 
collaborating with the Māla Kalu‘ulu Cooperative to incorporate 
agroforestry on site with native species to restore traditi onal food 
systems, ensure ground water retention, and mitigate e rosion. 
Their overall aim is to create self-determination opportunities 
for Moloka‘i residents while also creating a scalable model for 
community-led restoration for other areas similarly impacted by  
climate change, and to restore the Ka‘amola ahupua‘a t o an ‘āina 
momona again. 
 90Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    91PARTNERSHIPS
Sustainable Development Goal 17 
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global 
partnership for sustainable development
This goal recognizes partnerships as a means of implementation for 
sustainable development and includes targets that address bolstering 
multi-stakeholder partnerships that share knowledge, expertise, and 
technology as well as hold themselves accountable. 
Overview
The ultimate success of Hawai‘i's sustainabilit y actions will rely on effective collaboration 
across organizations.  Currently, many partners hips  are already tackling issues related to the 
SDGs discussed in this plan.  These incl ude (but are  not limited to) the Statewide Sustainability 
Program; the State Office of Planning; County Plan nin g Departments; County Climate and 
Sust ainability Offices; Coastal Zone Manageme nt n etwork ; the  Hawai‘i Climate Change 
Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, the Aloha+  Chal lenge;  and  the Hawai‘i Statewide 
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy.
The COVID-19 global pandemic has brought more clarity  to issues that Hawai‘i can work on, 
such as inequality and an economy over-re lian t on tourism, and provides a chance for a “new 
nor mal” to develop as the state recovers from the pandemic.  There is a unique opportunity 
to engage with partners across government, n onprofi ts, the private sector, educational 
institutions, and the public to advance sus tainabi lity  in the coming years.
Partnerships are a key component of several state  policies and programs.
 92VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge serves as an initiative to enab le public-private partnerships to also 
achieve H
awai‘i's sustainability goals. 
Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 17
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-6 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and 
Policies for the Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-108 of 
the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Priority 
Guidelines and Principles to Promote 
Sustainability
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 226-Part 
II of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Planning 
Coordination & Implementation
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2(b)(9): 
Office of Planning Responsibilities; 
Sustainability and Climate Adaptation 
Planning and Coordination
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes 
§225M-8: Statewide Sustainability
Branch
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-3: 
Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and 
Adaptation CommissionDetails provisions for achieving full employment and economic growth including promoting 
Hawai‘i as an attractive market for investment, penetra ting new markets for Hawai‘i's 
products and services, and fostering cooperation between government and private 
sectors in developing employment and economic growth.
Requires policy that emphasizes that “everyone, including individuals, families, 
communities, businesses, and government, has the responsibility for 
achieving a sustainable Hawai‘i.”
Establishes a statewide planning system to coordinate and guide all major state and 
county activities as well as to implement the overall goals, objectives, policies, and 
priority guidelines from the Hawai‘i State Planning Act.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to develop, monitor, and evaluate 
strategic climate adaptation plans and actionable policy recommendations for the state 
and counties addressing expected statewide climate change impacts and provide planning 
and policy guidance and assistance to state and county agencies regarding climate 
change and sustainability.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to develop, organize, and promote 
policies and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and 
climate policies and goals.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to identify, evaluate, and make 
recommendations regarding proposed legislation, regulatory changes, or policy 
modifications to the governor, the legislature, government agencies, private entities, and 
other bodies for the purpose of encouraging activities that best sustain, protect, and 
e
nhance the quality of the environment, economy,  and community for the present and 
future benefit of the people of Hawai‘i.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Climate Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, which is 
administratively attached to the Department of Land and Natural Resources. 
Coordination of this advisory commission is headed jointly by two co-chairs: the 
Chairperson of the Board of Land and Natural Resources and the Director of the State of 
Hawai‘i's Office of Planning, or their designees.
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: Ten 
Year Measurement Update 2008-2017 
(2018)Provides an informal update includes a comp ilation, review and analysis of available 
metrics originally established by the 2008 version of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, 
along with additional recommendations developed by the Office of Planning.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    93
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: Charting 
a Course for the Decade of Action (2021)Serves as the revised and updated version of  the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, 
provides additional recommendations to achieve within the 2020-2030 decade.
Serves as the State's climate and sustainability strategic action plan.SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
According to a study by 
Gallup, social gathering 
places are the top driver 
of people's attachment to 
their community (Knight 
Foundation 2010).  While 
perhaps an intuitive 
conclusion, it reinforces 
the importance of fostering 
connection through 
placemaking and points to 
one way Hawai‘i's strong 
social ties can be maintained 
as com munities grow and 
change over the coming 
decade.In Ho‘olehua, Moloka‘i, the Lanikeha Community  Cen ter is the 
only large facility available for such social gather ings , mak ing  it an 
especially valued asset for the community.  Origin ally proc ured by 
the  Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance  for its kitchen  to assist 
farmers in created value-added products, rep eated interes t led to 
it also becoming a focal location for commun ity events: hālau hula, 
policy workshops for the community, weddings, a Kūpuna Program , 
and school fairs are just a sample of the diverse events  that have 
bee n held there.  The center was also renovate d in  201 7 through a 
State g rant t o better meet community needs, adding features  like a 
new stage, entertainment and sound systems, an upg raded ce rtified 
kitchen, and solar panels (Pactol 2018).  With  its titular  focus on 
farmers, the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance  dedicates  
much work to assisting them in increasing their economic  stability 
and market reach, but its efforts have since g row n to include the 
commu nity at large, and the center mirrors this  broader mission. 
Inde ed, the Lanikeha Community Center has helped  build new 
bridg es and inspired conversations about how to synerg ize the 
excellent work being done by Moloka‘i's many org aniz ations.  The 
CO VID-19 global pandemic brought further opportun ity to build 
this network to fill gaps in the commun ity.  Sin ce the pandemic 
beg an, Lanikeha Community Center has hosted  events such as toy 
giveaways, food distributions, and a monthly farmer's mark et—not 
only lessening economic impacts but also buffering s ome o f the 
pandemic's social disruptions and helping th e co mmun ity remain 
connected.  Ultimately, the Lanikeha Communi ty Center is  both 
reflective of and nurtures community members' d eep com mitment 
to their home, and it is positioned—physic ally and figuratively—to 
become anything the community needs.
Photo left: Lanikeha Community Center and volunteers from the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance 
supporting their community-based COVID-19 relief program to distribute food, produce, hot meals, 
supplies ( masks, sanitizers, etc.), and certificates for drugstore/prescription purchases in Moloka‘i. Photo 
Credit: The M oloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance.
Photo Right: A farm in Moloka‘i from a farmer participating in the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. 
Photo Credit: The Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance.
 94Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    952021–2030  
RECOMMENDED ACTIONS
Hawai‘i has the opportunity to make significant progress toward sustainability over this decade, building on 
the momentum of the past decade. Public engagement on this plan update identified climate action as the top 
sustainability priority over the next 5- and 10-year periods. 
This section presents recommended actions over this decade, 
based on an assessment of: 
Overall, this plan identifies eight focus areas fo r this decade, each of which includes specific st rategies and 
example s of actions that can be taken to advance th e St ate's environme ntal, social, and economic sustainabilit y 
objectives.  The strategies and actions presente d in  this s ection draw from existing strategic plans, laws, 
policies, and input from public and stakeholder engagement.  Some actions can be addressed or begun 
immediate ly over the next five years; others build upon the fiv e-yea r actions or include longer-term strategie s 
that may  begin in the second half of the decade.  Fina lly, this list is not exhaustive but rather seeks to highli ght 
and encourage the adoption of strategic actions ident ified through existing efforts of state agenci es and ot her 
entities.
Photo Credit: State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i Tourism Auth orityAnticipated readiness 
for action, based on the existence of at least some of these commitments:
• The State of Hawai‘i has an 
existing sustainability targetcodified in law.
• Existing state-mandated
policies or government policies are in place to implement actions.
• There is a dedicated state
strategic plan that defines requirements for making progress toward the goalSense of urgency, as identified through public and stakeholder engagementPotential to address important themes identified through public engagement, including:
• Equity is either directly 
or indirectly addressed by implementation of the action.
• The action area is consistent 
with Native Hawaiian and localvalues, including:
–  Intergenerational equity
–  Exp licit honoring and 
protection of native 
practices (e.g., gathering) 
–  Use what you have before 
you build new
• Partnership opportunities 
exist for collaborating to secure funding and implement actions.
• The action area will benefit
local residents.Multiple SDGs addressed
 96Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    97LOCAL AGRICULTURE  
This section bu ilds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-4; Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205; the Hawai‘i Statewide 
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy; and the Hawai‘i Tourism Authority's Strategic Plan. 
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.PROMOTE A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC RECOVERY2021–2030 Focus Area
Encourage the development of 
regional food processing and 
packaging facilities and food hubs 
across all islands to support local 
agriculture distribution.
Work with farmers to address 
barriers such as access to 
retention o f agricultural land, 
adoption of
 innovative 
technologies, affordable 
agricultural workforce housing, and 
irrigation needs.
Enhance the availability of 
financing to help farmers through 
mechanisms such as the livestock 
revitalization program and 
agricultural loan program. 
Develop and distribute locally-
relevant information and data that 
will help agricultural operators 
make informed business decisions.
Provide new and existing farmers 
with access to agricultural 
land, irrigation water, capital 
investments, training, and 
processing/packaging facilities.
Protect lands with a high capacity 
for intensive cultivation of food b y 
minimizing land prices or rents 
based on non-agricultural use.
Expand public outreach and grants 
to farmers, incentivizing the pivot 
to different business strategies. Encourage local food purchases for 
state-run programs including schools, 
universities, colleges, and prisons 
through a Farm-to-State Program.
Support consumer education programs 
that promote local farm recognition and 
inform on the benefits of buying local 
farm products (nutritional, economics, 
social, cultural).
Expand and improve branding and 
labeling programs to identify local 
foods.
Empower and inform agricultural 
producers what minimum quality, 
quantity, and timeliness is required to 
be able to sell local foods in hotels and 
local markets.
Support efforts that encourage the 
visitor industry to purchase local 
products and locally grown food 
whenever appropriate to reduce 
dependence on imports and increase 
local economic activity.
Support 
local food marketing programs 
to 
focus on people, place and products 
throughout the Hawaiian Islands.
Increase agricultural education within 
secondary 
schools, vocational schools, 
and colleges.  
Develop a seafood hatchery and new 
aquaculture farm  for local consumption 
and export.
Explore and invest in value-added 
products from Hawai‘i farms and 
support and educate farmers on 
promotional opportunities to create a 
Hawai‘i marketplace of products. 
Elevate the need for agricultural 
planning and investment to meet local 
food security targets. Encourage susta inable crop management 
practices (e.g., organic farming, no till, 
improved manure management and 
sustainable irrigation practices) that 
may provide environmental services and 
co-benefits, such as protecting against soil 
degradation, providing GHG sequestration, 
increasing biodiversity and soil fertility, and 
maintaining or increasing economic 
production of crops and animal protein in 
order to meet the state's doubling of food 
production goals.
Continue to support the education of Native 
Hawaiian pract ices and other cultural 
farming pract ices such as lo‘i farming to 
enhance local food productivity growth and 
protect Hawai‘i's environment. 
Continue to support the education of the 
genuine threat s of invasive species to local 
farmlands and  surrounding land habitats.
Ensure consistent funding for agricultural 
infrastructure improvements, operations, 
and maintenance .
Continue the Sta te's purchase of fee 
interest
 for available prime agricultural 
lands
 before they are subject to non-
agricultural
 development. 
Coordinate water reuse expansion efforts 
with the Department of Agriculture's 
Agribusiness Development Corporation.
Explore and invest in the technological 
advancement of Hawai‘i-based agriculture 
and food production, including indoor 
greenhouse growing opportunities.
Utilize more smart and high technology to 
improve agricultural production in Hawai‘i. 
Research and study proof of concept for 
large scale protected agriculture as an 
alternative to conventional agricultural 
production. 
Expand public outreach and grants 
to farmers, incentivizing the pivot to 
sustainable and regenerative, and 
greenhouse gas sequestration agricultural 
business strategies. Identify opportunities to provide 
funding for and encourage youth 
engagement in the green workforce.
Incorporate gre en job pathways at b oth 
high school and 2-year college 
programs.
Enlist the support of policymakers, 
educational administrators, and others 
to provide the
 facilities, resources, a nd 
incentives that nurture and enable 
research, innovation, and technology. 
Develop a local green job youth 
corps program that prioritizes the 
State's workforce development
 and 
economic diversification, while 
providing temporary work and training 
opportunities for young adults in 
natural resource management, 
agricultural development, conservation, 
renewable energy, or other 
sustainability 
professions.
Cultivate and sustain interest in youth 
and innovation, farm mentorship and 
other agricultural-related programs t o 
promote vocational interest in 
agriculture, aquaponics, and robotics.STRATEGY 1
Support farmer 
livelihoods STRATEGY 4
Invest in green 
workforce development, 
beginning with youthSTRATEGY 2
Support local markets 
for locally grown foodSTRATEGY 3
Promote sustainable & 
resilient farmland, 
practices, and 
infrastructure GREEN WORKFORCE 
DEVELOPMENT AND 
EDU CATION
This section builds on recommendations 
from existing laws, policies, and strategic 
action plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive 
 98
GREEN WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT ANDEDUCATIONDIVERSIFIED 
ECONOMY  
This section builds on 
recommendations from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic action 
plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy. REGENERATIVE TOURISM 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy,  F
orest Action Plan, and Hawai‘i 
Tourism Authority's Strategic Plan. Recommendations were also 
identified through state, c
ounty, stakeholder, and public input. 
Encourage innovation, entrepreneurship, 
and small business development.
Provide Hawai‘i small business  and 
entrepreneurial
 support and enhance 
skill-building opportunities and w orkforce 
retraining.
Strengthen existing partnerships and 
form new ones to enhance high quality 
job creation in Hawai‘i.
Provide workers with skills to adapt to 
job changes, navigate between careers, 
and create an adaptive workfor ce. 
Develop Hawai‘i's vulnerable workforce 
to include adaptive skills desirable 
in the 21st century job environment, 
leading to greater adaptability, higher 
probability to find work, and pivot during 
or soon after future economic shocks. 
Develop local manufacturing periphery 
(including local creative agencies), and 
business to business (B2B) services. 
Increase investment opportunity for l ocal 
manufacturing. 
Develop sustainable, resiliency-oriented 
products to be 
manufactured locally.
Support business pivots, revenue 
diversity, product manufacturing, and 
sales of local products. 
Integrate circular economic principles in 
local manufacturing opportunities. 
Prioritize resources to stimulate 
development of economic clusters, and 
the competitive advantages shared and 
invested in locally. 
Increase digital and financial literacy 
within Hawai‘i's schools and workforce. 
Foster an ecosystem of innovation, 
research, education, and 
entrepreneurship that creates living-
wage jobs and a diversified economy.Develop emerging industries and 
diversify economic clusters.
Develop creative industry 
infrastructure.
Provide post-production creative 
industry training.
Build a robust media and entertainment 
complex to develop the film industry. 
Strengthen vocational workforce 
training to high-paying creative industry 
jobs. 
Connect local creative industry artists 
to online platforms for sales and 
marketing. 
Empower creative industry content 
creators to market their projects.
Grow three priority sectors: Healthcare 
(including clinical and community 
health), Technology (including IT and 
clean energy), and Skilled Trades 
(including sustainable agriculture, 
manufacturing, sustainable 
development, and construction) . Identify the impacts of and best practices for 
ecotourism. 
Evaluate the feasibility of a state certification 
program to provide authentic ecotourism 
opportunities while also providing for 
enhanced protection of  natural and cultural 
resources.
Assist and recognize visit
or industry 
businesses that operate in an 
environmentally and socially responsible 
manner, including local
 food purchasing, 
waste reduction, and reducing petroleum-
based energy, and water use.
Launch a collaborative t
ourism-based 
environmental sustainability program with 
natural resource partner s to mitigate visitor 
impacts and support responsible tourism 
initiatives.
Protect and enhance re
cognition of Hawai‘i 
as a green destination. 
Incentivize and facilitate a shift to a 
regenerative visitor in dustry that has a 
smaller footprint and
 that aims to sustain and 
improve the quality of life for Hawai‘i 
residents. 
Mitigate impacts of tourism from a 
community standpoint through conducting 
the destination manageme nt 
planning 
process statewide. 
Promote Hawai‘i’s sustainability, natural 
resources, local agriculture, and climate-
resilience through Hawai‘i tourism marketing 
and branding. 
Enable Hawai‘i tourism to contribute to the 
regeneration of Hawai‘i’s natural beauty, 
resources, and unique culture.
Develop a framework for 
a comprehensive 
sea level adaptation and resilience plan for 
the Waikīkī Special District.Monitor local infrastructure to 
support resident
 and visitor activity, 
assist counties in building capacity 
to service international flights, 
provide eco- and green tourism 
opportunities in balance with 
community input.
Convene community, government, 
and industry networks to support 
destination management and 
increase collaboration in 
responding t o negative tourism 
impacts on H awai‘i's commun ities.
Provide members of the 
visitor industry with access 
to comprehensive Hawaiian c ultural 
training, curriculum, and 
programming.
Enhance the visitor experience with 
programs that create and nurtu
re a 
Hawaiian sense of place.STRATEGY 5
Foster the development 
of jobs that can sustain 
families financiallySTRATEGY 6
Support diversification 
of the economySTRATEGY 7
Reduce the 
environmental footprint 
of the tourism industrySTRATEGY 8
Support native 
Hawaiian culture & 
reduce impacts of the 
tourism industry to 
local communities
Development Strategy, Aloha+ 
Challenge, and University of 
Hawai‘i Strategic Directions. 
Recommendations were also 
identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
Hawai'i 2050 Sus tainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||     992021–2030 Focus Area
REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Develop a Climate Action Plan to 
meet the State's Zero Emissions Clean 
Economy Target by 20 45, using 
Science Based Targe ts and the IPCC 
reports.
Require emission reductions by se tting 
a more stringent post-2020 
sector-wide cap.
Continue to measure GHG emissions 
through periodic updates of the state's 
GHG inventory.
Identify types of agricultural and 
aquacultural practices, public land and 
marine use policies, and on-farm 
managing practices that would provide 
greenhouse gas be nefits and resul t in 
tangible econ omic benefits to 
agric ultural  and aquacultural 
operations.
Estab lish short-term and long-te rm 
benchmarks that would indicate 
how effectively agricultural and 
aquacultural activities have helped to 
reach the State's Zero Emission Clean 
Economy Target by 2045.
Explore establishing net-zero GH G 
goals for all projects, including 
construction and infrastructure 
projects, to meet Hawai‘i's Zero 
Emissions Clean Economy Target by 
2045.
Encourage smart- growth st rategies to 
foster urban infill development and re-
development to sign ificantly reduce 
the numb er of vehicular trips take n, 
reduce  traffic and congestion, a nd 
GHG emissions.Screen projects over a particular size 
for impact on climate change mitigation 
or achievement of other SDGs.
Consider the impact of agency plans, 
decisions, and strategies on the S tate's 
ability to achieve its climate  and 
sustainability goals—including  the 
State's ability to achieve th
e Zero 
Emissions Clean Economy Target by 
2045—weighed appropriately against 
their primary purpose.
Give consideration to climate change 
planning in land use planning. 
Investigate the possibility of 
establishing a fund to support and 
incentivize voluntary greenhouse 
gas reduction measures and set 
funding criteria that will make the m ost 
economic sense of the state 
(including from: voluntary contributions 
from individuals or organizations, tax 
revenue, utility ratepayer revenue, or 
financial institutions).Improve the awareness and 
understanding of energy resources by 
investing in ongoing community-based 
energy education. 
Develop a clean energy public 
education plan and curriculum in 
coordination with institutions of public 
education.
Create incentives for energy-efficient 
behavior.
Study how energy conservation can 
be used as an incentive for, and 
complement to, water conservation.Advance the 1- year, 2-year, an d 5-year 
actions identified in the 2020  Hawai‘i Stat e 
Energy Office (HSEO) Annual Report on 
energy efficiency, clean transportation, 
energy assura nce and resiliency, and 
renewable ene rgy deployment.
Align policies and processes to enable 
adoption of mo re renewable energy 
sources and accelerate the adoption of 
storage.
Enable grid imp rovements and 
modernization  toward greater 
interconnection of renewable resources.
Work on innova tive clean ene rgy initiative s 
(for example,  biofuels, hydr ogen, 
microgrids, wo rking with community-friendly 
developers).
Expand micro-g ridding, grid planning, 
cluster-based energy, and smart meters 
throughout the  state. 
Increase rene wable energy in stallations 
through energy performance contracts. 
Increase solar and storage bat tery projects. 
Increase statewide rooftop ph otovoltaic 
installation.
Encourage and expand zero emissions 
vehicle charging in public ar eas, 
commercial area s, workplaces, households, 
and apartment dwellings. 
Improve access to energy efficiency, 
renewable ene rgy, and zero emissions 
vehicle charging options for rental units an d 
condos. 
Inspire and tra nsform Hawai‘i's clean 
energy future and expand the use of 
hydrogen fuel cell technology. 
Educate the g eneral public on the benefits 
of hydrogen fu el cell technology. GHG EMISSIONS 
This section builds on recommendations from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic action plans, i ncluding Hawa
i‘i Revised 
Statutes §225P-4 and §225P-5, and the Carbon Offset Feasibility 
Report. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input. CLEAN & EFFICIENT ENERGY 
These strategies build upon recommendations  from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic  action plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy, HSE O Annual 
Reports, the Water Resource Protection Plan, and the O‘ahu  Resilience 
Strategy. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
STRATEGY 9  
Measure, manage, and plan  
for GHG emission reductionSTRATEGY 12 
Continue to invest in the 
deployment of clean 
energy technologies to 
reduce reliance on fossil 
fuelsSTRATEGY 10
Incorporate climate change 
planning into decision-
making processesSTRATEGY 11 
Promote energy 
conservation and efficiency 
through outreach, 
com munication, and 
community and public 
engagement
 100
REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Implement expanded infrastructure for 
ZEVs, including energy storage and 
increasing the availability  of electric 
charging and hydrogen fueling stations.
Adopt a plan for statewide adoption o f 
ZEVs.
Incorporate ZEVs into State and 
County government fleet.Promote safe, connected multimodal 
transportation  options focusin g on 
equitable opportunities to walk, bike, 
and rely on other forms of active 
transportation to connect to transit.
Develop bike and pedestrian pathway 
networks statewide to increase  
multimodal con nectivity.  
Create transportation hubs designed 
to facilitate transfer from one mode of 
transportation to other modes of  
transportation  while enhancing rider 
comfort and safe ty. 
Expand public transportation  systems 
to facilitate home to work commuting 
in areas with  the greatest economic 
need.
Modernize transportation planning 
and projects to:  enhance equit y for all 
communities, reduce transportation 
costs to residen ts, minimize injuries 
and fatalities, improve public health 
and quality of life, and redu ce 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
Use travel demand forecasting and 
other tools t o assess future road 
capacities and  the effectiveness of 
alternative mod es of travel.
Promote alternative transportation 
options in the development of new 
communities an d infrastructure . Advance sustainable purchasing 
practices for state, county, and 
commercial procurement. 
Use financial mechanisms to 
incentivize
 waste reduction.
Update the Department of Health 
(DOH)
 Health Code as needed to 
increase the
 use of reusables in food 
service. 
Develop strategies to encourage plastic 
reduction and reuse in the food service 
industry, such as reusable container 
incentive programs for customers.
Develop recommendations for the 
implementation of a uniform, statewide 
policy for single-use plastics such 
as plastic bags and polystyrene 
foam containers that can replace 
existing county ordinances and p rovide 
businesses with laws that are 
consistent throughout the state.
Study and develop recommendations 
to implement extended producer 
responsibility to address solid waste, 
including bulky items and plastic 
packaging.
Review and update existing legislation 
to achieve statewide waste reduction 
goals.
Establish a 5-year state-facilitated 
education campaign about waste 
reduction.Reduce waste t hrough encourag ing 
source reductio n and increased  use 
of repairing, recycling, and 
composting services for residential, 
commercial, g overnmental, and 
industrial wa ste.
Accelerate regional composting 
statewide. 
Require owners and managers of 
multi-family dwellings and multi-
tenant commercial buildings to 
provide recycling services.
Comply with la ws requiring 
recycling in state-owned facilities.
Expand opportu nities for met hane 
capture and reuse at landfills, 
waste-to-energy facilities, 
wastewater tre atment facilities, and 
anaerobic digesters.
Evaluate recycling opportunit ies for 
large volume a nd hazardous wa ste 
streams, such as photo-voltaic solar 
panels and lit hium-ion batte ries 
from electric vehicles.
Update the St ate's Integrated  Solid 
Waste Manageme nt Plan.
Review and upda te existing 
legislation t o achieve state wide 
diversion goals.WASTE MANAGEMENT  
This section builds on recommendations from e xisting laws, 
policies, and strategic action plans, including the Department of Health's 
Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report, County of Hawai‘i's 
Climate Action Plan, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan T en Year 
Measurement Report, and the O‘ahu Resilience
 Strategy. Recommendations 
were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.SUSTAINABLE 
TRANSPORTATION
STRATEGY 13 
Expand the adoption of 
zero emission vehicles 
(ZEVs)STRATEGY 14 
Promote alternative 
modes of transportationSTRATEGY 15 
Reduce the generation 
of waste, including 
plastic  wasteSTRATEGY 16 
Increase diversion of 
waste through 
recycling, reuse, and 
compostingThese strategies  build upon existing laws, policies, and strategic action 
plans, including Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-9, the Honolulu Annual 
Sustainability Report, and the Hawai‘i County Climate Action Plan. 
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder,
 and public input.
Haw ai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    101
2021–2030 Focus Area
IMPR O
VE CLIMATE RESILIENCE 
Improve interagency and intragovernmental 
coordination to assess and address impacts 
from sea level rise, flooding,  drought, heat, 
wildfire, and other climate-relate d hazards. 
Inventory and analyze critical infrastructure 
assets threatened by climate-related 
hazards (e.g., those along shoreline 
threatened by chronic and episodic coastal 
hazards and future sea level rise 
projections). 
Investigate the financial risk to /exposure of 
the state associated with climate change. 
Study the impacts of sea level rise 
projections on cultural and archeolo gical 
resources, such as gathering sites, 
fishponds or fish traps (loko i‘a), places of 
worship and shrines (he iau), and 
petroglyphs (ki‘i pohaku). 
Coordinate across agencies with 
operational responsibilities over state 
facilities to: identify existing and planned 
facilities that are vulnerable to climate-
related hazards; assess options to increase 
the resilience of those facilities; and report 
on progress made in implementing 
adaptation strategies in future plans, 
programs, and capital improveme nt needs 
and decisions.
Develop a statewide Climat e Adaptation 
and Resilience Implementation Plan.
Incorporate regional managed retreat or 
strategic relocation analysis into  planning. 
Study the feasibility of and prioritize nature-
based solutions (e.g., on  Hawai‘i's high 
energy shorelines to manage and mitigate 
erosion).  
Include the increased and changing risks of 
chemical contamination due to sea level 
rise and increased flooding from climate 
change in future updates to the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability Plan and 2017 Sea 
Level Rise Vulnerabilit y and Adaptation 
Report, and incorporate efforts to mitigate 
risks in state, county, and local planning.Develop a netwo rk of commun ity 
resilience hub s. 
Engage state and county agencies, 
private secto r, and nonprofit 
organizations in identifying the most 
critical climat e risks facing the state. 
Invest in the continued monitoring and 
research on th e impacts of weather 
hazards under climate change on the 
state and mitigation measures.
Increase public awareness about 
climate risks facing the state, counties, 
and the public and actions th ey can 
take individua lly to increase  their 
resilience and  minimize negative 
impacts.Establish an emergency food supply 
and storage st rategy. 
Identify
 and select adaptation 
strategies
 (e.g., infrastructure 
investments, policy changes) that 
increase Hawai‘i's resilience while 
upholding the goals of doing so 
equitably (e.g., using an equity lens 
framework) and in line with Native 
Hawaiian, Traditional Ecological 
Knowledge, and local values. 
Articulate the business case for 
investments
 in resilience strategies 
(estimating costs of inaction 
as well as financial benefits of 
investments) to ensure reliable 
energy,
 transportation fuel, and other 
s
ystems. 
Seek federal funding to increase the 
resilience of Hawai‘i's infrastructure 
and other assets (through 
implementation
 of strategies to 
protect, accommodate, and/or 
relocate).Develop a Socia l Vulnerability Index to 
identify populations most at r isk.
Apply the Social Vulnerabilit y Index 
(SVI) to develop climate ada ptation 
strategies th at are targeted  to 
addressing vulnerabilities. 
Encourage community involvemen t and 
resilience by working with community 
members, match ing community pa rtners 
with funders, and initiating 
conversations between commun ities 
and the govern ment.STRATEGY 17
Integrate climate change 
adaptation and resilience 
considerations into 
planning and 
implementationSTRATEGY 20
Increase the resilience of 
vulnerable populations 
to the impacts of climate 
change and other shocks 
and stressorsSTRATEGY 18
Assess and communicate 
the impacts of climate 
change to residents, 
businesses, and 
communities most likely 
to be impactedSTRATEGY 19
Implement actions t hat 
improve the
 state's 
resilience to
 climate 
changeThis section builds on recommendations from existing la ws, policies, and strategic action plans, including t he Department of Health-Hazard 
Evaluation and Emergency Response Office Memorandum on Risks of Sea Level Rise and Increased Flooding on Known Chemical 
Contamination in Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Climate Change Adap tation Priority Guidelines, Forest Action Plan, O‘ahu Res ilience Strategy, Ocean 
Resources Management Plan, and the Sea Level Rise Vulnerabil ity and Adaptation Report. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
 102Utilize and fund integration of efficiency 
and green building requirements for new 
construction and major renovation projects. 
Explore further use of building codes 
and standards to improve and direct 
efficiencies among the existing and new 
infrastructure of the State of Hawai‘i.  
Strengthen Hurricane Sheltering to highest 
degree possible to withstand Category 5 
hurricanes. 
Establish a homeowners retrofit grant 
program for severe storm events. 
Ensure statewide resilient emergency 
power generation. 
Incentivize the use of green roofs. 
Study and implement green infrastructure 
design guidelines and policies. 
Support and expand on-site rainwater 
harvesting and stormwater management. 
Expand and integrate permeable pavement 
and concrete opportunities. 
Consider ecoblock/ecobuilding 
development to promote decentralized 
water and sustainable energy to reduce the 
development‘s carbon and water footprints. 
Consider underground cistern/detention 
infiltration chambers and above ground 
cisterns to collect and store rooftop rainfall 
and storm water runoff for water reuse 
strategies. 
Consider the adoption of a “one water 
approach” to provide integrated planning 
and implementation approach to managing 
finite water resources for long-term 
resilience and reliability, meeting both 
community and ecosystem needs.
Utilize green building performance tracking 
and metrics for building retrofits and 
consider impacts to building occupant 
health.Collaborate with design professionals, 
developers, and contractors to identify 
synergistic sustainability and greenhouse 
gas emission reduction strategies that meet 
larger State and County goals while 
supporting affordability and workforce 
development. 
Establish partnerships and capital to build, 
maintain, and enhance infrastructure  and 
fund the developm
ent of sustainable 
housing. 
Encourage innovative residential 
developments which result in: lower cost, 
the sustainable use of resources, more 
efficient use of land and infrastructure, 
greater convenience and privacy, and a 
distinct community identity.
Update building codes and standards 
in a timely manner to increase clean energy 
and energy efficiency, water reuse a nd 
reclamation, and material resource 
efficiency among existing and new 
infrastructure in the State of Hawai‘i. 
Prioritize and fund the implementation and 
adoption of standards such as LEED® and 
ENERGY STAR®, to the extent that they 
support increased
 efficiency of buildings 
within the state.
Continue to explore and support 
low-carbon building products to
 reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions in building 
materials. 
Continue to encourage development within 
existing urban centers to reduce
 vehicle 
miles traveled, reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, promote transit-oriented 
development planning efforts, and increase 
the efficient use
 of infrastructure to create 
distinct communities throughout Hawai‘i.
Emphasize existing building reuse and 
adaptation of Hawai‘i‘s extensive existing 
building stock to limit the embodied  carbon 
impact of new construction. 
IMPROVE CLIMATE RESILIENCE2021–2030 Focus Area
ADV ANCE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES
Promote human-powered 
transportation, multimodal systems, 
and connectivity throughout the 
state. 
Implement the  Department of 
Transportation's Statewide 
Pedestrian Master Plan.
Increase the urban tree canopy and 
increase dedicated bike lane miles. 
Integrate state and county 
transit-oriented development and 
smart growth measures in creating 
sustainable, livable communities.
Increase public availability
 of outdoor 
spaces and provide areas where 
people can interact with natur e and 
each other and  reduce urban  heat 
island effects.
Advance multimodal transportation 
systems into the land use planning of 
new communitie s and redevelopment 
of existing communities.Adopt ZEVs in school fleets (e.g., 
schoolbuses), where feasible. 
Expand more farm-to-school 
opportunities, including the ‘aina pono 
program. 
Incorporate sustainable development 
practices into educational curricula t o 
promote sustainability through 
individual actions as well as 
community-wide initiatives.
Plan and implement strategies to 
achieve net-zero energy use in 
schools  and universitie
s by 2035.
Establish a Sustainability Coordinator 
position for the Department of 
Education to support and incorporate 
sustainable practices in K-12 public 
schools and plan for meeting the net-
zero energy goal in schools. 
Reduce waste through encouraging 
source reduction and increased use o f 
repairing, reuse, recycling, and 
composting services in schools and 
universities statewide.STRATEGY 21
Advance smart growth 
initiatives 
and multimodal 
transportation systemsSTRATEGY 22
Advance sustainability in 
school and university 
operationsSTRATEGY 23
Integrate sustainable design principles into new and 
existing buildingsThis section draws from strategies identified in the priorities of the State's Climate Commission 
and recommendations from existing laws, policies, and st rategic action plans, including  the Aloha+ Challenge, Carbon Offset 
Feasibility Report, City and County of Honolulu General Plan, EPA Greening America's Communities: Greening Iwilei a nd 
Kapalama, O‘ahu Resilience Strategy, State of Hawai‘i Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, and the State of Hawai‘i S trategic Plan for 
Transit-Oriented Development. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
 103
 Hawai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    2021–2030 Focus Area
ADVANCE EQUITY
Invest in programs that will provide 
students
 with digital content via tablets, 
laptops and
 other mobile devices. 
Provide free high-speed Internet 
services in
 public areas in and around all 
state buildings,
 public libraries, and 
schools. 
Enable rapid introduction of community 
broadband in areas that do not have 
effective broadband service. 
Identify barriers to the adoption of 
broadband and information technology 
services through
 collection of public and 
private sector data, including outreach 
survey activities. 
Expand broadband and increase remote 
work opportunities to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions from commuting, and 
address
 equity for rural communities and 
other
 broadband-dependent services.
Maintain a broadband mapping service 
to
 identify underserved communities.
Develop and implement provider and 
consumer incentives accordingly for  last-
mile installation or service subscription to 
encourage adoption and foster provision 
of
 affordable services in strategic areas.
Transition Hawai‘i's government toward 
more
 digital systems. 
Invest in and improve existing cable 
landing
 infrastructure. 
Grow the Statewide Geographic 
Information
 Systems Program.
Support and adopt the goals set forth in 
the Digital Equity Declaration for Hawai‘i 
adopted
 by the state's Broadband Hui.
Expand strategic broadband 
infrastructure
 to build a robust, resilient 
network including government-owned, 
non-profit or cooperative networks to 
enable all Hawai‘i residents to
 access 
the global internet. Implement strategies identified in the 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and 
Ten-Year Plan and the Hawai‘i State 
Functional Plan on Housing.
Implement alternative financing 
mechanisms to support affordable 
housing, such as mixed-use 
developments.
Establish public-private partnerships to 
fund the development of sustainable 
housing. 
Increase affordable housing 
opportunities for households up to 
140% of the AMI. 
Increase and sustain the supply of 
permanent rental housing that is 
affordable and accessible to Hawai‘i 
residents, particularly those with 
incomes at or below 80% AMI.
Support Hawaiian Home Lands 
Homesteading programs.Work to reduce current homelessness 
by supporting rapid rehousing 
programs t hat provide equitable 
financial a ssistance to help people 
access safe  housing. 
Combat future homelessness by 
identifying persons at risk and 
connecting them with homelessness 
prevention programs such as 
supportive s ervices, mediation in 
housing court,  and rent subsidies. 
Support permanent supportive housing 
for chronically homeless individuals 
experiencing the longest episodes of 
homelessness.
Review and implement best practices 
from programs such Kahauiki Village 
(O‘ahu), Huliau (Maui) or Kealalula 
at Pua Loke (Kaua‘i) that combine l ow-
cost housing models with on-site 
supportive services, and a specific 
preference for households transitioning 
out of homelessness.Boost childcare, eldercare, and 
education, and offer support for women 
whose jobs and family roles may have 
been especially hurt by the COVID-19 
global pandemic. 
Increase sustainable employment 
opportunities for all, regardless of 
gender identification.
Increase gender diversity across state, 
local, and private sector leadership 
positions.
Increase awareness of the gender 
spectrum across all levels of 
government.
Ensure the representation of women, 
youth, LGBTQ+ persons, and 
immigrants  within all levels of decision-
making.STRATEGY 24
Strengthen broadband 
access to support digital 
learning and online 
solutions in rural areasSTRATEGY 27
Continue to advance 
opportunities for all, 
regardless of genderSTRATEGY 25
Continue to improve 
economic and social  
sustainability of  
individuals t hrough  
access to  affordable 
housingSTRATEGY 26
Continue to implement  
strategies that reduce 
homelessness in Hawai‘i 
to enhance livelihoodsACCESS TO RESOURCES  
Actions in this section build on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Broadband  
Strategic Plan, Hawai‘i 
Housing Planning Study, Housing Functional Plan, and the State of Hawai‘i 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan. Recommendations were also 
identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.GENDER 
EQUITY
This section build s on recommendatio ns  
from existing laws , policies, and str ategic 
action plans, inc luding the Femini st 
Economic Recovery  Plan. Recommendati ons 
were also identi fied through state,  county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
 104
ADVANCE EQUITY2021–2030 Foc us Area
INSTITUTIONALIZE SUSTAINABILITY
Continue to leve rage governme nt 
public-privat e partnerships to advance 
sustainable deve lopment goals.
Increase coor dination across 
government, nonprofits, the private 
sector, and communities to address 
and implement the SDGs.
Fund and staff  the State Sustainability 
Program and ot her statewide a nd 
county coordina ting programs 
responsible f or implementing the 
SDGs.Update portions of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act t o reflect current priorities 
for sustainability and climate  change 
adaptation (e. g., focus on t he update 
and modernization of the agriculture 
industry), including those identified in 
this plan.
Update the State Functional 
Plans that were not recently updated 
during the 21st  century, to align with 
climate change and sustainability 
targets and bet ter reflect th e current 
state of plann ing needs, with 
a  particular f ocus on the En ergy, 
Agriculture, Conservation, Recreation, 
Transportation, and Tourism 
Functional Pla ns. 
Integrate land use planning to a ddress 
Hawai‘i's compe ting uses 
of land to mut ually obtain local food 
production goa ls, affordable housing 
needs, sustaina ble energy goa ls, and 
conservation.
The State Sust ainability Pro gram 
should measure the progress of these 
recommendation s on every 5th year 
between the decennial update of 
this plan to e nsure progress t oward 
Hawai‘i's sust ainability goa ls.Procure environm entally preferable and sust ainable products,  including 
recycled a nd recycled- content, bio-ba sed, and oth er resource-efficient products 
and materials. 
Design and construct governm ent buildings that meet the LEED® rating 
systems or ano ther comparable state-appro ved, nationally recognized, and 
consensus-base d guideline, sta ndard, or system, except whe n the guidelin e, 
standard, or system interferes or conflicts with the use o f the building or facility 
as an emergency shelter.
Implement water and energy efficiency pract ices in operations to reduce waste 
and increase co nservation. 
Incorporate p rinciples of wast e minimizatio n and pollutio n prevention,  such as 
reducing, revising, and recycling as a standard operating practice in programs, 
including pro grams for wast e management in construction and demolition 
projects and of fice paper and packaging recycling programs. 
Implement strat egies to work toward on-site water reclamat ion and develop or 
retrofit infrastructure to support water reuse in 100% of government facilities by 
2045. 
Explore further opportunities to retrofit existing structures and to design new 
structures that  reduce our carbon footprint  and increase the government's 
ability to adap t to climate change impacts.
Maximize the u se of solar o n or around all state buildings and parking f acilities, 
especially for  new construct ion and major renovations.STRATEGY 28
Invest in staff and other 
resources to coordinate 
and advance sustainability 
goals across state 
agencies and local 
governmentsSTRATEGY 29
Update state policies to 
reflect sustainability and 
climate change prioritiesSTRATEGY 30
Incorporate sustainability into government 
operationsGREEN 
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONSGOVERNMENT CAPACITY TO ADDRESS SUSTAINABLITY
Strategies in this section build upon recommendations from existing 
laws, and policies. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Strategies in this section build upon recommendations from existing 
laws, and policies. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Hawai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    105
2021–2030 Focus Area
PRESERVE THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT 
Work toward the 2050 cesspool 
reduction requirement and develop 
infrastructure to support the 
elimination
 of cesspools. 
Increase
 the shared understanding of 
green stormwater infrastructure 
among
 homeowners, government 
officials, practitioners, and private 
industry
 through continued outreach 
efforts. 
Evaluate the use of green 
infrastructure along Hawai‘i's 
shoreline
 and t hroughout the coastal 
zone,
 with the dual-benefit o f 
controlling erosion and other 
shorelin
e processes while mitigating 
the impacts of land-based pollution 
and inland flooding.
Sponsor symposia and trainings on 
green
 infrastructure installation and 
m
aintenance for professionals, 
homeowners, and advocates.
Identify adaptations needed to 
implement
 green  infrastructure 
successfully in Hawai‘i's unique 
conditions
 (topography, climate, 
soils, and development patterns).
Study the efficacy, cost, and  lifespan 
of green infrastructure
 and traditional 
water management techniques 
compared to the ‘grey‘ infrastructure 
currently 
utilized in Hawai‘i.
Ensure that water quality 
improvement
 and water reuse 
strategies are incorporated with land 
u
se planning. Establish mandatory recycled water 
use zones with in reasonable t ransport 
distances from major s ources of 
recycled water and e stablish 
i
ncentives for developers. 
Upgrade Water Reuse regulations t o 
allow unrestricted irrigation with R -1 
recycled water and allow use  of 
municipal delivered R-1 recycled 
water
 in individual residences for 
landscape and crops irrigation.
Allow groundwater recharge with 
recycled water for: use as a barrier 
against
 seawater intrusion, aquifer 
storage and recovery, indirect
 potable 
reuse, and as a flood m itigation 
s
trategy. 
Mandate use of recycled water  where 
available for golf course, l andscape, 
and agriculture irrigation w ithin 
d
esignated recycled water use zones.
Develop standards and guidelines for 
stormwater reclamation and reuse. 
Conduct water audits of public water 
systems to verify use and aid water 
providers
 in identifying water  losses. 
Develop water shortage plans for 
priority
 water management areas. 
Upgrade water reuse regulations t o 
encourage uses of graywater w ithin a 
development parcel with a
 simplified 
permitting system.
Ensure that water quality 
improvement
 and water reuse 
strategies
 are incorporated with land 
u
se planning.Protect coral r eef systems by 
establishing a network of ecological-
connected marine management areas, 
informed by ecological and socio-
cultural desig n principles cr eated using 
the best readily available science, local 
expert knowledg e including traditional 
ecological knowledge. 
Increase education and outreach  efforts 
to build a greater public awareness for 
responsible behavior affecting aquatic 
resources.
Support invasive species management 
and watershed protection.Expand the use of sea level rise 
and land cover data in conducting 
stormwater
 assessments and modeling.
Protect ahupua‘a that recharge 
freshwater
 supplies.
Evaluate the use of green stormwater 
infrastructure along Hawai‘i's s horeline 
and throughout the coastal z one, with 
the dual benefit of
 controlling erosion 
and other shoreline p rocesses while 
mitigating the  impacts of land-based 
pollution and
 inland flooding. STRATEGY 31
Improve water quality 
through reduced 
pollution and dumpingSTRATEGY 34
Manage climate change 
impacts to marine 
resourcesSTRATEGY 32
Support water  r euse  
strategies to  conserve  
waterSTRATEGY 33
Esta blish policies to 
protect Hawai‘i's unique 
marine ecosystemsCLEAN WATER
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, 
and strategic action plans, including the Ocean Resources Management 
Plan, Water Resources Protection Plan, and the Water Reuse Plan.  
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.MARINE RESOURCES
& ECOSYSTEMS
This section builds on recommendations from  existi ng l aws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Alo ha+ Challenge, Forest Action Plan, 
Hawai‘i Coral Reef Strategy, Holomua: Mari ne 30 x30 Pl an, and the Ocean 
Resour ces Management Plan.  Recommendations were als o identif ied 
through state, county, stakeholder, and publ ic input.
 106
PRESERVE THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
Support long-t erm hydrologic monitoring programs to 
understand and document changes in watershed productivity 
that result fro m improved watershed management activities.
Increase research and monitoring of new emerging watershed 
and forest threats and develop approaches and management 
tools for controlling and reducing impacts on watersheds w here 
f
ound.
Identify specific areas, regions, or watersheds to target for 
concentrated efforts and collaborate on setting priority areas
 for 
watershed management with key federal, state, and c ounty 
agency partners, landowners, and stakeholders.
Support research on the effects of climate change on 
watersheds and water resources in Hawai‘i.
Improve collaboration among county water departments, the 
CZM Program, DOH, EPA, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
(USFWS), DAR, and NRCS, which have overlapping 
priorities, to jointly set future priorities, to strategically advance 
projects f or competitive grant opportunities at the local and 
national
 watershed-scale conservation programs, and to 
maximize
 the amount of watershed acreage being protected 
and the c onservation benefits realized.
Improve methods for targeting and communicating with 
communities and the public about the importance of w atershed 
management, the threats to Hawai‘i's forests, a nd the 
community's role and contribution to improving
 management of 
watersheds locally and across the state.
Improve monitoring, data collection, and information sharing 
between the watershed partnerships, various private 
and public land management programs, and the ISCs to 
consolidate and collect comparable data regarding watershed 
and forest health, location of invasive species, management 
actions being taken, and impacts of land management a ctivities 
on water quality and quantity. 
Continue to implement non-point source water pollution 
management strategies to restore impaired waters and protect 
high quality waters from non-point source pollution.Continue to fun d, manage, prote ct, and 
improve Hawai‘i's natural resources against 
climate hazards.
Identify the ade quate level of  hydrologic 
and climatic d ata collection needed 
statewide to e nable effective decision-
making about water security.
Improve recharge estimates t o include the 
best available  information on climate 
change impacts. 
Improve estimat es of stream flo w 
characteristics, particularly during low-flow 
conditions. 
Understand the  impacts of native vs. non-
native plant species on water resources 
and watersheds by su pporting research 
and long-term hydrologic monit oring 
programs. 
Construct new d eep monitoring wells in 
critical aquifers to gather and utilize dat a to 
identify impacts from pumpage, climate, 
and land use changes; verify fresh water 
sustainable yie lds; and monit or recharge 
trends. 
Reduce invasive species impacts through 
implementing Hawai‘i Interage ncy 
Biosecurity Plan .Restore and co nserve native forest 
species and ecosystems by using 
native species where possible and 
discouraging the use of potentially 
invasive species. 
Ensure that local and statewide climate 
change and drought plans, policy, and 
initiatives address wildfire. 
Monitor resource vulnerability to 
climate change through improved data 
collection and refinement of models 
that are specific to Hawai‘i.
Investigate and pursue opportunities 
for obtaining certification of  sustainable 
production and harvest p ractices for 
common market species. 
Complete comprehensive management 
plans for all state forest reserves. STRATEGY 35
Protect and manage watershedsSTRATEGY 36
Continue to adopt strategies 
that protect land-based 
natural resourcesSTRATEGY 37
Conserve working forest 
landscapes, protect 
forests from harm, and 
enhance public benefits 
from trees and forestsNATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION 
This section builds on recommendations from existing la ws, policies, and strategic action plans, including the 
Forest Action Plan, Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority Strategic Plan, 
Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper, and the Water Resources 
Protection Plan.  Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
Haw ai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    107
Photo Courtesy: State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i Tourism Authority2021–2030 Focus Area
PERPET U
ATE TRADITIONAL 
ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE AND VALUES
Foster opportunities to recommit to 
traditional practices and principles as 
well as transmit and generate new 
cultural knowledge and practices to 
inform sustainability strategies.
Incorporate Native Hawaiian and 
Traditional Ecological Knowledge and 
practices in
 the planning for Hawai‘i's 
sustainability and the impacts of 
climate change.
Continue to require certain board a nd 
commission members to attend a n 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs-sponsored 
training course to ensure i ndividuals 
are familiar
 with their l egal 
responsibilities regarding Native 
Hawaiian rights and the public trust 
doctrine.
Prepare more Native Hawaiians to 
assume leadership roles within the 
community and our institutions. 
Elevate the position of Hawaiian 
cultural experts to develop standards 
and practices.
Support Native
 Hawaiian and other 
cultural festivals and events
 that 
perpetuate Hawai‘i's island culture and 
communities. 
Support programs that help
 to 
revitalize and  normalize ‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i. STRATEGY 38
Ground climate and 
sustainability strategies 
in our cultural 
foundationThis section builds on recommendations from  existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans.   Re com mendat ions were 
also identified through state, county, stakeholder , an d public inp ut. 
 108‘A‘O HE HANA NUI KE ALU ‘IA 
No task is too big when done togethe r by all
The disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 global pandemic created space to reflect on Hawai‘i's values, 
consider what makes Hawai‘i unique and resilient, and recognize some of the fault lines in our communities that 
make us vulnerable to shocks and stressors.  At the tim e of the development of this plan, the COVID-19 global 
pandemic looms large.  Recovery from the COVID-19 global  pandemic is both an enormous challenge and a once-
in-a generation opportunity to rethink what was considered unchangeable.  We can choose to innovate, to do 
things differently, to re-focus on the values and culture we want to perpetuate. 
Climate change will bring new challenges that Hawai‘i has not yet seen.  We will increasingly experience shocks 
and stressors due to climate change.  There is good information about the projected changes and many of the 
strategies recommended in this plan will  help increase the Hawai‘i's resilience. 
This decade is a critical time to act.
Hawai‘i has already made significant sustainability com mitments through laws, policies, and plans that reflec t 
our values.  For the first time, this updated plan presents these commitm ents as a collective whole and aligned 
with the SDGs.  There is much work yet to be done to achieve these sustainability goals and commitments. 
The strategies identified in this plan point to what is urgent to undertake over this decade. 
A successful Decade of Action in Hawai‘i  will require :
Strat egic prioritization of 
limited resources.  
When prioritizing investments, funders 
should evaluate whether the 
activity contributes to one or more SDGs, 
is ready for action (e.g., 
existing targets, policies, plans, 
and/or partnerships are in place), 
addresses an urgent need, directly 
or indirectly addresses equity, 
explicitly protects our values, and 
will benefit local residents. 
Development of metrics to define 
success and then enable measurement 
and tracking of our progress. 
Defined endpoints and metrics for success 
will make it possible to measure 
advancements and identify where gaps 
remain; in some cases, targets and metrics 
have already been identified whereas a 
collective vision will need to be developed 
in other cases.Identification and 
commi tment from lead 
and supporting actors. 
There are opportunities for 
ever yone (elected officials, state 
agencies, counties, community 
organizations, the private sector, 
students, and residents) to lead 
or supp ort efforts to achieve 
these strategies; collaboration 
will be essential.
A realistic timeline to work toward. 
We can get m oving  quickly on some 
strategies, for which sustained efforts will 
be necessary to make steady, incremental 
process.  Othe rs may require significant 
upfront planning, buy-in from disparate 
par ties, and securing financial support 
before a swift and dramatic change can be 
made.  Establishing and clear and feasible 
timeli ne that sets out incremental 
milestones will ensure greater success. 
Let's work together toward an equitable, resilient, and s ustainable Hawai‘i.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    109
REFERENCES 
AAUW . (2020). The Fight for Pay Equity: A State Road Map for Ha-
wai‘i, 2020 Update.  https:/ /ww3.aauw.org/ aauw_check/pdf_download/
show_pdf.php?file=Gender_Pay_Gap_Hawaii   
Aldrich, Daniel & Meyer, Michelle. (2015). Social Capital and Com-
munity Resilience. American Behavioral Scientist . 59. 254-269. 
10.1177/0002764214550299. https:/ /www.researchgate.net/publica-
tion/281601274_Social_Capital_and_Community_Resilience 
American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy (ACEEE). (2020). 
2020 State Energy Efficiency Scorecard . https:/ /www.aceee.org/
sites/default/files/pdfs/ACEEE_ScrSht20_Hawaii.pdf  
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). (2019). 2019 Hawai‘i 
Infrastructure Report Card . https:/ /www.infrastructurereportcard.
org/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/ASCE-24199_Full-REPORT-2019-FI-
NAL.pdf 
Arizona State University (ASU) Office of Sex Trafficking Intervention and 
The Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women. (2019). Sex Traf -
ficking in Hawai‘i – The Stories of Survivors.  https:/ /governor.hawaii.
gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Executive-Summary-Part-II-Sex-Traf-
ficking-in-Hawaii-.pdf 
Associated Press. (2020, September 18). Hawai‘i's Unemployment 
Rate Ties for Third-Worst in Nation . https:/ /www.usnews.com/news/
best-states/hawaii/ articles/2020-09-18/hawaiis-unemployment-rate-
ties-for-third-worst-in-nation 
Brace, Andrea M., Todd W . Moore, and Todd L. Matthews. (2020). The 
Relationship Between Food Deserts, Farmers‘ Markets, and Food 
Assistance Programs in Hawai‘i Census Tracts.  https:/ /hawaiijour-
nalhealth.org/past_issues/hjhsw7902_0036.pdf
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2018, November 8). 
Unemployment rate lowest in Hawaii, highest in Alaska, in Octo-
ber 2018.  https:/ /www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2018/unemployment-rate-low-
est-in-hawaii-highest-in-alaska-in-october-2018.htm 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2021). Economy at 
a Glance: Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.bls.gov/eag/eag.hi.htm 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2021, March 23). 
Alternative Measures of Labor Underutilization in Hawaii – 
2020.  https:/ /www.bls.gov/regions/west/news-release/laborunderutili-
zation_hawaii.htm 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. (2021, March 5). Whole 
School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC).  https:/ /www.cdc.
gov/healthyschools/wscc/index.htm Cerizo, Kehaulani. (2021, March 11). 
Over half of eligible residents on 
Lanai, Molokai vaccinated. The Maui News.  https:/ /www.mauinews.
com/news/local-news/2021/03/over-half-of-eligible-residents-on-la-
nai-molokai-vaccinated/ 
City and County of Honolulu. (2002). General Plan: Objectives and 
Policies.  http:/ /www.honoluludpp.org/Portals/0/pdfs/planning/gener-
alplan/GPReport.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2018). O‘ahu General Plan Review Report 2010-2017. http://www.
honoluludpp.org/Portals/0/pdfs/planning/generalplan/GPUpdate/
GP%20Review%20Report_web.pdf
City and County of Honolulu. (2019). TOD Honolulu.  http:/ /www.hono-
lulu.gov/tod City and County of Honolulu. (2020). Climate Adaptation Design 
Principles for Urban Development . http:/ /www.honolulu.gov/rep/
site/dpptod/climate_docs/Climate_Adaptation_Design_Principles.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu. (n.d.). Revised Ordinances of Honolulu, 
Chapter 24: Development Plans. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/ocs/
roh/193-site-ocs-cat/977-roh-chapter-24.html   
City and County of Honolulu. (n.d.). Revised Ordinances of Honolulu, 
Chapter 30: Water Management. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/rep/site/
ocs/roh/ROH_Chapter_30_.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply (BWS). (2016). 2016 
Water Master Plan. https:/ /boardofwatersupply.com/bws/media/files/
water-master-plan-final-2016-10.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2015). Making Honolulu an Age-Friendly City: Action Plan. http:/ /
agefriendlyhonolulu.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/Honolu-lu_Age-
Friendly_City_Action_Plan_2015.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2020, March 3). Brownfields Assistance. http:/ /www.honolulu.gov/
tod/dpp-tod-resources/brownfields-assistance.html#:~:text=Honolu-lu%
20has%20received%20two%20grants,cleanup%20for%20redevelop-
ment%20to%20occur 
Coleman-Jensen, Alisha, Matthew P. Rabbitt, Christian A. Gregory, and 
Anita Singh. (2020). Household Food Security in the United States 
in 2019. ERR-275, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Re-
search Service. https:/ /www.ers.usda.gov/webdocs/
publications/99282/err-275.pdf ?v=6835.6 
County of Hawai‘i. (2019). Resolution 322-19: Resolution Declaring a 
Hawai‘i County Climate Emergency and Requesting Regional 
Collaboration Towards an Immediate Just Transition and Emer-
gency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate. http:/ /records. 
hawaiicounty.gov/weblink/DocView.aspx?dbid=0&id=985350&cr=1  
County of Hawai‘i. (2020). County of Hawai‘i Community Develop-
ment Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Action Plan. 
https:/ /recovery.hawaiicounty.gov/Home/ShowDocument?id=302592
County of Kaua‘i. (2012). Kaua‘i Multimodal Land Transportation 
Plan. http:/ /plankauai.com/wp-content/uploads/Kauai-MLTP-Fi-
nal-compressed.pdf
County of Maui. (2019). Resolution No. 19-209: Acknowledging 
a Climate Emergency and Committing to an Immediate Just 
Transition and Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe 
Climate. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/DocumentCenter/View/120651/
Reso-19-209
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2012). Maui 
Island Plan: General Plan 2030. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/1503/
Maui-Island-Plan
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2016). Lā-
na‘i Community Plan. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/
DocumentCenter/View/105983/2016-Lanai-Community-Plan-?bidId= 
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2018). 
Molo-ka‘i Island Community Plan. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/
Document-Center/View/8220/Molokai-Community-Plan-2018?bidId=
County Water Use and Development Plans. https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/
cwrm/planning/hiwaterplan/countyplans/
 110Creamer, Beverly. (2019a, April 2). Health in Hawai‘i: Good News, But 
Not for Everyone. Part 1: The Challenge. Hawai‘i Business Magazine. 
https:/ /www.hawaiibusiness.com/change-report-health/#part1. 
Creamer, Beverly. (2019b, April 2). Health in Hawai‘i: Good News, But Not 
for Everyone. Part 2: We‘re No. 1. Hawai‘i Business Magazine. https:/ /
www.hawaiibusiness.com/change-report-health/#part2 . 
Earthjustice (2013). Petition to Amend an Instream Flow Standard. 
https:/ /e963f10d-efd1-4673-b16c-54490dc7911f.filesusr.com/ugd/5f73cf_  
fe919461043a471a873a85cbbf756f1a.pdf 
Energy Information Administration (EIA). (2019). State Energy Data Sys-
tem. https:/ /www.eia.gov/state/?sid=HI 
Environmental Protection Agency. (2017). Healthy Benefits of Green 
Infrastructure in Communities. https:/ /www.epa.gov/sites/production/
files/2017-11/documents/
greeninfrastructure_healthy_communities_factsheet. pdf 
Environmental Protection Agency. (n.d.). Links and Resources About Food 
Recovery in Honolulu. https:/ /www.epa.gov/sustainable-management-food/
links-and-resources-about-food-recovery-honolulu 
Environmental Protection Agency. (2020). Understanding Global Warming 
Potentials. https:/ /www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/understanding-global-warm-
ing-potentials#Learn%20why 
Fernandes, Megan. (2019). Hawai‘i ranks among most energy efficient 
states in the US, report says. https:/ /www.bizjournals.com/pacific/
news/2019/10/01/hawaii-ranks-among-most-energy-efficient-states-in.html
Friends of Hanauma Bay. (2021). Restoration: Coral Restoration. http:/ /
www.friendsofhanaumabay.org/restoration/ 
Grossman, Dakota (2021, April 10). Health centers look to fill gaps in 
vaccination efforts. The Maui News. https:/ /www.mauinews.com/news/
local-news/2021/04/health-centers-look-to-fill-gaps-in-vaccination-efforts/  
Hastings, Z., Ticktin, T., Botelho, M., Reppun, N., Kukea Shultz, K., Wong, M., ... 
& Bremer, L. (2020). Integrating co  production and functional trait ap-
proaches for inclusive and scalable restoration solutions. Conservation 
Science and Practice.  https: //www.researchgate.net/publication/342932510_ 
Integrating_co-production_and_functional_trait_approaches_for_inclusive_ 
and_scalable_restoration_solutions 
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships (HAWP). (2021a). About Us. 
http: //hawp.org /about-us/
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021b).  History.  http: //hawp.  
org /about-us/history/
H
awai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021c). What is a Water-
shed?  http: //hawp.org/what-is-a-watershed/
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021d). Why Watersheds 
Mat ter.  http: //hawp.org/why-watersheds-matter/
Hawai‘i Community Foundation, Hawai‘i Fresh Water Initiative. (2015). A 
Blueprint for Action: Water Security for an Uncertain Future, 2016-
2018 . https: //www.hawaiicommunityfoundation.org/file/cat/Fresh_Water_ 
Blueprin
t_FINAL_062215_small.pdf
Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance. (2010). Hawaiian Culture and Conserva-
tion in Hawai‘i.  https: //www.Hawaiiconservation.org/wp-content/uploads/
Culturally-Grounded-Conservation.pdf 
Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance. (2021, March 3). Addressing Threats . https: //
www.hawaiiconservation.org/our-approach /addressing-threats/
H
awai‘i Green Growth. (2020). Aloha+ Challenge. https: //alohachallenge.  
hawaii.gov/Hawai‘i Revised Statutes,  Objectives and policies for facility systems—in 
general, §226-14 (1986).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_
Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0014.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – solid 
and liquid wastes, §226-15 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0015.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – water, 
§226-16 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0016.htm
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—land-based, shoreline, and marine resources, §226-11 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0011.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—land, air, and water, §226-13 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0013.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—scenic, natural beauty, and historic resources, §226-12 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0012.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—culture, §226-25 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0025.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—education, §226-21 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0021.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—individual rights and personal well-being, §226-24 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0024.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—social services, §226-22 (1990). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0022.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Establishment of an office paper and other materials 
recovery program, §342G-45 (1991).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342G/HRS_0342G-0045.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Goals for recycled product procurement, §342G-
41 (1991). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342G/HRS_0342G-0041.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – telecom-
munications, §226-18-5 (1994). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0018_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – trans-
portation, §226-17 (1994). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0017 .htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy efficiency and environmental standards 
for state facilities, motor vehicles, and transportation fuel, § 196-9 (2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol03_ch0121-0200d/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0009.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i renewable hydrogen program, §196-10 
(2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0010.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, State support for achieving alternate fuels standards, 
§196-42 (2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrsarchive/hrs2006/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0042.HTM
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy-efficiency portfolio standards, §269-96 
(2009).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0096.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Specific research and promotional functions of the 
department, §201-3 (2009). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0201/HRS_0201-0003.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Priority guidelines and principles to promote 
sustainability, §226-108 (2011). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0108.htm 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    111
REFERENCES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Climate Change and Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines, §226-109 (2012). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0109.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Employment Practices, Chapter 378 (2013). 
https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol07_Ch0346-0398/HRS0378/ 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i climate change mitigation and adapta-
tion commission; general functions, duties, and powers, §225P-3 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HR-S0225P/HRS_0225P-0003.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—in general, 
§226-6 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0006.htm
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—informa-
tion industry, §226-10.5 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0010_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—potential 
growth and innovative activities, §226-10 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0010.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advancement—health, §226-20 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0020.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy-- agricul-
ture, §226-7 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0007 .htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – 
energy, §226-18 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0018.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Renewable portfolio standards, §269-92 
(2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0092.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, University of Hawai‘i; net-zero energy goal, 
§304A-119 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0304A/HRS_0304A-0119.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Sustainable Schools Initiative, §302A-1510 
(2016).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0302A/HRS_0302A-1510.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Affordable Housing, §226-106 (2017). https:/ /
www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0106.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i Water Plan, §174C-31 (g) (6) (2017).  
https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0174C/HRS_0174C-0031.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural 
advancement—housing, §226-19  (2017). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0019.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target, §225P-5 
(2018).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol04_ch0201-0257/HRS0225P/HRS_0225P-0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy retrofit and performance contracting for 
public utilities, §36-41 (2019). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol01_ch0001-0042f/HRS0036/HRS_0036-0041.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Coal power purchase agreements; prohibited, 
§269-48 (2020).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0048.htmHawai‘i Revised Statutes, Office of planning, establishment; responsibili-ties, §225M-2 (2020).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0225M/HRS_0225M-0002.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Renewable energy technologies; income tax 
credit §235-12.5 (2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0235/HRS_0235-0012_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Use of coal for electricity generation, §342B-36 
(2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342B/HRS_0342B-0036.htm  
Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women. (2020). Building 
Bridges Not Walking on Backs: A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for COVID-19. https:/ /humanservices.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-loads/2020/04/4.13.20-Final-Cover-D2-Feminist-Economic-Recov-ery-D1.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2005, July 1). Act 151 HB1342 
HD2 SD1 CD1, A bill for an Act Relating to State Planning. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/splsession2005/bills/sb1592_cd1_.htm 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2011, June 2). Act 8 HB1592 
HD1 SD2 CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Telecommunications. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dcca/broadband/ act-151/Act_151.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2014). SCR No. 69 SD1. Senate 
Concurrent Resolution Endorsing and Supporting the Aloha+ Challenge. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2014/bills/SCR69_SD1_.pdf  
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2017 , June 6). SB559 SD1 HD2 
CD1, An Act Relating to Climate Change. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2017/bills/GM1132_.PDF 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2018, July 5). Act 132 (18) 
SB2567 HD2 SD2 CD1, An Act Relating to Cesspools. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/wastewater/files/2018/09/Act132.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2019, June 26). SB375 SD2 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Agriculture. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2019/bills/GM1253_.PDF
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). SB512 SD2 HD1 CD1, 
A Bill for an Act Relating to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Incentives. 29-Apr-2021. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/SB512_CD1_.htm. 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). HB552 SD2 HD1 CD1, 
A Bill for an Act Relating to the Environment. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB552_CD1_.htm 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
SB767 SD2 HD2, A 
Bill for an Act Relating to the Farm to School Program.  https:/ /www.
capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB767_SD2_.htm Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
SB817 SD2 HD2, A 
Bill for an Act Relating to Agriculture . https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/
session2021/bills/HB817_SD2_.pdfHawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
HB1149 SD2 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Land Use.  https:/ /www.capitol.
hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB1149_CD1_.pdf Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
HB1318 SD1 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Sustainability.  https:/ /www.capitol.
hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB1318_CD1_.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). SCR No. 44 SD1 HD1. 
Senate Concurrent Resolution Declaring a Climate Emergency and Re-questing Statewide Collaboration Toward an Immediate Just Transition and Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate.  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/SCR44_HD1_.pdf 
 112Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA). (2020). Area Health 
Reso urces File s. https: //data.hrsa.gov/topics/health-workforce /ahrf  
Health Resources & Services Administration. (2021). Find a Health Center. 
https: //findahealthcenter.hrsa.gov/ 
Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, Inc. (HIMSS). 
(2018, January 18). Lāna‘i Community Health Center Selected as 2017 HIMSS 
Community Health Davies Award Recipien t. https: //www.himss.org/news/im-
proving-community-health-outcomes-through-telehealth 
Henkin, David. (2017 , April 18). Flows Restored to Waimea River and ‘Grand 
Canyon of the Pacific. ' Earthjustice. https:/ /earthjustice.org/news/press/2017/
flows-restored-to-waimea-river-and-grand-canyon-of-the-pacific  
Hawai‘i News Now (HNN) Staff. (2018, November 8). Stretch of Kūhiō Hwy. 
damaged by floods to remain closed until 2019. Hawai‘i News Now. https: //www. 
hawaiinewsnow.com/2018/11/08/stretch-kuhio-hwy-damaged-by-fl oods-re-
main-closed-till/ 
Hofschneider, Anita. (2021). Hawai‘i Residents from COFA Nations Can Now 
Apply for Medicaid. https: //www.civilbeat.org/2021/01/hawaii-residents-from-
cofa-nations-can-now-apply-for-medicaid/ 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) (2018). Global Warming of 
1.5°C. An IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways, in 
the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, 
sustainable development, and efforts to eradicate poverty . [Masson-Delmotte, 
V., P. Zhai, H.-O. Pörtner, D. Roberts, J. Skea, P.R. Shukla, A. Pir ani, W. Moufou-
ma-Okia, C. Péan, R. Pidcock, S. Connors, J.B.R. Matthews, Y. Chen, X. Zhou, 
M.I. Gomis, E. Lonnoy, T. Maycock, M. Tignor, and T. Water field (eds.)]. https: //
www.ipcc.ch/sr15/  
International Energy Agency (IEA). (2021).  Net Zero by 2050: A Roadmap for 
the Global Energy Sector. https: //iea.blob.core.windows.net /assets/4719e321-
6d3d-41a2-bd6b-461ad2f850a8/NetZeroby2050-ARoadmapfortheGlobalEner-
gySector.pdf  
International Volcanic Health Hazard Network (IVHHN), Hawai‘i State De-
partment of Health, USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, Hawai‘i County Civil 
Defense, National Park Service, County of  Hawai‘i, CSA V, NOAA, and the USDA 
Farm Service Agency. (2021). Hawai‘i Interagency Vog Information Dashboard . 
https: //vog.ivhhn.org/ 
Jackson, C. Kirabo, Johnson, Rucker C., and Persico, Claudia. (2016). The E ffects 
of School Spending on Educational and Economic Outcomes: Evidence from 
School Finance Reforms. The Quarterly Journal of Economics , Volume 131, 
Issue 1, February 2016, Pages 157–218. https: //doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjv036 
KFF . (2019). KFF analysis of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC)'s 2013-2019 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveil-
lance System (BRFSS) . https: //www.k ff.org/other/state-indicator/
percent-of-adults-reporting-not-seeing-a-doctor-in-the-past-12-
months-because-of-cost-by-raceethnicity/?currentTimeframe=0&se-
lectedRows=%7B%22states%22:%7B%22hawaii%22:%7B%7D%7D%7D&sort-
Model=%7B%22colId%22:%22Location%22,%22sort%22:%22asc%22%7D 
KITV Web Staff. (2021, March 12). 12 Hawai‘i health care centers chosen to 
provide vaccines to underserved communities. KIT V. https: //www.kitv.com/
story/43490305/12-hawaii-health-care-centers-chosen-to-provide-vac-
cines-to-underserved-communities 
Knight Foundation. (2010). Soul of the Community 2010 Overall Findings. 
https: //knightfoundation.org/sotc/overall-findings/ 
Ko‘olau Mountains Watershed Partnership. (2021). Our Partners. http: //
koolauwatershed.org/partners/.  
Kotrba, R. (2019, December 14). Pacific Biodiesel and Hamakua Energy 
Sign Contract – Oct. 2019. Biodiesel Magazine. https:/ /www.biodiesel. com/
pacific-biodiesel-and-hamakua-energy-sign-contract-oct-2019/ . 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center. (2020). Annual Report 2019. 
https: //lanaihealth.org/wp-content/uploads/2019-Annual-Report-RE-
VISED-LCHC-With-Covers.pdf 
Leeward Haleakalā Watershed Restoration Partnership. (2018). The Partner-
ship.  https:/ /www.lhwrp.org/whoarewe.Loke, Matthew K. and James Mak. ( 2019). Reducing Food Waste in Ha wai‘i: A 
Primer.  https:/ /gms.ctahr.hawaii.edu/gs/handler/getmedia.ashx-
?moid=65942&dt=3&g=12
Mauna Kea Watershed Alliance. (2021). Our Partners. https:/ /maunakeawater-
shed.org/our-partners/.
McCoy, D., McManus, M.A., Kotubetey, K., Kawelo, A.H., Young, C., D‘Andrea, B., et 
al. (2017). Large-scale climatic effects on traditional Hawaiian fishpond 
aquaculture. PLoS ONE 12(11): e0187951. https:/ /doi.org/10.1371/journal. 
pone.0187951 
Mediation Agreement for the Waimea Watershed Area. (2017 , April 18). https:/ /
dhhl.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/20170418_Agreement.pdf  
Meyers, Talya. (2020, November 10). On a Small Hawaiian Island, Covid-19—
Finally—Rears Its Head. Direct Relief.  https:/ /www.directrelief.org/2020/11/on-
a-small-hawaiian-island-covid-19-finally-rears-its-head/  
Miyashima, Mika. (2017 , December 12). Mayors pledge 100% ground trans-
portation powered by renewable energy by 2045.  KITV . https:/ /www.kitv.com/
story/37053289/mayors-pledge-100-ground-transportation-powered-by-re-
newable-energy-by-2045 
Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. (2021). Lanikeha Community Center. 
https:/ /www.molokaihfa.com/lanikeha-community-center 
National Park Service. (2018). 2018 Eruption and Summit Collapse. https:/ /
www.nps.gov/havo/learn/nature/2018-eruption.htm 
National Women's Law Center. (NWLC) (2021). Hawai‘i.  https:/ /nwlc.org/state/
hawaii/
Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA). (2018). Haumea—Transforming the 
Health of Native Hawaiian Women and Empowering Wahine Well-being.  
https:/ /19of32x2yl33s8o4xza0gf14-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/up-
loads/OHA-Womens-Health-Executive-Summary-1.pdf
‘Ōlelo No‘eau: Hawaiian Proverbs & Poetical Sayings. (1983). Collected, trans-
lated, and annotated by Mary Kawena Pukui, Bishop Museum Press, Honolulu, 
Hawai‘i. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2017). Hawaii's Largest Liquid Biofuel Crop Farm. 20 April 
2017. https:/ /www.biodiesel.com/hawaiis-largest-biofuel-crop/. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2019a). About Pacific Biodiesel. https:/ /www.biodiesel.com/
about-us/. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2019b). Pacific Biodiesel Logistics. https:/ /www.biodiesel. com/
logistics/. 
Pacific Business News (2019c). Pacific Biodiesel to supply Hamakua plant with 
biodiesel. https:/ /www.bizjournals.com/pacific/news/2019/11/01/pacific-bio-
diesel-to-supply-hamakua-plant-with.html 
Pacific Biodiesel (2021). Pacific Biodiesel Offers Insight for Hawaii's Energy 
Future. Pacific Biodiesel Quarterly News and Updates, February 2021. https:/ /
myemail.constantcontact.com/News-and-Updates-from-Pacific-Biodiesel.  html?
soid=1102919617057&aid=vT03_4xqRl8. 
Pactol, Catherine Cluett (2018). Lanikeha Re-Opens with a Facelift. The Moloka‘i 
Dispatch, 25 July 2018. https:/ /themolokaidispatch.com/lanikeha-re-opens-with-
a-facelift/ 
Penniman, T. (2018). Flower Power, Maui Nō Ka ‘Oi Magazine. https:/ /www. 
mauimagazine.net/flower-power/. 
Pruitt, A. S., Zhang, W ., Wu, Y., Bird, O., Nakamura, B. & Barile, J. P. (2021). 
Addressing Hunger & Food Insecurity among Hawai‘i's Families. Prepared for the 
College of Social Sciences, UH Mānoa and First Insurance Company of Hawai‘i, 
Honolulu, H.I. https:/ /drive.google.com/file/d/1e3MkhACuaFYxULdsf-
wx56Jp1psCMAm4t/view
Restaurants for Renewables. (n.d.). Restaurants 4 Renewables: From Cooking Oil 
to Clean Energy. https:/ /restaurants4renewables.com/
Selmants, P.C., Giardina, C.P., Jacobi, J.D., and Zhu, Zhiliang (eds.). (2017). 
Baseline and projected future carbon storage and carbon fluxes in ecosystems of 
Hawai‘i: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1834. https:/ /doi. org/10.3133/
pp1834
Serota, Nathan. (2020, August 28). Research chronicles improved conditions at 
Hanauma Bay during closure. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/cms-csd-menu/site-csd-
sitearticles/1305-site-csd-news-2020-cat/39289-08-28-20-research-chronicles-
improved-conditions-at-hanauma-bay-during-closure.html  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    113
REFERENCES 
Severino, Sarah J.L., Rodgers, Ku‘ulei S., Stender, Yuko, and Stefanak, 
Mathew. (2020). Hanauma Bay Biological Carrying Capacity Survey: 2019-
20 2nd Annual Report. Prepared for the City and County of Honolulu and 
the Hawai‘i Board of Land and Natural Resources. http: //www.honolulu.gov/
rep/site/dpr/hanaumabay_docs/Hanauma_Bay_Carrying_Capacity_Re-
port_August_2020.pdf  
Sproat, D. Kapua‘ala. (2009). Ola I Ka Wai: A Legal Primer for Water Use 
and Management in Hawai‘i. Center for Excellence in Native Hawaiian Law. 
University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa. https: //www.law.hawaii.edu/sites/www.law.  
ha
waii.edu/files/content/Programs%2CClinics%2CInstitutes/Ola%20i%20  
ka%20Wai%20Final.pdf 
Star-Advertiser Sta ff. (2020, December 2). Hanauma Bay reopens following 
8-month COVID-19 closure. Star Advertiser. https: //www.staradvertiser. 
com/2020/12/02/breaking-news/hanauma-bay-reopens-following-8-
month-covid-19-closure/
State Foundation on Culture and the Arts (SFCA). (2000). Moloka‘i in 
History, A Guide to the Resources. Strazar, M.D. (ed.). http: //sfca.hawaii.gov/
wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Molokai2000_SFCA1.pdf
State of Hawai‘i. (2019). Housing Is Healthcare. https: //ltgov.hawaii.gov/
wp-content/uploads/2019/10/HIH_Brochure_Final_Revised.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission (HCRC). (2020). 2019-2020 An-
nual Report. https: //labor.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/HCRC-
2019-2020-Annual-Report.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Clean Energy Initiative. (2020). About the Hawai‘i 
Clean Energy Initiative. ht tp://www.Hawai ‘ icleanenergyinitiative.org/
about-the-Hawai‘i-clean-energy-initiative/ 
State of Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission. 
(2017). Hawai‘i Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report. Pre-
pared by the State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, 
Office of Conservation and Coastal Lands. https: //climateadaptation.hawaii. 
gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/SLR-Report_Dec201 7.pdf 
Sta
te of Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commis-
sion. (2021). Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change 
in Hawai‘i Working Paper. https: //climate.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-
loads/2021/04/CRHI-Working-Paper-V5.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management (CWRM), 
Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2013). Hawai‘i Water Conser-
vation Plan. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/hwcp2013.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management, Department 
of Land and Natural Resources. (2019). Hawai‘i Water Plan: Water Resource 
Protection Plan, 2019 Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/
wrpp2019update/WRPP_ALL_20190 7.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management r, Depart-
ment of Land and Natural Resources. (2020). State Water Projects Plan 
Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/swpp2020.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management, Department 
of Land and Natural Resources. (2021). Hawai‘i Water Plan.  https: //dlnr.  
hawaii.gov/cwrm/planning/hiwaterplan/ 
State of Hawai‘i Constitution. https: //lrb.hawaii.gov/constitution  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2016). Hawai‘i Interagency 
Biosecurity Plan: 2017-202 7. https: / /hdoa.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-
loads/2016/09/Hawaii-Interagency-Biosecurity-Plan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2019a). Agricultural Water Use 
and Development Plan Update. https: / /files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/
awudp2019update/AWUDP_2019.pdf  State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2019b). Report on the 
Strategic Plan to Double Local Food Production and Exports by 2030. 
https:/ /hdoa.  hawaii.gov/blog/main/reports-submitted-for-legislative-
session-2019/
at-tachment/doa-act-151-slh-2019-strategic-plan-
report-2019/
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism (DBEDT). (1998). Hawai‘i Climate Change Action Plan.  https:/ /plan-
ning.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/HawaiiActionPlan1998.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2016). Analyses and Proposal of Hawaii Amendments to the 2015 
International Energy Conservation Code. https:/ /energy.hawaii.gov/wp-
con-tent/uploads/2016/07/Analyses-and-Proposal-of-Amendments.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2019). Self-Sufficiency Income Standard Estimates for Hawai‘i 
2018. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/reports/self-sufficiency/
self-sufficiency_2018.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development & Tour-
ism. (2020a). County Social, Business and Economic Trends in Hawai‘i: 
1990 – 2019.  https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/data_reports/coun-
ty_report/county-trends-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism. (2020b). 2019 State of Hawai‘i Data Book. Section 24. https:/ /files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/databook/db2019/section24.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism. (2020c).  Hawai‘i's Economic Structure: An Analysis Using Industry 
Level Gross Domestic Product Data.  https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/economic/
files/2020/04/GDP_Report_Final_April2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2021a). Brain Drain: Characteristics of Hawai‘i-Born Adults on 
the U.S. Mainland. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/reports/Brain_ 
Drain_Hawaii_Born_Population.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2021b).  Phase III Hawai‘i Defense Economy (HDE) Action Plan . 
https:/ /defenseeconomy.hawaii.gov/wordpress/wp-content/up-
loads/2021/03/HDE_ActionPlan_12-11-2020.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation (HHFDC). 
(2017). The Hawai‘i State Plan: Housing Functional Plan.  https:/ /dbedt. 
hawaii.gov/hhfdc/files/2017/03/Housing_2017 .pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation. (2019). 
Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study, 2019. https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/hhfdc/
files/2020/01/FINAL-State_Hawaii-Housing-Planning-Study.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation. (2020).  
Consolidated Plan for Program Years 2020 through 2024: Annual Action 
Plan for Program Year 2020.  https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/hhfdc/
files/2020/09/ FINAL_5YR-CONPLAN-AAP_20200716.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education (DOE). (2019). Hawai‘i Department 
of Education Data Book: 2018 . https:/ /www.hawaiipublicschools.org/Re-
ports/2018HIDOEDatabook.pdf
State 
of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020a). 2030 Promise Plan.  
http:/ /www.hawaiipublicschools.org/DOE%20Forms/Advancing%20Edu-
cation/2030PromisePlan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020b).  ESSA Report Every 
Student Succeeds Act School Year 2018-19. https:/ /arch-prod-re-
ports-repository.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/essa/2019/999ESSARpt.pdf
 114State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020c). Hawai‘i Literacy Plan. 
https: //www.hawaiip20.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Hawaii-State-Liter-
acy-Plan_WEB.pdf   
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (n.d.). Wellness Guidelines. https: //
www.hawaiipublicschools.org/TeachingAndLearning/HealthAndNutrition/
WellnessGuidelines/Pages/home.aspx
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education and Board of Education (DOE-BOE). 
(2016).  Strategic Plan: 2017-2020.  https: //www.hawaiipublicschools.org/
VisionForSuccess/AdvancingEducation/StrategicPlan/Pages/home.aspx
State of Hawai‘i Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. (2011). Ho‘omaluō Ener-
gy Policy. https: //dhhl.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/DHHL-Ener-
gy-Policy.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. (2017). Historic Settle-
ment Reached in West Kaua‘i Waimea River Water Dispute . http: //dhhl.hawaii. 
gov/2017/05/05/historic-settlement-reached-in-west-kauai-waimea-river-
water-dispute/  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2013).  Hawai‘i Physical Activity and 
Nutrition Plan: 2013-2020. https: //health.hawaii.gov/physical-activity-nutri-
tion/files/2013/08/Hawaii-PAN-Plan-2013-2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2014). Hawai‘i Coordinated Chronic 
Disease Framework . https: //health.hawaii.gov/chronic-disease/files/2014/09/
CDFrameworkLR.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2016). Tobacco Control Strategic Plan, 
2016–2020. Honolulu, HI: Chronic Disease Prevention & Health Promotion 
Division, Tobacco Prevention and Education Program. https: //health.hawaii. 
gov/chronic-disease/files/2019/12/TPC-Strategic-Plan.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2017). Hawai‘i Sexual and Gender 
Minority Health Report . https: //health.hawaii.gov/surveillance/files/2017/05/
HawaiiSexualandGenderMinorityHealthReport.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2018). Good Food for All . https: //health. 
hawaii.gov/chronic-disease/files/2018/03/gffa-web.pdf   
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019a). Hawai‘i Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Report for 2016.  https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
files/2019/12/2016-Inventory_Final-Report_December2019-1.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019b). Water Quality Plan. Hawai‘i 
Department of Health. https: //health.Hawaii.gov/water/files/2019/03/FI-
NAL-DOH-Water-Quality-Plan-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019c). Water Reuse Task Force Report 
to the Thirtieth Legislatur e. https: //www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2019/bills/
DC246_.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2020). Healthy Hawai‘i 2020 – A Com-
munity Health Plan (State Health Improvement Plan). https: //health.hawaii.  
gov/opppd/ship/ 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2021a). Hawai‘i Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Report for 2017. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
files/2021/04/2017-Inventory_Final-Report_April-2021.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2021b). Clean Air Branch. 5 March 
2021. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Clean Water Branch. (2021c). Hawai‘i 
Nonpoint Source Management Plan: 2021-202 5. https: //health.hawaii.gov/
cwb/fi les/2021/02/2021-02-12-NPS-Plan-Public-Comment-Draft.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Office of Solid Waste Management 
(DOH-OSWM). (2020). Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report to 
the Thirty-First Legislatur e. https: //health.hawaii.gov/shwb/files/2021/01/
Final-PSRWG-Report-to-Leg.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Office of Solid Waste Management. 
(2021). Amended Annual Report to the Thirty-First Legislature State of Hawai‘i 
2021.  https: //health.hawaii.gov/shwb/files/2021/03/2021-OSWM-Annual-Re-
port-Amended.pdf State of Hawai‘i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. (2010). Ha -
wai‘i's Green Workforce: A Baseline Assessment. https: //dlir.state.hi.us/labor/
lmi/pdf/HawaiisGreenWorkforce_BaselineAssessment.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. (2021). Hawai‘i 
Green Jobs Initiative . https: //greenjobshawaii.hirenethawaii.com/vosnet/De-
fault.aspx 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2011). The Rain 
Follows the Forest: A Plan to Replenish Hawai‘i's Source of Water. https: //
dlnr.hawaii.gov/rain/files/2014/02/The-Rain-Follows-the-Forest.pdf#:~:-
text=The%20Rain%20Follows%20the%20Forest%20is%20the%20Depart-
ment%E2%80%99s,sources.%20The%20forests%20and%20their%20abili-
ty%20to%20capture
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2015). Hawai‘i's 
State Wildlife Action Plan . https: //dlnr.hawaii.gov/wildlife/fi les/2020/07/HI-
SWAP-2015-FINAL.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2017). Coral Bleaching Recovery Plan. Prepared by the University 
of Hawai‘i Social Science Research Institute. https: //dlnr.hawaii.gov/reefre-
sponse/files/2016/09/CoralBleachingRecoveryPlan_final_newDARlogo.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2020a).Coral Reef Strategy 2030. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. gov/
coralreefs/files/2020/08/Hawaii-Coral-Reef-Strategy-2030-Final.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2020b).Holomua: Marine 30x30.  https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/
files/2020/12/HolomuaMarine30x30_Roadmap_web.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of For-
estry and Wildlife. (2008). Strategic Plan for Hawai‘i's Natural Area Reserves 
System. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/ecosystems/files/2013/09/Strategic-Plan-
v2-4.  pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Forest-
ry and Wildlife. (2010). Hawai‘i Statewide Assessment of Forest Conditions and 
Trends: 2010. An Assessment of the State of Our ‘Aina.  https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/
forestry/files/2013/09/SWARS-Entire-Assessment-and-Strategy.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of For-
estry and Wildlife. (2016). Hawai‘i Forest Action Plan 2016. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. 
gov/forestry/files/2013/09/Hawaii-Forest-Action-Plan-2016-FINAL.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State 
Parks. (2018). Hā‘ena State Park Master Plan: Final Report. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. 
gov/dsp/files/2018/03/Haena-MP-FINAL.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation (HDOT), Airports Division and 
KYA Sustainability Studio. (2016). SustainableHNL Sustainable Management 
Plan . https:/ /airports.hawaii.gov/hnl/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2016/09/
sHNL-Sustainable-Management-Plan-20160809-PRINT.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Highways Division. (2019). 
Statewide Coastal Highway Program Report. https:/ /hidot.hawaii.gov/high-
ways/files/2019/09/State-of-Hawaii-Statewide-Coastal-Highway-Program-
Report_Final_2019.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Highways Division. (2021). 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action Plan.  https:/ /assets.adobe.com/
public/452ba422-871a-4549-5c95-184cfe2e6aec
State of Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency (HIEMA). (2018a). State 
of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation Plan. https:/ /dod.hawaii.gov/hiema/
files/2020/06/2018-State-HI-HMP-Update-100218.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency. (2018b, August 23). About 
Hurricane Evacuation Shelters in Hawai‘i. https:/ /dod.hawaii.gov/hiema/
about-hurricane-evacuation-shelters-in-hawaii/ 
State of Hawai‘i Office of the Auditor. (2008). Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan . https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/sustainability/
hawaii_2050_plan_final.pdf  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    115
REFERENCES 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of the Auditor. (2018). Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan – Ten Year Measurement Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov /auditor/Re-
ports/2018/2018H2050.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning. (2012). Increased Food Security 
and Self-Sufficiency Strategy. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
INCREASED_FOOD_SECURITY_AND_FOOD_SELF_SUFFICIENCY_ 
STRATEGY.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning. (2016).  Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehen-
sive Economic Development Strategy . https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
CEDS_2016_final.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of Planning. (2019). Feasibility and Implications of 
Establishing a Carbon Offset Program for the State of Hawai‘i . https: //files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/sustainability/feasibility_and_implications_of_estab-
lishing_a_carbon_o ffset_program_for_the_state_of_hawaii_finalweb.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of Planning (2019b). Feasibility and Implications 
of Managed Retreat Strategies for Vulnerable Coastal Areas in Hawai‘i.  
https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp /assessing_the_feasibility_and_ 
implications_of_managed_retreat_strategies_for_vulnerable_coastal_ar-
eas_in_hawaii.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning (2020). The Hawai‘i Ocean Resources 
Management Plan . https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp/
ormp_update_re-ports/2020_ormp_final.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning (2021). Hawai‘i Interagency Council for 
Transit-Oriented Development.  http:/ /planning.hawaii.gov/lud/state-tod/ 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and DBEDT. (2018). Affordable Rental 
Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
AffordableRentalHousingReport_10YearPlan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and DBEDT. (2020). State Transit-
Oriented Development (TOD) Planning and Implementation Project for the 
Island of O‘ahu. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/
lud/20200811_StateTOD-ProjectReport/State-TOD-PIP-
Proj_WebReport_202007 .pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Devel-
opment Corporation. (2018). Strategic Plan for Transit-Oriented Devel-
opment. Hawaii Interagency Council for Transit-Oriented Development.  
https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/lud/State-TOD-Strategic-
Plan_Dec-2017-Rev-Aug-2018_rev20190715_secured.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i State Energy Office. (2020).  Hawai‘i Energy Facts & 
Figures. https:/ /energy.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/HSEO_  
FactsAndFigures-2020.pdf
Hawai‘i State Energy Office (2021). 2020 Annual Report. https:/ /energy. 
hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/HSEO_2020_Annual_Report.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Tourism Authority (HTA). (2020a, January 29). Hawai‘i 
Visitor Statistics Released for 2019. https:/ /www.hawaiitourismauthority. 
org/media/4166/2020-01-29-hawaii-visitor-statistics-released-for-decem-
ber-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. (2020b). Strategic Plan: 2020-
2025.  https:/ /www.hawaiitourismauthority.org/media/4286/hta-strate-
gic-plan-2020-2025.pdf
Truesdale, J. (2021, March 1). This Program Helped Big Island Farmers and 
Families. Now It's Out of Cash, Civil Beat. https:/ /www.civilbeat.
org/2021/03/this-program-helped-big-island-farmers-and-families-now-
its-out-of-cash/. University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program and State of Hawai‘i 
Department of Land and Natural Resources and Office of Planning. (2020). 
Guidance for Addressing Sea Level Rise in Community Planning in Hawai‘i. 
Prepared with funding from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration Office for Coastal Management. https:/ /climate.hawaii.gov/wp-con-
tent/uploads/2020/10/Item-3-I-a-Guidance-for-Addressing-SLR-in-Com-
munity-Planning-in-HI-2.pdf 
University of Hawai‘i. (2015).  Hawai‘i Innovation Initiative.  https:/ /
www.hawaii.edu/innovation/ 
University of Hawai‘i. (2018). University of Hawai‘i Strategic Di-
rections 2015-2021. http:/ /blog.hawaii.edu/strategicdirections/
files/2018/10/SD2.0_Revisions_2018_Update-2.pdf  
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020, September 8). UH Mānoa work to 
tackle racism takes national spotlight. https:/ /www.Hawai‘i.edu/
news/2020/09/08/trht-at-pullias-lecture/
United Nations. (2021). 
The Sustainable Development Agenda. https:/ /
www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/development-agenda/
United Nations. (2021). 
Decade of Action. https:/ /www.un.org/sustain-
abledevelopment/decade-of-action/
United Nations Environment Programme. (2021).  International Good 
Practice Principles for Sustainable Infrastructure. https:/ /
wedocs.unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/34853/GPSI.pdf 
United States Geological Survey. (USGS) Hawaiian Volcano Observatory. 
(2021). Frequently Asked Questions About Volcanic Smog (vog). https:/ /
www.usgs.gov/observatories/hawaiian-volcano-observatory/frequently-
asked-questions-about-volcanic-smog-vog 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020a, July 19).  Leeward CC becomes UH's 
first net-zero campus. https:/ /www.hawaii.edu/news/2020/07/19/lee-
ward-first-uh-net-zero-campus/
 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020b, September 8).  UH Mānoa work 
to tackle racism takes national spotlight. https:/ /www.Hawaii.edu/
news/2020/09/08/trht-at-pullias-lecture/
University of Hawai‘i News. (2021, January 24).  UH Maui College 
achieves net-zero goal. https:/ /www.hawaii.edu/news/2021/01/24/uh-
maui-college-achieves-net-zero-goal/ 
USGCRP. (2018). Impacts, Risks, and Adaptation in the United States: 
Fourth National Climate Assessment, Volume II, Chapter 27: Hawai‘i and 
U.S.-Affiliated Pacific Islands [Reidmiller, D.R., C. W . Avery, D.R. Easterling, 
K.E. Kunkel, K.L.M. Lewis, T.K. Maycock, and B.C. Stewart (eds.)].  https:/ /
nca2018.globalchange.gov/chapter/front-matter-about/  
U.S. Census Bureau. (2011).  American Fact Finder: Profile of General 
Population and Housing Characteristics: 2010. 2010 Demographic 
Profile Data for Census Tract 316.01, Maui County, Hawai‘i.  https:/ /files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/census/Census_2010/demographic/demo_profile_ct_  
NI/2010dp_ct316.01.pdf 
U.S. Census Bureau. (2019a).  American Community Survey 
5-year estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for 
East Molokai CCD, Maui County, HI. http:/ /censusreporter.org/pro-
files/06000US1500990090-east-molokai-ccd-maui-county-hi/  
U.S. Census Bureau. (2019b). American Community Survey 
5-year estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for 
Kalawao CCD, Kalawao County, HI  http:/ /censusreporter.org/pro-
files/06000US1500590990-kalawao-ccd-kalawao-county-hi/
 116U.S. Census Bureau. (2019c). American Community Survey 5-year 
estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for West Moloka‘i CCD, 
Maui County, HI. http:/ /censusreporter.org/profiles/06000US1500993960-
west- molokai-ccd-maui-county-hi/ 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. (2017a). 
Census of Agriculture County Profile: 
Hawai‘i County, Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCen-
sus/2017/Online_Resources/County_Profiles/Hawaii/cp15001.pdf . 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. (2017b). Census of Agriculture State Profile: 
Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCensus/2017/Online_Re-
sources/County_Profiles/Hawaii/cp99015.pdf
.
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
Energy. (n.d.). Biodiesel Benefits and Considerations. Alternative Fuels Data 
Center. https:/ /afdc.energy.gov/fuels/biodiesel_benefits.html. 
U.S. Water Alliance. (2016). One Water Roadmap: The Sustainable Management 
of Life's Most Essential Resource. http:/ /uswateralliance.org/sites/uswateralli-
ance.org/files/publications/Roadmap%20FINAL.pdf 
Velasquez-Manoff, Moises. (2010, June 28). Want to Be Less Racist? Move to 
Hawai‘i. New York Times. https:/ /www.nytimes.com/2019/06/28/opinion/
sunday/racism-hawaii.html  
Wu, Nina. (2020, October 27). Lanai stay-at-home order begins today as officials 
try to contain outbreak. Star Advertiser. https:/ /www.staradvertiser. 
com/2020/10/27/hawaii-news/lanai-stay-at-home-order-begins-today-as-offi-
cials-try-to-contain-outbreak/ 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
Charting
 a Cou rse for the Decade of Action (2020–2030) 
June 2021
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Āina i ka Pono  
The Life
 of the Land is Perp etuated in Righteousness  
A 
publication of the Hawai‘i State Office of Planning, pursuant to Act 146, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019.

--- Text from PDF (https://hawaii2050.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/FINAL-Hawaii-2050-Sustainability-Plan-web-1.pdf) ---
Hawai‘i 2050
SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)
ABOUT THE VISUAL DESIGN,  by Stephanie Chang Design Ink: 
Ancestral wisdom continues to be a source of inspiration throughout. 
Our ancient water system, built and cultivated throughout ahupua‘a, was in graceful alignment with natural weather systems and human need; its design represents whole system health, everything in relationship to each other, kuleana. The Plan’s key image (seen here on this page) served as the root for resulting graphic elements which support and amplify the plan’s incredible content and ultimately, inspiration for your solutions. The Plan’s color system was inspired by artist Bernice Akamine’s brilliant color wheel, created using native plants to create Na- Waiho‘olu‘u Hawai‘i, colors that our kanaka
ku-puna grew, gathered, created, used, viewed, and enjoyed. Mahalo to
Kamaka‘aina Siepp of The Color Garden for sharing this ‘ike with me. Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020–2030)  
June 2021
A publication of the Hawai‘i State Office of  Planning, purs uant 
to Act 146, Session Laws of Ha wai‘i 2019.
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Āina i ka Pono  
The Life of the Land is Perpetuated in Righteousness  
This document was printed on recycled paper containing 
30% post-consumer recycled fiber.9 
10 
12 
18 
20 
22
26
30
34
38
42
46
50
54
58
62
66
70
74
80
84
88
92 
96
98
100
102
103
104
105
106
108
109TABLE OF CONTENTS 
E kuahui like i ka hana
Executive Summ ary
Hawai‘i's Sustainability and Climate Journey
The Update Pro cess for the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Pla n
Recommitting t o a Sustainable F uture
Hawai‘i's Comm itment to the Sustainable De velopment Goa ls (SDGs)  
Sustainable Development Goal 1 : No Poverty 
Sustainable Development Goal 2 : Zero Hunger 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 3: Good Health  and Well-Being  
Sustainable Development Goal 4: Quality Education 
Sustainable Development Goal 5: Gender Equa lity 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 6: Clean Wate r and Sanitation 
Sustainable Deve lopment Goal 7: Affordable a nd Clean Energy 
Sustainable Development Goal 8: Decent Work and  Economic Growt h 
Sustainable Development Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and  Infrastructure 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 0: Reduce Ine qualities 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 1: Sustainab le Cities and Communities 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 2: Responsib le Consumption and Production 
Sustainable Development Goal 1 3: Climate Action 
Sustainable Development Goal 14: Life Below Water 
Sustainable Development Goal 15: Life on La nd 
Sustainable Development Goal 16: Peace, Justic e and Strong Institutions 
Sustainable Development Goal 17: Partnerships
2021–2030 Recom mended Actions
Promote a Sustainable Economi c Recovery 
Reduce Greenho use Gas Emissions 
Improve Climate Resilience 
Advance Sustainable Communiti es 
Advance Equity  
Institutionalize Sustainabili ty Throughou t Government 
Preserve the Natural Environme nt 
Perpetuate Traditional Ecolo gical Knowledge and Values 
‘A‘ohe hana nui ke alu ‘ia
Refe rences 110
Hawai'i 2050 Sus
tainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    1
MESSAGE FROM THE GOVERNOR 
Recognizing the Publication, Revision, and Decennial Update of the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability  
Plan, Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030)
Sustainability is not simply a goal; it is a commitment and a responsibility for all of us throughout the State of 
Ha
wai‘i. We are all connected to Hawai‘i's sustainable fu ture in everything that we do — connected as a family, connected 
with our communities, and connect
ed to our ‘āina.  Knowing this, we must protect Hawai‘i for our children and for their 
future. We, as a state, must continue to actively work on the sustainable development and climate adaptation of our islands 
without compromising the abilit
y of future generations of Hawai‘i to thrive. 
This decennial update of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan serves as our State's climate and sustainability strategic 
action plan moving forward. This update will guide the crucial 2020-2030 Decade of Action which the United Nations 
declared to accelerate sustainable solutions for our biggest challenges. Hawai‘i's economic recovery from the COVID-19 
global pandemic, as r
ecommended by this updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, must be central to our shared 
responsibility and climate resilience efforts over this Decade of Action. Finally, this plan furthers my Sustainable Hawai‘i 
Initia
tives – which aim to protect Hawai‘i's watersheds and nearshore waters; prevent, detect and control invasive species; 
double local food production; and reach 100 percent renewable energy use in the electricity sector by the year 2045.
I applaud the staff of the State of Hawai‘i's Statewide Sustainability Program within the State's Office of Planning and all 
State departments and staff who participated in this plan and recognize our collective commitment to coordinate, develop, 
and promote policies and programs that assist in meeting Hawai‘i's statewide sustainability and climate policies and goals. 
M
ahalo for working diligently to develop this living document. 
I remain commit
ted to statewide sustainability and climate adaptation and will continue to work with the 
Legislature, counties, private sector and the community to achieve our sustainability and climate resiliency 
go
als. 
Together, we can do great things.
With warmest regards,
David Y. Ige  
Governor
State of Hawai‘i
 2�J� ALOHA! 
It is our pleasure to share this important document, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: 
Charting a Course for the Decade of Action (2020-2030) wit h you. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning has the unique charge to work collaboratively with state and 
county agencies and facilitate a collective effort to achie ve shared statewide sustainability and climate 
resilience goals for Hawai‘i.  
We are honored to deliver the update of the Hawai‘i 20 50 Sustainability Plan, to serve as our State's climate 
and sustainability strategic action plan moving forward , pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65.  
We are committed to coordinating Hawai‘i's statewide sustainability and climate resilience 
goals with the recent establishment of the first Statewide Sustainability Program in 2020, 
pursuant to
 Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8.   
The United Nations declared this important decade as th e “Decade of Action,” to accelerate 
sustainable solutions for our biggest challenges worldwide – ranging from poverty and gender 
inequities to climate change, inequality and closing th e finance gap.  In Hawai‘i, we are witnessing the 
effects of climate change right in front of us: we feel the rising temperatures; we experience increased 
severe storms and hazardous flooding throughout our islan ds; we see our coastlines eroding and our 
shoreline inundated; and we encounter the effects of dro ught and increased wildfires in our communities.  
Ha wa i‘i's climate is changing, and we must act together to incorporate climate resilience and 
sustainable development in our everyday lives. 
This Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan was developed by conducting an extensive statewide public 
engagement, consistent with a community-driven approach , in addition to collaborating with state and 
county stakeholder agencies to create this plan.  As a living document, the  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
has evolved throughout the decades. It is a shared visi on that this plan will bring a renewed focus on the 
implementation of Hawai‘i's sustainable development and climate resilience. 
We want to express our sincere thanks to the members of th e public who participated and contributed their 
time to share personal feedback.  We thank the many p rivate and non-governmental partners who 
participated in this update and shared their professional  challenges, success stories, and vision for an 
equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i.  We share our deep mahalo to the many state and county 
agencies and government officials who work daily advancing Ha wai‘i's environmental, social, and economic 
sustainability and climate resilience, and have contributed their intentions such that the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan might facilitate their role to addre ss gaps, and implement actionable solutions to these 
challenges.
Th e State of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning and the Statewid e Sustainability Program will continue 
to work actively on the sustainable development and climate  adaptation of the state to meet the 
needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations of Hawai‘i to meet 
their own needs. 
Mary Alice Evans  
Director
Office of PlanningDanielle M. M. Bass
State Sustainability CoordinatorStatewide Sustainability Program
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    3
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
E ala! E alu!  E kuilima! 
The Office of Planning would like to ack nowl edge the m any individuals, organizations, and state  and c ounty agencies 
that  contributed to the development of th is plan.   
Mahalo to the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan proj ect te am who supported the development of this 
plan, led by Danielle Bass with support from Britt aney Key of the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning 's Statewide 
Sust aina bility Program, the ICF team lead by Susan A sam  and Leslie Chinery with support from Brad Hurley, 
Jam ie Liu, Mollie Carroll, Samantha Heits ch, Grace Tam ble,  and Eliza Puritz. Mahalo to Neil Hannahs for 
providing support throughout this project. Mahal o to Jonat han  Scheuer for serving as lead facilitator thr ough t he 
public engagement sessions and providing te chnical s upport throughout this project. Mahalo to Ste phanie  Chan g 
for the graphic design and layout of this pl an.  
Ma halo to the state and county agencies who pr ovide d rev iew, inputs, and other participation in 
development of the plan, including: 
State of Hawai‘i Office of the Governor
Office of the Lieutenant GovernorMembers of the Hawai‘i State LegislatureDepartment of Accounting and General ServicesState Procurement OfficeDepartment of AgricultureAgribusiness Development CorporationDepartment of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT)DBEDT – Business Development and Support DivisionDBEDT – Creative Industries Division DBEDT – Hawai‘i Broadband InitiativeDBEDT – Research and Economic Analysis DivisionHawai‘i Community Development AuthorityHawai‘i Housing Finance and Development CorporationHawai‘i State Energy OfficeHawai‘i Technology Development CorporationHawai‘i Tourism AuthorityLand Use CommissionNatural Energy Laboratory of Hawai‘i AuthorityState of Hawai‘i Office of Planning – Coastal Zone Management ProgramState of Hawai‘i Office of Planning – Land Use DivisionPublic Utilities CommissionHawai‘i Emergency Management AgencyState Disaster Recovery CoordinatorState of Hawai‘i Office of Homeland SecurityDepartment of EducationDepartment of Hawaiian Home LandsDepartment of Health (DOH)DOH – Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion DivisionDOH – Clean Air Branch DOH – Clean Water BranchDOH – Hazard Evaluation and Emergency Response OfficeDOH – Primary Prevention BranchDOH – Safe Drinking Water BranchDOH – Solid and Hazardous Waste BranchDOH – Wastewater BranchDepartment of Human ServicesHawai‘i Public Housing AuthorityState Homelessness CoordinatorState Commission on the Status of WomenDepartment of Labor and Industrial Relations Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR)Commission on Water Resource ManagementDLNR – Division of Aquatic Resources DLNR – Engineering DivisionDLNR – Division of Forestry and WildlifeDLNR – Land DivisionDLNR – Division of State ParksHawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation CommissionHawai‘i Invasive Species CouncilKaho‘olawe Island Reserve CommissionDLNR – Office of Conservation and Coastal LandsDepartment of TransportationO‘ahu Metropolitan Planning Organization University of Hawai‘iUH – School of Ocean and Earth Science and TechnologyCity and County of Honolulu Office of the MayorMembers of the Honolulu City CouncilCity and County of Honolulu – Board of Water SupplyCity and County of Honolulu – Department of Environmental ServicesCity and County of Honolulu – Department of Planning and  
   PermittingCity and County of Honolulu – Office of Climate Change,  
   Sustainability, and Resilience City and County of Honolulu – Office of Economic RevitalizationCounty of Hawai‘i Office of the MayorMembers of the Hawai‘i County CouncilCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of PlanningCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of Research and DevelopmentCounty of Hawai‘i – Department of Environmental ManagementCounty of Kaua‘i Office of the MayorMembers of the Kaua‘i County CouncilCounty of Kaua‘i – Department of Planning County of Kaua‘i – Department of Public WorksCounty of Kaua‘i – Kaua‘i Emergency Management AgencyCounty of Kaua‘i – Office of Economic DevelopmentCounty of Maui Office of the Mayor Members of the Maui County CouncilCounty of Maui – Department of Environmental Management County of Maui – Department of Planning County of Maui – Department of Water Supply County of Maui – Office of Climate Action, Sustainability, and  
    Resilience 
 4Mahalo to all the individuals and organizations that helped develop the “Sustaining Hawai‘i” series, 
showcasing sustainability and resilience in action across the state, including: 
Mahalo to many people who lent their hand s in many different ways, including participants i n the 
virtual public information sharing sessions including the publi c and community  members from  the islands of 
Hawai‘i, Maui, Molokai,  Lāna‘i, Kaho‘o lawe, O‘ahu, and Kaua‘i, State a nd County ag encies as previously acknowle dged, and 
participants from the followi ng organizat ions, includin g: 
350 Hawai‘i
AECOMAES Hawai‘iAHLAloha HarvestAloha United WayArizona State UniversityBank of Hawai‘iBlue Zones Project Hawai‘iBuilding Industry Association of Hawai‘i Building Owners and Managers Association  
    of Hawai‘iChamber of Commerce Hawai‘iChaminade University of Honolulu Conservation Council for Hawai‘iConservation International Hawai‘iEarth Justice Mid-Pacific Regional OfficeEast West CenterElemental ExceleratorEnvironmental Caucus of Hawai‘iFaith Action Environmental Justice Task 
Force
First Hawaiian BankHawai‘i Alliance for Community Based  
   Economic DevelopmentHawai‘i Alliance of Nonprofit OrganizationsHawai‘i Bicycling LeagueHawai‘i Cattlemen's CouncilHawai‘i Children's Action NetworkHawai‘i Community FoundationHawai‘i Conservation AllianceHawai‘i Electric Vehicle AssociationHawai‘i EnergyHawai‘i Farm BureauHawai‘i Farmers Union UnitedHawai‘i Food Industry AssociationHawai‘i Foreign Trade Zone 9Hawai‘i GasHawai‘i Green GrowthHawai‘i Institute for Human RightsHawai‘i Medical Services AssociationHawai‘i Pacific HealthHawai‘i Pacific UniversityHawai‘i Philanthropy ForumHawai‘i Primary Care AssociationHawai‘i Public Health InstituteHawai‘i Sea GrantHawai‘i Youth Climate CoalitionHawai‘i Appleseed Center for Law and 
Economic Justice
Hawaiian AirlinesHawaiian Electric CompanyHawaiian Telcom, Inc.Healthcare Association of Hawai‘iHHFHistoric Hawai‘i FoundationILWU Hawai‘iIntegral GroupInterstate RestorationIsland SignalKamehameha SchoolsKanu Hawai‘iKaua‘i Island Utility CooperativeKawanui FarmKohala InstituteKokua Hawai‘i FoundationKualoa RanchKupu Hawai‘iLGBT Caucus of Hawai‘iMari's GardensMarriott InternationalMaui Economic Opportunity, Inc.New York UniversityOffice of Hawaiian AffairsOla Hawai‘iOne World One WaterPacific BiodieselPacific Gateway CenterParents and Children TogetherPBR Hawai‘iPūlama Lāna‘iRetail Merchants of Hawai‘iRoth Ecological Design InternationalSierra Club of Hawai‘iSSFM Hawai‘iSurfrider Foundation-Hawai‘i RegionSustainable Coastlines of Hawai‘iSust‘ainable Moloka‘iTetratech Hawai‘iThe Healy FoundationThe Nature Conservancy of Hawai‘iThe Queen's Health SystemsTrust for Public Land Hawai‘iU.N. Department of Economic and Social Affairs   –  
   Division of Sustainable DevelopmentU.S. Green Building Council – Hawai‘i ChapterU.S. Department of Agriculture – Hawai‘i OfficeU.S. Environmental Protection Agency – Region 9U.S. Federal Aviation Administration – Western Pacific  
   RegionU.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency – Region 9U.S. Federal Highways Administration – Hawai‘i DivisionU.S. Fish and Wildlife Service – Pacific RegionU.S. Geological Survey – Pacific RegionU.S. Housing and Urban Development- Honolulu Field  
   OfficeU.S. Indo – Pacific CommandU.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association –  
   Pacific Islands RegionUlupono InitiativeUniversity of Hawai‘i – HiloUniversity of Hawai‘i – MānoaUniversity of Hawai‘i – West O‘ahu University of Hawai‘i Economic Research OrganizationUrban FabrickVulcanWastewater Alternatives and InnovationsWATGWilliam S. Richardson School of LawZero Waste OahuState of Hawai‘i Office of the Governor
Members of the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
State of Hawai‘i DLNR, Division of Aquatic 
Resources 
State of Hawai‘i DLNR, Division of State Parks State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation
Hawai‘i State Energy OfficeHawai‘i Tourism Authority
City and County of Honolulu Board of Water  
   SupplyCity and County of Honolulu Office of Climate 
Change, Sustainability, and ResiliencyMembers of the Hawai‘i County Council 
County of Kaua‘i Planning Department 
 Kaua‘i Emergency Management Agency
Members of the Maui County CouncilCounty of Maui – Office of Climate Action,  
Sustainability, and Resilience
‘Āina Momona
AmeriCorps Volunteers in Service to AmericaAndrew Richard HaraFriends of Hanauma BayHawai‘i Association of Watershed PartnershipsHawai‘i Cattlemen's CouncilHawai‘i Community FoundationHawai‘i Farm BureauKō Hana DistillersLāna‘i Community Health CenterMa Ka Hana Ka ‘IkeMoloka‘i Homestead Farmers AlliancePacific BiodieselPu‘uhonua o PunaU.S. Green Building Council – Hawai‘i ChapterWai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health CenterWindward Zero Waste School Hui
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    5
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADC Agribusiness Development 
Corporation
AFOLU Agriculture, Forestry, and Land Use
ALICE Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed
BOE Board of Education
BWS Board of Water Supply
CARES ActCoronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act
COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease 2019
CO2Carbon Dioxide
CWRM Commission on Water Resource Management
CZM Coastal Zone Management Program
DAR Division of Aquatic Resources
DBEDT Department of Business, Economic Development & Tourism
DHHL Department of Hawaiian Home Lands
DLNR Department of Land and Natural Resources
DOE Department of Education
DOH Department of Health
EBT/SNAPElectronic Benefit Transfer/Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
EEPS Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard
EPA Environmental Protection Agency
ESSA Every Student Succeeds Act
FDA Food and Drug Administration
GDE Groundwater Dependent Ecosystems
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GHG Greenhouse Gas
GWh Gigawatt Hour
HB House Bill
HDOA Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture
HCR House Concurrent ResolutionHRS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes
HSEO Hawai‘i State Energy Office
HTA Hawai‘i Tourism Authority
IECC International Energy Conservation Code
IPCC U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
IPPU Industrial Processes and Product Use
IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature
LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
LGBTQ+ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer
MWh Megawatt Hour
NCRS Natural Resources Conservation Service
RPS Renewable Portfolio Standard
OP Office of Planning
SB Senate Bill 
SCR Senate Concurrent Resolution
SDG Sustainable Development Goal
SLH Session Laws of Hawai‘i
TOD Transit-Oriented Development
TRHT Truth, Racial Healing, and Transformation
UN United Nations
UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
USFWS U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
ZEV Zero-Emission Vehicle
 6GLOSSARY OF HA W AIIAN WORDS & PHRASES 
This list provides the following words, phrases, and 
their corresponding definitions used in this 
document.  The translations are shortened from 
Ulukau, the Hawaiian Electric Library. 1
 Ahupua‘a means a land division usually extending 
from the uplands to the sea, so called because the 
boundary was marked by a heap (ahu) of stones 
surmo unted by an image of a pig (pua‘a), or because a 
pig or other tribute was laid on the altar as tax to the 
Chief.  The boundaries of an ahupua‘a are based on 
the
 region's watersheds.
‘A- ina means land, earth.
‘A- ina momona means rich, abundant, productive,
fertile lands which sustain life.
‘Aina Pono means righteous meal, or good meal.
Aloha means affection, love, compassion for others. 
The phrase also serves as Greetings, Hello, Good Bye, 
Farewell.
H
a- lau hula means a school or hall in which the
Hawaiian dance form called hula is practiced, hula 
school.
H
a- wai (Neritina granosa) means a freshwater snail
endemic to Hawai‘i.
Holomua means progress, or to move forward.
‘Ike means knowledge, or wisdom.
Kama‘-aina means a native-born, one born in a place, 
host. 
Ka- naka Maoli means Native Hawaiians.
Ka- kou means we (inclusive, three or more), ours.
Kapu
 means f orbidden, sacred.
Keiki means child or children.
Kuleana means right, privilege, concern, 
responsibility.
Ko‘a means coral. 
Kumulipo means origin, or source of life; and is the 
name of the Hawaiian creation chant.
Kupu means to sprout, or to grow.
1 Available online at: http://wehewehe.org.  Lo‘i means irrigated terrace, especially for taro. 
Lo‘i Kalo means taro terrace.
Loko I‘a means Hawaiian fishponds.Ma kai means toward the ocean.Maka‘a-inana means people that attend the land.
Ma-keke  means market.
Ma-la means garden, plantation, patch, or cultivated
field.Ma-lama ‘a-ina means to care for the land.
Ma-lama Hawai‘i means to care for Hawai‘i.
Ma-lama Honua means to care for the Earth.
Mana‘o means a thought or belief.Ma uka means inland or toward the upland. Momona means fertile, or rich, as soil. 
 
‘Ōlelo means language or speech.
‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i means Hawaiian language.
‘O‘opu means a type of freshwater fish or goby, 
which generally describes any of the four endemic or one indigenous species in Hawai‘i. [‘O‘opu hi‘u kole (Lentipes concolor), ‘O‘opu nōpili (Sicyopterus stimpsoni), ‘O‘opu nākea (Awaous guamensis), ‘O‘opu naniha (Stenogoblus hawaiiensis), and ‘O‘opu ‘akupa (Eleotris sandwicensis)] 
‘Ōpae means a type of freshwater shrimp, which 
generally describes either of the two endemic shrimp species in Hawai‘i. [‘Ōpae kala‘ole (Atyoida bisulcata), and ‘Ōpae ‘oeha‘a (Macrobrachium grandimanus)]
Pono means goodness, uprightness, morality, moral 
qualities, correct or proper procedure, excellence, equity, fair, righteous, welfare, and wellbeing.
Pu‘uhonua means place of refuge. Pae‘a-ina Hawai‘i means the Hawaiian Islands. 
Wahi Kapu means sacred place.Wahi Pana means legendary place. Wahine means woman. Wa-hine means women, the plural of woman.
Hawai'i 2050
 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    7
GLOSSARY OF HA W AIIAN PROVERBS
‘O–lelo No‘eau 
‘A ‘ohe hana nui ke alu ‘ia   
No task is too big when done together by all.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #142)  
E ala! E alu! E kuilima! 
Up! Tog
ether! Join Hands!  
A call to come together to tackle a given task.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #258)  
E kuahui like i ka hana  
Let eve
rybody pitch in and work together.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #323)  
Hahai no ka ua i ka ululā‘au  
Rains alway
s follow the forest.  
The rains are attracted to forest trees. Knowing this Hawaiians hewed only the trees that were needed.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #405)  
Ma ka hana ka ‘ike  
 In working one learns.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #2088)  
Ua mau ke ea o ka ‘āina i ka pono  
The life of the land is preserved in righteousness.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #2829)   The following list provides the Hawaiian proverbs and their corresponding definitions used in this document. 
Integrating Hawaiian proverbs and poetry raises awareness of ‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i and ‘Ōlelo No‘eau, as well as cultivates appreciation for the Hawaiian cultural ethos of environmental guardianship. The ‘Ōlelo No‘eau referenced herein are from the collection in ‘Ōlelo No‘eau: Hawaiian Proverbs & Poetical Sayings – collected, translated, and annotated by Mary Kawena Pukui.
In addition to the ‘Ōlelo No‘eau referenced above, the following Hawaiian proverbs and their corresponding 
definitions were also used in during the virtual public information sharing sessions and public outreach for this Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan.
‘A ‘ohe pu‘u ki‘eki‘e ke ho‘ā‘o ‘ia e pi‘i 
No cliff i
s so tall that it cannot be scaled.  
No problem is too great when one tries hard to solve it.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #209)  
Hili hewa ka mana‘o ke ‘ole ke kūkākūkā  
Ideas run wild without  discussion.  
Discussion brings ideas together into a plan.  
(‘Ōlelo No‘eau #993)  
 8E KUAHUI LIKE I KA HAN A
Let Everyone Pitch In And W ork T ogether
The  State of Hawai‘i has a strong history and posit ive  mome ntum across a range of public and 
private efforts to set the state on a course  toward climate resilience, and economic, social,  an d 
environmental sustainability.  Existing State  poli cies, State and County agency programs, and 
voluntary initiatives such as the Aloha+ Challenge and the Sustai nable Hawai‘i Initiative are driving 
pro gress, while the United Nations' Sustainable Deve lopme nt Goals (SDGs) have created a destination in  
the form of a globally unified set of 17 targets. 
Concurrently, the state's isolation and finite resource s have limited the affordable access to h ousing, 
utilities, transportation, and food for many of  Hawai‘i's resi dents.   The recent COVID-19 global 
pandemic exacerbated many of these economic and soc ial chal lenge s. Environmental impacts from 
poll ution and invasive species continue to threaten our islands‘ native biodiversity, while  Hawai‘i's 
changing climate unfolds.  Climate change in  Haw ai‘i will exacerbate these existing problems and inflict  
more  state wide challenges including sea level rise, drought,  wildf ires, hurricanes, precipitation loss, 
rising temperatures, and increased risks to public he alth. 
These  disruptions and challenges offer an opport unity t o rethin k how and where we invest — 
to identify needed adjustments to promote local food  prod uction, climate resilience, green 
infrast ructure, resource management, affordable housin g, a nd more. 
As we do so, we can draw inspiration and guidance from well- adapted traditional Hawaiian ahupua‘a 
values and practices that foster a systems appro ach to stewardship, sustainable well-being, and 
intergenerational equity (the duty of present generations to support future generations).
To create a vibrant, resilient economy, a healthy q uality of life grounded in a multi-ethnic 
culture and Kānaka Maoli values, and healthy natura l resources— we need a shared 
understanding of our goals and the action s required  to achieve them.  Within this context, the 
State of  Hawai‘i is updating and revising t he scope of  its  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve  as the  
State's climate and sustainability strategic acti on plan, pursuant to  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes § 226-65 . 
This plan includes specific priority strategies and actions to advance economic, social, environmental 
sustai nability, and climate resilience in Hawai ‘i over this decade.  This  Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
desc ribes the existing statewide efforts in relation to the UN SDGs and presents the State's current  
commitments to guide the coordination and implementat ion  of t he State's sustainability and climate 
adaptation goals, principles, and policies.
This plan captures and will help refocus the  mome ntum sta tewide created through past and 
ongoing initiatives, helping to guide us forwa rd to a more prosperous, equitable, resilient, and 
sust aina ble future.  This is an inclusive journey toward a share d vision of the  Hawai‘i that we 
wa nt to live in and pass on to future generat ions.  Achie vin g this vision will require a kākou 
effort, with all of  Hawai‘i's government agencies, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and 
citizens to pitch in and work together.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    9
The Unit ed Nations designated 2020–2030 as the “Decade of Action,” a time to accelerate progress toward 
achi eving t he Sust ainable Development Goals (SDGs), a globally unified set of 17 targets.  The people of 
Hawai‘i are committed to and have built positive momentum toward achieving these goals across 
a range of public and private efforts to achieve the SDGs by 2030.  In coordination with existing State 
poli cies, St ate and County agency programs, and voluntary initiatives such as the Aloha+ Challenge and the 
Sustainable Hawai‘i  Init iative, this Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan recommends additional actions to achieve 
near-t erm solutions for Hawai‘i's climate resilience and economic, social, and environmental sustainability.
To cult ivat e a vibrant, resilient economy, a healthy quality of life grounded in a multi-ethnic culture and 
Kānaka Maoli values, and healthy natural resources—we need a shared understanding of our goals and the 
actions required to achieve them.  While the COVID-19 global pandemic underscored Hawai‘i's economic and 
communit y vulnerabilities and inequities with regard to ensuring basic necessities including food security, 
housing affordabili ty, and household financial security—it also provided a unique opportunity to rethink 
and recalibrate Hawai‘i's “new normal” through an equitable, resilient, and sustainable recovery.
To inform t he evolution of Hawai‘i's “new normal,” and consistent with a community-driven approach, this 
updat ed plan employed an extensive engagement and outreach process that included two public surveys, 
multi ple stakeholder interviews, and nine virtual public information-sharing sessions.  This public 
engagemen t process identified climate action as the top sustainability priority to achieve within 
this decade, followed b y sustainable cities and communities and clean and affordable energy, and 
the need to increase Hawai‘i's local food production and food security. 
Input from this extensive public engagement informed the development of this plan by providing insights into a 
shared vision for Hawai‘i's sustainable economic recovery.  The dialogue with stakeholders and the public 
recognized actions that organizations are already taking to achieve the SDGs, identified policy and program 
gaps, and recommended actions to enhance sustainability and climate change adaptation in Hawai‘i. 
This updated plan fulfills the revised the scope of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan to serve as the State's 
climate and sustainability strategic action plan, pursuant to Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65.  Hawai‘i has 
made sign ifican t sustainab ility commitments through laws, policies, and plans that reflect our local 
values.   For the first time, this updated plan presents Hawai‘i's commitments as a collective whole and aligned 
with the SDGs. There is much work yet to be done to achieve these sustainability and climate goals and 
commi tments. 
This plan  identifies 8 focus areas with 38 strategies and more than 250 recommended actions that 
poin t to what is urgent to undertake over this decade.  These focus areas align with priorities identified 
through public and stakeholder engagement, as well as ongoing commitments the State has made as described 
in this plan. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan
Charting a Cour se for the D ecade of Action  (2020–2030)
 10FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DECADE OF ACTION: 
UL TIMATELY, A SUCCESSFUL DECADE OF ACTION 
IN HAWAI‘I WILL REQUIRE:Prom ote a 
Sustainable 
Economic Recovery 
through strategies that 
support local
agriculture, 
green workforce 
development and 
education, and 
sustainable and 
regenerative tourism.Reduce Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
by continuing to 
monitor the state's 
emissions and reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions through 
strategies in the energy, 
transportation, 
agriculture and waste 
sectors.
Advance Equity  
by e nsuring equitable 
access to resources,
addressing affordable 
housing and 
homelessness crises, 
and improving gender 
equity.Institutionalize 
Sustainability 
Th roughout 
Government  
by increasing the 
government's capacity 
through 
institutionalized 
collaboration to address 
sustainability and 
greening government 
operations.Improve Climat e 
Resilience by 
continuing to 
monitor and adapt to 
climate impacts and 
take actions to 
increase the 
resilience of the 
natural and built 
environments and 
their occupants.
Preserve 
the Natural 
Environment, 
including a focus on 
clean water, marine 
resources and 
ecosystems, and 
natural resource 
protection.Advance Sustainable 
Com munities through 
strategies that improve 
land use and access 
to green space, advance 
sustainable practices in 
schools, and encourage 
sustainable 
buildings and 
infrastructure.
Perpetuate 
Traditional 
Ecological Knowledge  
and Values 
as Hawai‘i 
collectively tackles 
these sustainability and 
climate challenges.1
5 6 7 82 3 4
•Strategic prioritization of 
limited resources.  When 
prioritizing investments, 
funders should evaluate 
whether the activity 
contributes to one or more 
SDG, is ready for action 
(e.g., existing targets, 
policies, plans, and/
or partnerships are in 
place), addresses an urgent 
need, directly or indirectly 
addresses equity, explicitly 
protects Hawai‘i's local 
values, and will benefit 
local residents. • Identification and 
commitment from lead
 and 
supporting actors.  There 
are opportunities for 
everyone (elected officials, 
state agencies, counties, the 
private sector, community 
organizations, students, and 
residents) to lead or support 
efforts to achieve these 
strategies.
Collaboration is essential.• Development of metrics 
to define success and then 
enable measurement and 
tracking of our progress. 
Defined endpoints and 
metrics for success 
will make it possible to 
measure advancements 
and identify where gaps 
remain; in some cases, 
targets and metrics have 
already been identified 
whereas a collective vision
will need to be developed 
in other cases.•  A realistic timeline to 
work toward.  We can move 
quickly to start some 
strategies, for which 
sustained efforts will be 
necessary to make steady, 
incremental progress. 
Other sustainability and 
climate strategies may 
require significant upfront 
planning, buy-in from 
disparate parties, and 
securing financial support 
before a swift and dramatic 
change can be made. 
Establishing clear and 
feasible timelines that set 
out incremental milestones
will ensure greater success. 
Let's work together to achieve an equitable, resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i!
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    11
HAWAI‘I'S SU STAINABILITY
& CLIMATE JOURNEY  
Let Everyone Pitch In And Work Tog ether
1998
20052008
20112012
2014This updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability P lan 
is not the state's first step on the journey 
toward a sustainable future:
The State published its 
first Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Action Plan.
Act 8, Special Session 
Laws of Hawai‘i 2005 
established the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Task Force 
(2005–2008) and directed 
the task force to develop the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan.The Hawai‘i State Auditor 
published the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability Plan to 
address the vital needs of 
Hawai‘i through the year 
2050 and beyond.
The State's 
Sustainability Priority 
Guidelines were codified 
in the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act, as HRS 
§226-108.The State's Climate 
Change Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines were codified in 
the Hawai‘i State Planning 
Act, as HRS §226-109.
Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 69 was 
passed to establish 
the Aloha+ Challenge 
Goals, which were 
inspired by the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability 
Plan.
 122017
20182019Hawai‘i became the 
first state in the nation 
to enact legislation 
committing to the 
United Nations Paris 
Agreement, through the 
enactment of Act 32, 
Session Laws of 
Hawai‘i 2017.The Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Mitigation and 
Adaptation Commission 
was established by 
HRS §225P-3.
and 
The State's Greenhouse Gas 
Sequestration Task Force was 
established through HRS §225P-4, 
to increase greenhouse gas 
sequestration.  
and 
The Hawai‘i State Auditor, with the 
assistance of the State of Hawai‘i's 
Office of Planning, undertook a 10-
year measurement of the 2008 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
that evaluated the plan's progress 
between 2008 and 2017.Act 14 6, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 
2019, codified as HRS §226-65, 
amended the scope of the 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  
to serve as the State's climate and 
sustainability strategic action plan 
to determine future actions guiding 
coordination and implementation 
of sustainability and climate 
adaptation goals, principles, and 
policies . The law directs the State 
of Hawai‘i's Office of Planning to 
update the Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan every 10 years.
20202021
The State of Hawai‘i's 
Office of Planning 
was revised by Act 
45, Session Laws 
of Hawai‘i 2020, to 
provide statewide 
sustainability, climate 
adaptation, and sea 
level rise adaptation 
planning and 
coordination.The State officially established 
the state's first Statewide Sustainability Program also through Act 45, codified as Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-8, to provide statewidesustainability and climateadaptation planning andcoordination. The StatewideSustainability Program is directedto develop, organize, and promotepolicies and programs that assistin the meeting of Hawai‘i'snumerous sustainability andclimate policies and goals.The State of 
Hawai‘i became 
the first state 
in the nation to 
declare a climate 
emergency by 
adopting Senate 
Concurrent 
Resolution 44.This document, the updated Hawai‘i 2050 
Sustainability Plan, was released.The Hawai‘i State 
Legislature passed House 
Bill (HB) 1149
1 and HB 
1318,1which together, 
consolidate government land 
use functions of different 
agencies in order to improve 
the coordination of state 
government to work more 
efficiently to achieve the 
state's sustainability and 
climate change goals for 
a more abundant future 
for the people of Hawai‘i, 
and renames the Office of 
Planning to the “Office of 
Planning and Sustainable 
Development.”
1 At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature and transmitted to 
the Governor for consideration.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    13
The State of  Hawai‘i's L egal and Statutory Sustainability Targets
The  State of Hawai‘i has enacted and codified many  legal an d statut ory targets to prepare for and transition 
Hawai‘i toward its sustainable and climat e-resilien t future . 
2000
2010
2015
2020
2022
2030  Statewide Recycling Goal HRS §342G-3 
Establishes a statewide goal to reduce the solid waste stream prior to disposal by 50% through source 
reduction, recycling, and bioconversion by January 1, 2000
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard
 HRS §269-92
Requires each electric utility company that sell
s electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 
10% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2010.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the State to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 15% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2015.
Statewide Greenhouse Gas Emissions Limit HRS §342B-71 
Establishes a statewide greenhouse gas emissions cap to be equal to or below the level of the statewide 
greenhouse gas emissions in 1990 by the year 2020.
Statewide Prohibition of Coal Power HRS §269-48 
Prevents the State Public Utilities Commission from approving new, renewed, or extending power proposals 
within the state to burn or consume coal to generate electricity beginning June 30, 2020. 
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard  HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 30% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2020.
Statewide Ban of Coal Power for Electricity Generation  HRS §342B-36 
Concludes all coal burning within the state on December 31, 2022. 
Statewide Departmental Proc
urement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 10% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural  products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by 
January 1, 2025.
Statewide Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standards  HRS §269-96 
Requires that 4,300 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity use be reduced by 2030.
Double Local Food Production Act 151, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019 
Directs the State Department of Agriculture to develop a strategic plan to double local food production and 
increase food exports by 2030.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard  
HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 
40% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2030.
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State
Legislature and transmitted to the Governor
 for consideration.BY: TARGET:
 142025Clean Transportation Goal: State Fleet Transition to Zero Emission Vehicles HB 552, 2021*
Requires the transition of 100% of the State's fleet that are light-duty motor vehicles passenger cars to be zero-
emission vehicles by December 31, 2030.
Local Farm  to School Meal Goal HB 767, 2021*
Requires the State Department of Education to serve 30% of food served in public schools to consist of locally sourced 
products by 2030.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 18% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2030.
Hawai‘i Public Schools Net-Zero Energy Goal HRS §302A-1510 
Requires the State Department of Education to becom e net-zero in energy use, producing as much renewable energy 
as it consumes across all  public school facilities by January 1, 2035. 
University of Hawai‘i Net-Zero Energy Goal HRS §304A-119 
Requires the University of Hawai‘i to become net-zero in energy use, producing as much renewable energy as it 
consumes across all cam puses by January 1, 2035. 
Clean Transportation Goal: State Fleet Transition to Zero Emission Vehicle HB 552, 2021*
Requires the transition of 100% of the State's fleet for all other light-duty motor vehicles to be zero-emission vehicles 
by December 31, 2035.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*  
Requires each State department to ensure that 26% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2035.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269-92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consumption in the state to establish a renewable 
portfolio standard of 70% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2040.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021* 
Requires each State department to ensure that 34% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2040.
Reclaimed Water in State and County Facilities  HRS §174C-31 (g) (6) 
Requires the use of reclaimed water in 100% of State and County facilities, except for drinking and potable water 
uses, by December 31, 2045.
Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target HRS §225P-5 
Establishes a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and greenhouse gases than emitted within the 
state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045.
Statewide Renewable Portfolio Standard HRS §269- 92 
Requires each electric utility company that sells electricity for consum ption in the state to establish a 
renewable portfolio standard of 100% of its net electricity sales by December 31, 2045.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*
Requires each State department to ensure that 42% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2045.
Statewide Cesspool Conversion HRS §342D-72 
Requires the mandatory upgrade, conversion, or connection of all cesspools statewide (over 88,000 cesspools) by 
January 1, 2050.
Statewide Departmental Procurement Benchmarks: Locally Produced Food  HB 817, 2021*
Requires each state department to ensure that 50% of the produce purchased by that department consists 
of fresh local  agricul tural products or local value-added, processed, agricultural, or food products by January 1, 2050.2035  BY: TARGET:
2045
20502040  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    15
2030
(Continued)  The Aloha+ Challenge
The Sustainable Hawai‘i InitiativeInspired by the 2008 publication of  
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, and the Micronesian Challenge, the State of  Hawai‘i adopted Senate Concurrent Resolution 69 in 2014 establishing the Aloha+ Challenge goals. Unlike the legal and statutory targets presented in the previous section, the Aloha+ Challenge Goals are not legally codified but set informal, integrated goals and six ambitious targets to be achieved by 2030.By 2030:
1. Clean Energy: Achieve 70% clean energy, with 40% from renewable sources and 30% from efficiency, with a view toward100% renewable energy by 2045.  
2. Local Food:  At least double the local food production with agoal of 20–30% of food consumed being grown locally.  
3. Natural Resource Management:  Reverse the trend of natural resource loss mauka to makai by increasing watershed protection, community-based marine management, invasive species prevention and control, increasing freshwater capacity,and restoration of native species.  
4. Waste Reduction:  Reduce the solid waste stream prior todisposal by 50%, through source reduction, recycling, and bioconversion.
5. Smart Sustainable Communities:  Increase livability and
resilience in the built environment through planning and implementation at the state and county levels.  
In September 2016, the State of  Hawai‘i hosted the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) World Conservation Congress, with more than 10,000 participants from 192 countries. At this meeting, the State announced its Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative, which focuses on conservation and environmental sustainability. These commitments are not legally binding and may be updated or replaced by commitments codified in law.Sustainable Hawai‘i Commitments:
1. Double local food production by 2020
2. Implement the Interagency Biosecurity Plan by 20273. Protect 30% of Hawai‘i priority watersheds by 20304. Effectively manage 30% of Hawai‘i nearshore ocean waters  
by 20305. Achieve 100% renewable energy by 2045
 16Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    17THE UPDATE PROCESS
FOR THE HAWAI‘I 2050 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
The State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning began a process to update the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  during 
Earth Week in 2020, at the outset of the COVID-19 global pandemic.  As the pandemic stretched on and 
development of the plan progressed, it became increasingly clear that a sustainable economic recovery must be 
central to Hawai‘i's sustainability and climate resil ience efforts over this decade.
Consistent with a community-driven approach, this update relied on input from stakeholders and the public 
through an engagement process that involved two surveys , nine virtual information-sharing sessions, interviews 
with stakeholders, and a broad public outreach effo rt.  Input from these engagements informed the development of 
this plan by providing insights into a shared vision for  a sustainable economic recovery, recognizing actions  that 
various organizations are already taking to achieve the SDGs, discussing policy and program gaps, and identifying 
actions to enhance sustainability and climate change adaptation in Hawai‘i . 
The Office of Planning reviewed more than 150 existing l aws, plans, policies, programs, and strategies relevan t to 
sustainability and climate change in  Hawai‘i to dete rmine how their activities and recommendations align with the 
17 SDGs and identify gaps where individual SDGs are n ot being addressed by existing efforts.  Based on the findings 
of this review and the public input gathered during th e surveys and information-sharing sessions, the Of fice of 
Planning then developed an initial list of recommended actions for the 2020–2030 timeframe.  A draft plan was 
shared with stakeholders throughout State and County government agencies to solicit feedback and inpu t on 
priority focus areas.  Ultimately, the Office of Planning identified a set of near-term priority focus areas based on 
pressing climate resilience and economic, social, and environmental issues, this plan's extensive stakeholder 
feedback and public outreach process, and State initiat ives and priorities.  The selection process prioritized 
actions that address multiple SDGs, have strong support fr om stakeholders and the public, and can be impleme nted 
in this decade (between 2020 and 2030).
2
9
17150230
U.N. Sustainabl e Development Goals (SDGs)Public surveys 
Public Virtual Information Sharing Sessions 
Participating
 agencies, organizations, 
and nonprofits
Existing plans, policies, progams, strategies 
 18Key concepts shared 
by public participants that emerged that are essential to Hawai‘i sustainable economic recovery included: •Haw ai‘i has unique challenges but also unique opportunities.
•Hawai‘i can look to the past for lessons for the futur e.  Hawai‘i
can benefit from the value in contemporary restoration of cultural 
practices. 
•Hawai‘i can serve as an example for other islands by modeling
sustainability. 
•Hawai‘i should pursue goals that increase equity and/or
explicitly address equity issues in their implementation. 
•The COVID-19 global pandemic had disproportionate impacts on 
ALICE® (Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed) 
households and communities, highlighting a need to invest more
resources and support in those communities. 
•The COVID-19 global pandemic has highlighted food securi ty
issues and the need to support local agriculture. 
•Boost childcare, eldercare, and education, and offer supp ort for 
women whose jobs and family roles were negatively impa cted by
the COVID-19 global pandemic.
•Rebuild the workforce by empowering youth, investing in green 
and clean energy workforce development, and upskilling the labor
force to compete in the global market through initiatives  such as 
strengthened broadband for remote work.
•Pursue innovative opportunities in the clean energy and 
agricultural sectors to enhance economic growth, workfor ce
development, and food security.
• Rely less on imports while making better use of existing local
resources—including local agriculture—to develop a circular 
economy to become more self-sufficient. 
• Build the economy to serve and be driven by local popu lations
(for example, through local food production).In addition, these public sessions and the feedback provided by the public participants identified where and how  Hawai‘i needs to focus its efforts to address these challenges and opportunities:Feedback from Public Engagement 
This plan aims to be useful to the many changemakers in  Hawai‘i whose actions have and will continue to help 
achieve its goals, including (but not limited to): elected officials, state agencies, county governments, community organizations, businesses, students and youth, and residents. Any one individual may represent several of these groups and may use different elements of this plan for different uses (for example, a nonprofit organization may find the content valuable in supporting their grant-writing efforts while elected officials and governmental entities may gain a clearer picture of what policies or actions are considered to be more urgent). As such, it was a critical time to engage with the public on a shared vision for an equitable, climate resilient, and sustainable Hawai‘i .
Through nine virtual public information sharing sessions and two public outreach surveys, the Office of Planning 
solicited input from  Hawai‘i residents regarding their vision for a sustainable economic recovery from the COVID-19 global pandemic as well as current policy gaps or barriers to achieving Hawai‘i sustainable future. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    19
RECOMMITTING TO A 
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
This update serves as a checkpoint and an o pportunity for 
recommitment, especially in light of the vulnerab ilities 
further highlighted by the COVID-19 global pande mic.  
Now more than ever it is clear that Hawai‘i nee ds to b ecom e 
mor e resilient, adaptable, equitable, and e conomical ly 
diversified.  As Hawai‘i recovers and buil ds b ack s tronger from 
the  pandemic, the State can redefine a more s ustainab le and 
resilient way of life that can protect us against  future risks, 
including those from climate change.
This plan pursues outcomes reflected with a Kān aka 
Maoli worldview to mālama ‘āina and mālama Hon ua and 
contemporary restoration of cultural practice s, along wi th 
existing state policies (including the Hawai ‘i State  Plannin g 
Act and Functional Plan objectives), the Aloha+  Challen ge 
goals, the Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative g oals, and other 
sustainability and climate resilient laws, policies, and 
initiatives. 
We are not starting from scratch.
This updated Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan  is alig ned with the SDGs, which provides a pathway  to achievi ng a 
better and more sustainable future for all , and thi s plan pl ays a key role in achieving those goals, guid ing economic 
diversification and development toward sustain ability while harnessing innovation and creativity to buil d resi lienc e 
to climate change and other future risks. 
Dev eloped with collaboration and input from sta kehold ers around the state, this updated plan provides 
recommendations for priority action areas over thi s decad e that will help advance these goals.  This plan does not 
provide a step-by-step guide for what each indi vidual and organization can and should do.  It is time to dr aw upon 
your networks, ‘ike, and enthusiasm to take the ste ps nee ded to ach ieve these goals to continue to mālama Hawai‘i for 
the benefit of Hawai‘i's future generations.“Sustainability” means achieving 
the following: 
•Resp ect of culture, character, beauty, and 
history
 of the state's island communities; 
•Striking balance between economic, social, 
community, and environmental priorities; and 
•Meeting the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations 
to meet their own needs. 
(Hawai‘i R
evised Statutes §226-2)
 20Thi s plan identifies 8 focus areas with 38 strate gies and more th an 250 re commended actions that that will help 
Hawai‘i become more equitable, clim ate resilient, and sustainable during this Decade of Act ion.  These focus areas 
align  with priorities identified through public an d stakeholder engagement, as well as ongoing commitments  the Sta te 
has  made as described in this plan.  
The 8 recommended focus areas for the Decade  of Action : 
Promote a 
Sustainable 
Economic Recovery 
through strategies 
that support 
local agriculture, 
green workforce 
development and 
education, and 
sustainable and 
regenerative tourism.Reduce 
Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
by continuing to 
monitor the state's 
emissions and reduce 
greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions 
through strategies in 
the energy, 
transportation, 
agriculture and waste 
sectors.
Advance Equity by 
ensuring equitable 
access to resources, 
addressing affordable 
housing and homelessness crises, 
and improving gender 
equity.Institutionalize 
Sustainability 
Throughout 
Government  
by increasing the 
government's 
capacity through 
institutionalized 
collaboration to 
address sustainability and greening 
government 
operations.Improve Cli mate 
Resilience by 
continuing to monitor 
and adapt to climate 
impacts and take 
actions to increase 
the resilience of the 
natural and built 
environments and 
their occupants.
Preserve 
the Natural 
Environment, 
including a focus on 
clean water, marine 
resources and 
ecosystems, and 
natural resource 
protection. Adva nce Sustainable 
Communities
 through 
strategies that improve 
land use and access 
to green space, advance 
sustainable practices in 
schools, and encourage 
sustainable buildings 
and infrastructure.
Perpetuate 
Traditional 
Ecological Knowledge  
and 
Values as H awai‘i 
collectively tackles 
these sustainability and 
climate challenges.1
5 6 7 82 3 4
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    21
HAWAI‘I'S COMMITMENT TO 
THE SDGS
The United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development identified 17 SDGs that represent an urgent call 
for global action to end poverty, improve health and edu cation, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth, 
while tackling climate change and preserving natural resources.  The United Nations designated 2020–2030 as 
the “Decade of Action,” a time to accelerate progress toward the SDGs through sustainable solutions in order to 
achieve the goals by 2030 (United Nations 2021).  There is a renewed sense of urgency to reduce emissions to 
mitigate the impacts of climate change and meet the goals of the United Nations Paris Agreement to limit global 
warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, above pre-industrial levels (IPCC 
2018). The UN SDGs provide a framework to work in alignment with the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
This plan uses the SDGs as a framework for assessing the State's current commitments to sustainability and 
priority actions to take over the coming decade.  The SDGs also form the framework of Hawai‘i's Aloha+ 
Challenge,
 a voluntary initiative that sets six statewide sustainability targets by 2030. 
Hawai‘i enters the Decade of Action with tremendous progress underway.  The COVID-19 global pandemic 
marked both a moment of crisis and a moment of opportunity for Hawai‘i's adaptive change, with the SDGs 
serving as a focal point to guide us toward a sustainable economic recovery.
The Role of Local Plans in Advancing Sustainability and Climate Resilience
The County General Plans and the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan are foundationally related within the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act.  Both planning requirements are codif ied within Part II, the Implementation Section of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act, and more importantly, the County General Plans serve as a foundation for county 
planning.  The current and future efforts to integrate the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Hawai‘i's legal and
statutory sustainability targets, sustainable development, and climate resilience into County General Plans can 
continue to play a pivotal role in county land use planning.  Other local plans and directives directly address 
climate change. In 2019, the Hawai‘i County C
ouncil adopted Resolution 322-19, similarly the Maui County 
Council adopted Resolution 19-209, both declaring a Climate Emergency (County of Hawai‘i 2019, County of 
Maui 2019).  Honolulu Mayor's Directive 18-2 requires
 “all City departments and agencies to take a proactive 
approach to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt projects to the physical impacts of climate change.”
Ex
amples of these plans include:
 
The County of Hawai‘i General Plan 2040 is being drafted to contain goals, measurable 
sustainability objectives, and policies and actions to achieve these sustainability objectives. 
The draft plan is structured using a sustainability framework to guide the development of the 
plan.  The County of Hawai‘i's draft General Plan 2040 incorp orates both climate change 
mitigation and adaptation strategies, and is intended to respect the culture, character, beauty 
and history of the Island of Hawai‘i while attempting to integr ate balance between 
environmental stewardship, social and community equity and economic sufficiency in order to 
meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations of the 
island to meet their own needs.  
Th e County of Hawai‘i Climate Action Plan is also concurrently  being drafted to include 
sectoral suggestions to: reduce emissions, including requiring owners and managers of multi-
family dwellings and multi-tenant commercial buildings to provide recycling; promote a 
circular economy that is designed to minimize pollution, extraction of fossil fuels, and raw 
materials; support using financial mechanisms to incentivize waste reduction; proposes County 
codes in ways that maximize landfill diversion such as requiring recycling at State and County 
offices, eliminating the sale of Styrofoam and single use  plastics, and prohibiting the disposal of 
organic waste at landfills; and promote pollution prevention and the adoption of sustainable 
practices by companies, communities, governmental organiza tions, and individuals.  
 22
The County's long-range planning documents  (RO H Ch apter 24) contain policies to reduce contam ination 
and non-point source pollution, increase wate r con servation, protect sensitive wetland environments, and  
are consistent with the Honolulu Board of Wate r Supply's W aters hed Management Plans (ROH Chapter 30). 
These County long-range development plans address K-12 sc hool facilities and those in potential growth 
areas support coordinated capacity planni ng, and  co-l ocation with parks and shared use facilities  with parks 
whe never feasible. Long-range planning docume nts incl ude policies that promote agriculture for the ‘Ewa,  
Ko‘olau Poko, Ko‘olau Loa, North Shor e, Wai‘anae, and Central O‘ahu regions.
The City and County of Honolulu Climate Ac tion Plan  (2020-2025) serves as a roadmap over 5 years 
aimed at reducing Honolulu’s biggest emitting sectors—t ransportation net works, building operations, and 
waste systems with 9 distinct strat egies and 47 measurable actions.
Th e O‘ahu Resilience Strategy describes key  action items to combat and prepare for the most 
devastating effects of climate change.  Core action ite ms include developing and implementing climate 
adaptation strategies and fostering a widespread un der stan ding of the threats of climate change to Hawa i‘i. 
The strategy also recommends partnerships and liaiso ns to leverag e volunteer and nonprofit assets and 
improve resilience. 
The Kaua‘i Kākou, Kaua‘i County's General Plan  was recen tly published in 2018.  The General Plan 
is based on the community's vision and goals  for Kaua‘i 's future: that Kaua‘i will be a sustainable island , a 
unique and beautiful place, a healthy and res ilient peopl e, and an equitable place with opportunity f or al l.  
The Kaua‘i County General Plan's vision of a s ustainable island describing the overarching g oal to grow 
responsibly to meet the needs of current and future  generations without depleting resources.  According 
to the General Plan, Kaua‘i residents widely agre ed that sustainability should drive the planning f or the  
future.  The Kaua‘i County General Plan explain s that  sustainable development does not endanger the 
natural systems that support life: air, wate r, soil, an d living organisms.  Sustainable development means 
meeting the basic needs of society and exte nding to all people the opportunity to satisfy their aspir ations for 
a better life.   As the plan explains, sustainable  development means integrating economic and 
environmental considerations in policy an d decision -makin g.Th e Maui Island Plan, adopted in 2012, reviews factors t hat influence the physical, social, and economic 
development of the island.  The plan addresses key environmental, housing, and economic development 
issues to provide recommendations to protect the community an d future generations.  Similarly, the West 
Maui Community Plan provides long-term vision for the com munity and is intended to serve as a policy 
guide for County agencies. 
The Lāna‘i Community Plan and the Moloka‘i Island Community Plan explore island specific 
challenges and opportunites regarding future sustainability.  The plans then provide a strategic framework 
to
 guide policies and actions needed to address the m ajor issues identified in the near future. 
The City and County of Honolulu's General Plan includes polic ies to:
• Prot
ect freshwater resources including stream retention, pollution protection, and designing surface
drainage and flood control systems in a way that will help preserve their natural settings. 
• Retain the viabilit
y of agriculture on O‘ahu including sufficient land retention, diversification, and job
creation.
• Support educa
tion for all age groups, employable skills education, research institutions, and to make
Honolulu an education center for the Pacific.
• Meet housing o
bjectives to 1) ensure a balanced mix of housing opportunities and choices for all
residents at prices they can afford, 2) minimize speculation in land and housing, and 3) provide 
residents with a choice of living environments that are close to employment, recreation, and commercial centers and are adequately served by transportation networks and public utilities.
Hawai'i 2050 Sust
 ainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    23
This section of the plan provides an overview of exi sting  
commi tments Hawai‘i has made toward each of the  17 SDGs, 
with a focus on existing laws, policies, an d strat egic plan s.  The 
list of laws, policies and plans is not exhaus tive,  but rat her  is 
intended as a representative sample demonstrat ing Hawai‘i's 
commi tment for each SDG, or its readiness to  address each  SDG 
based on existing policy structures and legal co mmit ments. 
The policy structures and legal instruments  provid e a 
framework for action.  It is also important  to consid er h ow this 
framework is being used to advance climate chan ge and 
sustainability goals, monitor results, and contin ue to  evolve 
state programs. 
This section is organized around the 17 SDGs. While presented 
as individual sections below, the 17 SDGs are interde pendent: 
imp leme nting actions under one goal can contribu te to  progress 
under many others. 
Each SDG section includes two components: OVERVIEW OF THIS NEXT 
SDG SECTION 
The Overview describes the 
importance of the SDG to the state of Hawai‘i, including Hawai‘i's challenges and opportunities associated with each SDG.Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 
summarizes the key la ws, policies, and strategic 
action plans that currently address each SD G.  
This section demonstrates Hawai‘i's 
commi tment t o the SDG and identifies relevant 
voluntary initiatives and informal targets th at 
have been set through agency policies, county  
governments, statewide initiatives, or s trate gic 
plans.1 2
 24
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    25Sustainable Development Goal 1
End poverty in all its forms everywhereNO POVERTY  
This UN goal includes targets that address: 
•Reducing extreme poverty
•Halving the number of people living in poverty
•Ensuring social protection sy
stems are in place to cover
poor and vulnerable populations
•Ensuring equal rights to economic resour
ces and
access to basic services, property, natural resources,
and technology
•Reducing vulnerability and exposure to climate-relatedextreme events and other disasters
Overview 
Many of Hawai‘i's residents struggle to afford housing, utilities, transportation, healthcare, 
and food.  Hawai‘i has the nation's highest rate of homelessness per capita, with an estimated 
15,000 homeless individuals throughout the state (State of Hawai‘i 2019).  The COVID-19 
global  pandemic has exacerbated existing economic stressors, dramatically decreased visitor 
arrivals, prompted unprecedented business closures, and increased unemployment 
throughout the state. 
 As a result, ALICE® (Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed) 
households have increased dramatically.
In addition to the stressors related to the COVID-19 global pandemic that have exacerbated 
existing economic hardships, Hawai‘i is also experiencing increased impacts from climate 
change, such as such as flooding, sea level rise, drought, and rising temperatures, that place 
further pressure on vulnerabl
e populations and communities. 
The State's most recent (2018) Self-Sufficiency Incom
e Standard estimates found that two of 
the five family composition groups (one adult, one child, and one adult, two children) were 
bel
ow self-sufficiency income needs (DBEDT 2019).  Further, limited access to broadband 
technology constrains economic access for all.
 26Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 1
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRA TEGIC PLANS  Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-22 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-Cultural Advancement—Social Services
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-106 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines for the Provision of Affordable Housing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §201-3 (a)(5): Specific 
Research and Promotional Functions of the 
Department of Business, Economic Development, 
and TourismSets objectives to improve public and private social services to enable self-reliance and 
well-being.
Prioritizes the need and access for affordable housing as a priority guideline for the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act to address as an issue of statewide concern.
Requires the Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism (DBEDT) to 
establish and biennially update self-sufficiency income standards, the amount of money individuals and families require to meet their basic needs without subsidies.
Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study (2019)  
Affordable Rental Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan (2018)
Housing Functional Plan (2017)Serves as a comprehensive assessment of housing markets in Hawai‘i to provide housing 
partners with relevant and crucial information.
Provides specific strategies, policies, and priority actions  to address the current housing 
shortage in Hawai‘i through a statewide plan ning system. Provides policymakers with a plan to achieve the afforda ble rental housing goal of 22,500 
units by December 31, 2026 laid out in Act 127 (Session  Laws of Hawai‘i 2016). 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    27
Developed a baseline of affordable rental units curren tly in the  planning stages or under 
development, implementing actions, and measures of eff ectiveness to guide achievement 
of the affordable rental housing goals.
Provides next step recommendations on ways to support affordable rental housing in the 
state.
Guides the implementation of the Hawai‘i State Plan housing goals and objectives.
Covers four priority areas, which include expanding and preserving rental housing 
opportunities, increase homeownership, addressing barriers to residential development, 
and maintaining a housing information system.
Includes clearly defined problem statements followed b y objectives, policies, implementing 
actions and accessory details such as lead organization, budget estimates, start date and 
measures of effectiveness.Defines state policy objectives for advancing opportunities f or affordable housing and the 
orderly development of residential areas sensitive to community needs and other land 
uses.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-19 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—HousingSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Volunteers from Pu‘uhonua o Puna at the hub’s food pantry distributing emergency 
food and supplies to evacuees and residents affected by the 2018 Kīlauea lava eruption.  
Photo Credit: Harry Durgin. 
Photo Right: Fissure 8, officially named Ahu‘ailā‘au, from  the 2018 Kīlauea lava eruption. 
Photo Credit: Andrew Richard Hara. 
Over 15% of Hawai‘i's 
residents living in a lava 
flow hazard zone make less than $30,000 a year (HIEMA 2018a). Low income is among the major risk factors for an individual's disaster resiliency, as are community-level components like physical infrastructure. However, community resiliency also involves another critical component: social capital. In fact, this element can be an even better predicator of efficient disaster recovery than economic characteristics (Aldrich & Meyer 2015).In May 2018, “fissure 8,” officially named “Ahu‘ailā‘au,” 
opened in the Puna district of Hawai‘i Island, marking the 
start of an unprecedented eruption in modern Hawai‘i for
 its 
size and extent of the damage (NPS 2018).  While considered an 
economically disadvantaged area, behind that economic picture 
Puna is greatly abundant in social capital, and the community's 
leverage of its interpersonal strengths was key to weathering the 
Kīlauea eruption (County of Hawai‘i 2020).  The epitome of this 
could be seen in Pu‘uhonua o Puna, or “The Hub”: a spontaneous 
organization by Puna residents to give evacuees the support they 
needed during the eruption.  Aptly named, Pu‘uhonua o Puna 
offered people a place of refuge and sense of belonging, and personal 
networks were utilized to great effect to meet almost any need as it 
arose.  An awareness of the mental and physical toll of the eruption 
led to organizing support like art and music therapy, massage, and 
healthcare screenings.  Hot meals, made by partners like World 
Central Kitchen, were offered with a flexibility suited to families. A 
mobile showering unit on loan from Project Vision gave a much-
needed place to refresh, and led to grassroots fundraising and 
purchase of a unit dedicated to Hawai‘i Island.  Underpinning 
everything was a spirit of service, generosity, and dedication as 
volunteers and evacuees alike—and oftentimes they were one and 
the same—rose up to help and support fellow community members. 
Pu‘uhonua o Puna also built up a new generation of local leadership, 
ready to apply lessons learned from The Hub to catalyze further 
capacity-building efforts.  Even two years later, this experience 
provided a template for other organizations like Vibrant Hawai‘i to 
scale the solution and deliver a COVID-19 global pandemic 
response island wide.  This shows that with a strong social network, 
communities are far more capable than pure economics would 
belie, and when given the tools and a chance, they can and will 
direct their own resiliency trajectory.
 28SUSTAINING HAWAI‘IHawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    29ZERO HUNGER  
Sustainable Development Goal 2 
End hunger
, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable agriculture
This UN goal includes targets for ending hunger, achieving 
food security, improving nutrition, and promoting sustainable 
 agriculture. 
Overview
Hawai‘i relies heavily on imported food, due to challenges associated with local food 
production (including the cost of land and labor, lack of available capital, lack of investment, 
lack of infrastructure, and competition with subsidized and/or less regulated agriculture). 
Hawai‘i imports approximately 85–90% of its food and is particularly reliant on imports for 
eggs, milk, and livestock (Office of Planning 2012).  However, the state is located thousands of 
miles from its imported food sources, which creates vulnerability at the supply-chain level.  
The COVID-19 global pandemic increased awareness of the state's heavy reliance on imported 
food.
From  an economic standpoint, it is less expensive to import food tha n to grow it locally. 
Moreover, demand for local food is limited as many consumers are not aware of the benefits of 
locally grown food or have difficulty identifying it in markets (Office of Planning 2012). 
Additionally, many residents of Hawai‘i already struggle to afford food at current prices.  This 
has been exacerbated due to the pandemic.  As of March 2021, a University of Hawai‘i study 
found that 58% of Hawai‘i families experience food insecurity, and 15% report not having 
enough food sometime or often in the previous week (Pruitt et a
l. 2021).  Furthermore, about 
370,000 (approximately 26%) of Hawai‘i residents live in food deserts, which means they live 
more than one mile (if in urban areas) or more than 10 miles (if in rural  areas) from grocery 
stores with access to fresh foods, and thus may rely more on processed or fast foods that have 
less nutritional  content (Brace et al. 2020).
Achieving this SDG will bring multiple benefits. Sustainable local food production can enhance 
the l
ivelihood of local  farmers, reduce emissions from transporting food long distances to 
Hawai‘i, and improve the resilience of communities to economic shocks such as climate-related 
storm events, public health crises, natural disasters, or other supply chain disruptions. 
Strategic capital investment and policies could address and remove some of the barriers to 
local food production (these recommendations are found on page 98 of this plan). 
 30Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 2
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-7 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and 
Policies for the Economy—Agriculture
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205, Part III: 
Important Agricultural Lands
Act 151, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019Encourages the purchase and use of locally grown food.
Assures the availability of suitable farmland with adequate water resources.Supports diversified agriculture.Increases opportunities for an agricultural education and livelihood.Increases the use of traditional Hawaiian farming systems and traditional Hawaiian crops.
Declares that the people of Hawai‘i have a substantial interest in the health and 
sustainability of agriculture as an industry in the state.
Defines important agricultural lands and protects those lands from use for 
non-agricultural purposes.
Identifies a compelling state interest in conserving the state's agricultural land resource 
base and assuring the long-term availability of agricultural lands for agricultural use.
Requires development of a strategic action plan to achieve doubling food production goal 
and equivalent consumption.
Department of Agriculture Strategic Plan to Double Local Food Production and Increase Food Exports by 2030 
Good Food for All: Advancing Health Equity through 
Hawai‘i's Food System (2018)
Office of Planning's Increased Food 
Security and Food Self-Sufficiency Strategy (2012)Will outline strategic actions to achieve  the state's doubling food production target.
Defines three strategic objectives: 
1)increase demand for and access to locally grown foods,
2)increase production of locally grown foods, and
3)provide policy and organizational support to meet food self-sufficiency needs.Identifies strategies for improving food security in Hawai‘i.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes an overarching goal to at least double local food production 
by 2030, with 20–30% of food consumed grown locally. The initiative includes five underlying indicators to support this goal.
Statewide Agricultural Land Use Baseline (2015)Updates a 1980 survey and provides current information and maps on the locations of Hawai‘i’s farms and ranches. The baseline study is intended to help industry, government and the community in making decisions that affect agriculture land use in the state.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update  
  ||    31
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
According to the USDA, 93%  
of farms in Hawai‘i were 
family-owned in 2017 (USDA 
2017b).  Hawai‘i's agricultural 
sector is predominantly small, 
family-owned farms and 
ranches, with over 60% of all 
operations making less than 
$10,000 in annual sales 
(USDA 2017b).  To meet the 
State's target of doubling local 
food production by 2030, 
much work will be needed to 
support these families in 
scaling up production.Agriculture is particularly prominent on Hawai‘i Islan d, 
wh ose farms make up nearly half of all state agric ultur al 
sales (USDA 2017a).  Thus, when the COVID-19 global pandemic 
left agricultural producers hard-hit, the Co unty of Hawai‘i 
partnere d with the Hawai‘i Farm Bureau to create t he Big Island 
Rura l Agricultural Industries Distribution and  Grow ing En terprise 
Strateg ies (BRIDGES) Program: a dual-focus prog ram to  address 
the burgeoning food insecurity while su pportin g the  island's 
agricultural industry (Truesdale 2021).  T he program r eceived 
funding  from the County of Hawai‘i, private donors, an d fed eral 
CA RES funding to keep producers on the island growin g while 
securing  food for families impacted by the pandemic (T ruesdale 
2021).  To provide more assistance to the comm uni ty, th e State 
of Hawa i‘i temporarily expanded the “DA BUX” ( Double Bucks) 
program—which matches SNAP recipients‘ dollars  up to $10 a  
day whe n buying local produce—and doubled this matc h to $25 a 
day and included the purchase of local ground bee f and egg s 
(Ulupono Initiative 2020).  Although both B RIDGE S and the DA 
BUX  expansion ended in December 2020, SB 512 was pas sed during 
the  2021 Legislative Session to provide a permanent r evis ion of the 
DA BUX program which removes the dollar-amount cap and all ows 
for local healthy proteins to be added to the pro gram's  eligibi lity list 
(Hawai‘i State Legislature 2021a).*   The  success and popularity of 
the se programs garnered awareness to ensure equitab le food acces s, 
as well as highlighted the importance of incr eas ing mar ket demand 
for local agricultural products in order to ach ieve the  State's 
sustainability target to double local food pro ductio n by 2030.
Photo Left: Tomato farm on Hawai‘i  Island.  Photo Credit: Hawai‘i  Farm Bureau. 
Photo Right: Farm-to-Table produce farm in Waimea, Hawai‘i  Island. 
Photo Credit: State of H awai‘i , Hawai‘i  Tourism Authority. 
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
and transmitted to the Governor for consideration.
 32Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    33
GOOD HEALTH
AND WELL-BEING
Sustainable Developmen t Goal 3 
Ensur
e healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
UN targets related to this goal include: 
•Reducing the negative impacts of environment
al factors on health
•Combating communicable and non-communicable diseases through
improv
ed and expanded prevention, and the support of research and
development for vaccines and medicines
•Achieving universal healthcare cov
erage and access to essential
healthcare services
•Expanding the availability of mental health resources, substanceabuse treatment, and sexual and reproductive healthcare services
Overview
Hawai‘i is often considered one of the healthiest states in the nation, in part due to high public 
health funding, air quality, and low prevalence of obesity relative to the rest of the United States.  
In addition, Hawai‘i's Prepaid Health Care Act of 1974 increased access to affordable, quality 
heal
thcare.  Less than 4% of Hawai‘i's residents lack health insurance.  However, this rate increases 
for Native Hawaiians to about 15% (Creamer 2019a).  Upwards of 25% of non-Hawaiian Pacific 
Islanders were without health insurance as of 2013 (DOH 2020).  A recent federal law was passed 
through the COVID-19 Economic Relief legislation signed in 2020, which reinstated that citizens of 
the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau are entitled to federal Medicaid 
coverage, throughout the U.S., and especially in Hawai‘i (Public Law 116-260).  This expanded 
community access to healthcare services during the COVID-19 pandemic, and assisted Hawai‘i-
based community healthcare providers to deliver additional  treatment to these vulnerable 
communities.
Other health disparities have been documented across socioecono
mic groups in Hawai‘i.  The 
federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that residents of Hawai‘i living in high-
income zip codes have average lifespans about 10 years longer than those living in low-income zip 
codes (DOH  2020).
Widespread health challenges remain, particularly the high rates of diabetes. About half of 
Hawai‘i's residents are at risk of developing diabetes or currently have it (DOH 2020).  This 
is tied in part to the issues described under SDG 2 above: food security is an issue for 58% of 
Hawai‘i residents (Pruitt et al. 2021).  Additionally, residents who receive food assistance through 
Hawai‘i's emergency food relief system often receive donated foods that have high levels of fat and 
sugar and poor nutritional quality, impacting residents who receive food assistance (Creamer 
2019a). 
Other health challenges include lack of access to mental health services, rising e-cigarette use by 
youth, public heal
th impacts from climate change (such as heavy rain, flooding, sea level rise, and 
hurricanes), and poor diet and exercise trends.  There is also a dearth of detox facilities to help 
treat those with drug- and alcohol-related disorders (DOH 2020).  Notably, Hawai‘i was ranked 
among the 10 worst states in the United Health Foundation 2018 Report in two categories: 
excessive drinking and Tdap (Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis) immunizations (Creamer 2019b).
 34Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 3
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-20 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural A
dvancement—Health
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 321—
Department of Health Includes provisions for improving access t o physical and mental health treatment, 
including substance abuse, preventing contamination by pesticides and hazardous 
substances, and reducing health disparities among disproportionately affected 
demographics.
Directs the development of environmental goals and objectives to ensure that air quality, 
land, coastal waters, inland waters, and groundwater are protected.  
(§321-1.1: Development of environmental goals and objectives)
Organizes environmental protection programs to improve the coordination of 
environmental planning and oversight. (§321- 1.1: Development of environmental goals 
and objectives)
Outlines the powers, duties, and functions of the Department of Health relating to 
preventative medicine (§321-31), dental health needs (§321-62), nutrition training and 
education (§321-81), children's mental health services (§321-171), substance abuse 
prevention, rehabilitation, treatment, education, and research (§321-193), and maternal 
and child health (§321-321), among other areas.
State Health Improvement Plan, Healthy 
Hawai‘i 2
020: A Community Health Plan 
(2020)
2016-2020 Tobacco Use Prevention and 
Control in Hawai‘i: Five-Year Strategic 
Plan (2016)
Hawai‘i Coordinated Chronic Disease 
Framework Plan (2014)
Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Pla n 
(2013)Includes goals, strategies, and actions that address health and well-being, disease 
prevention, healthy lifestyles, healthy environment, and physical and mental healthcare.
Identifies community health needs of Hawai‘i communities with special attention paid to 
health disparities and the needs of vulnerable populations.
Identifies an integrated approach and is meant to be used as a guide to enable 
coordination o
f multiple programs across common risk factors, interventions, 
and strategies.
Identifies priority objectives to integrate physical activity and nutrition into the daily lives 
of the people of Hawai‘i.Identifies the priority populations, people using tobacco at the highest rate in Hawai‘i, and 
measurable objectives to achieve by 2020. 
Outlines strategies, recommended community activities and targeted outputs, and key 
outcome indicators to measure progress towards achieving health equity.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  Partnerships with the State and community-based health care providers have contributed 
to
 the delivery of a broad range of services at schools including co-located health 
centers, skilled nursing, immunization clinics, and screening events to address student 
health needs.  Primary prevention strategies to develop student skills, knowledge, and 
positive health behaviors are reinforced by the Wellness Guidelines and include nutritious 
school meal programs, comprehensive health education, and standards-based physical 
education programs (DOE 2021). Educational attainment has also been shown to 
improve public health and health equity.
Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030 (202 0) Serves as a ten year strategic plan to prevent and reduce the burden of chronic disease in 
Hawai‘i and reinforces the following chronic disease prevention and management strategic 
plans for the state: Hawai‘i Asthma Plan 2030,  Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030, Hawai‘i 
Diabetes Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Heart Disease and Stroke Plan 2030, Hawai‘i Physical 
Activity and Nutrition Plan 2030, and the Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 
2030.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    35
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
There are 322.6 practicing 
doctors in Hawai‘i for  
ev
ery 100,
000 people 
(HRSA 2020). Although 
Hawai‘i is a top-ranked 
state in this regard, the fact 
remains that healthcare 
providers ar
e distributed 
unevenly acros
s the state 
and not everyone can afford 
healthcare (HRSA 2020, 
KFF 2019).  Increasing 
physical and financial 
access to healthcare for all 
residents will need to be a 
continued priority to ensure 
a sustainable Hawai‘i.As the island's only Federally Qualified Health 
Center, Lāna‘i Community Health Center serves as a 
cor nerstone of continued efforts to provide healthcare 
services to Lāna‘i's residents (HRSA 2021).  Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center's goal is to pr
ovide “culturally 
sensitive, holistic, patient-centered” care, offering services like 
language translation, behavioral health, obstetrics, internet 
access, and assistance in applying for public benefits.  As a 
Feder
ally Qualified Health Center, these s
ervices are available 
for everyone regardles
s of their ability to pay for medical care. 
In a place with very limited medical facilities—the island 
only has one ambulance and four beds in its emergency room 
at Lāna‘i Community Hospital—and considering that over 
three-fifths of Lāna
‘i Community Health Center's pa
tients 
are low-income, having affordable access to primary and 
specialty health services and assistance in navigating the 
healthcare system is paramount
 for community members (Wu 
2020, Meyers 2020, Lāna‘i Community Health Center 2020). 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center further expands its reach 
to patients through its telehealth program, for which it has 
been nationally recognized, and pr
oviding educ
ation to the 
community on important wellness topics in an approachable, 
culturally sensitive way (Lāna‘i Community Health Center 
2020, HIMSS 2018).  During the COVID-19 global pandemic, 
coordinating and managing patient care became even more 
imperative to avoid overwhelming Lāna‘i's medical system. 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center work
ed together with the 
other Lāna‘i medical agencies to provide COVID-19 testing and 
vaccine distribution, assisted with contact tr
acing challenges
, 
and provided community education and translated outreach 
materials to increase vaccine buy-in (Grossman 2021). 
 Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center was also designa
ted to receive 
COV ID-19 vaccine doses to increase access for underserved 
populations, and by June 2021, Lāna‘i Community Health 
Center and other providers were able to provide COVID-19 
vaccinations to nearly 70% of the island's population (KITV 
2021, Cerizo 2021, U.S. Census Bureau 2011).  Lāna‘i's vaccine 
campaign demonstrated the impact of targ
eted resources 
delivered through trusted, local organizations, and although 
health inequalities still persist for Lāna‘i's residents, Lāna‘i 
Community Health Center remains committed to bringing 
care to and advocating for the needs of its patients in order to 
reduce those disparities.
Photo Left: Volunteers at Lāna‘i community COVID-19 vaccine distribution event.
Photo Credit: Lāna‘i Community Health Center. 
Photo Right: Lāna‘i Community Health Center, Lāna‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: Lāna‘i Community Health Center. 
 36Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    37QUALITY EDUCATION
Sustainable Development Goal 4
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities for all 
This UN goal promotes widespread “inclusive and equitable” 
education and educational opportunities for all ages and involves 
targets that address: 
•Achieving widespread literacy and numeracy
•Ensuring the equal access of all genders, abilities, and racial and
ethnic backgr
ounds to quality pre-primary, primary, secondary, and
tertiary education including technical school, vocational training,and university
•
Educating all learners with the knowledge and skills necessary topromot
e sustainable development
•Improving access to quality education by upgrading learningfacilities to be inclusive to all, increasing the number of qualifiedteachers, and expanding the number of scholarships available todeveloping countries
Overview
Measures of educational quality and performance from Hawai‘i's Every Student Succeeds A ct 
(ESSA) report show disparities between racial and socioeconomic subgroups of students, 
with Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, disabled, economically disadvantaged, English l earner, 
homeless, and students in foster care showing lower proficiencies in language arts, 
mathematics, and science; lower graduation rates; lower col lege-going rates; and higher 
chronic absenteeism rates than the average “
all students” group or their white counterparts 
(DOE 2020b).  However, National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) scores and 
other measures of academic success (e.g., the number of Advanced Placement exam takers, 
percent of 12th graders completing a Career and Technical Education program of study, etc.) 
have shown improvement in recent years (2016–2019) (DOE 2020a). 
To continue improvement, major focuses for this goal are on improving teacher recruitment 
and retention and increasing revenue sources for secondary education.
The challenge of providing both remote and in-person K-12 instruction when the COVID-19 
global pandemic struck Hawai‘i highlighted the increased need for broadband connectivity 
and d igital equity throughout the state.
 38Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 4
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-21 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—Education
The University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
The University of Hawai‘i Executive Policy 
4.202: System Sustainability
State of Hawai‘i Board of Education – K-12 
Literacy Policy 102-2
State of Hawai‘i Board of Education- 
Sustainability Policy 301-9Outlines educational priorities within the  state, in cluding accessible educational 
opportunities.
Includes targets to:
Increase the educational capital of the state by increasing the participation and completion 
of students, particularly Native Hawaiians, low- income students and those from 
underserved regions and populations and prepa ring them for success in the workforce and 
their communities.
Increase the percentage of working age adu lts with two-or four- year degrees to 55% by 
2025.
Requires the university system to develop goals, metrics,  and plans that address a 
comp rehensive sustainability strategy in operat ions, curr iculum, research and 
scholarship, campus and community engagement, and cultural connections.
Defines the literacy standards all studen ts must mee t to be deemed literate.
Dicta tes that schools must provide a “balanced and compr ehensive reading and writing 
program.”
Mandates schools have an effective early rea ding and writing program, and that students 
ident ified by the department as not proficient re ceive  necessa ry assistance and support.
Mandates the department to establish regulat ions and guidelines that include 
incorporating the importance of sustainability and e nvironmental stewardship at the 
classroom level.
Hawai‘i State Literacy Plan: 2020 (2020)
Hawai‘i State Department of Education and 
Board of Education Strategic Plan: 2017–
2020 (2016)
Hawai‘i Green Workforce: A Baseline 
Assessment (2010)Developed in partnership with state, university system , and community organizations. 
Provides comprehensive guidance and best pract ices for enhancing literacy across 
the state.
Provides a framework for assessing gre en jobs in the private sector.
Defines green jobs as those that engage in at least o ne of five core green areas: (1) 
Generate clean, renewable, sustainable energy; (2) Re duce  pollution and waste, 
conserve natural resources, recycle; (3) Energy e fficien cy; (4) Education, training 
and support of a green workforce; and (5) Natural,  environmen tally-friendly 
production.Outlines specific goals, objectives, and actions to pursue educational goals in the state 
through 2020, including:
Increase Hawai‘i's graduation rate to 90% by 2025, which would make the state's on-time 
graduation rate one of the highest in the nation.
Ensure 55% of working age adults (25–64 years o ld) have a  two- or four-year college 
degree by the year 2025. This is supported by the Hawai‘i P-2 0 Partnerships for 
Education.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes multiple ed ucation-related goals to be achieved by 2030. 
These include ensuring access to inclusive, qu ality educat ion for all people, providing 
learner-driven educational experiences that ensure all lea rners acquire the knowledge and 
skills needed to thrive and build a sustainable  future; providing ‘¯aina-based education and 
stewardship opportunities that foster conn ectio n to land, ‘ohana, and communities; and 
creating pathways for local-global servant lead ership. 
The State of Hawai‘i's Department of Labor and Indu strial Relations developed the Hawai‘i 
Green Jobs Initiative and accompanying porta l, which provides services for job seekers 
and employers as well as access to green trainin g programs (DLIR 2021). 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    39
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike's three  core  programs include Māla ma Hāloa, Mahele Farm, and 
its foundational Building Program; each aptly equipped to provide vocational training and 
educational opportunities to Hāna youth.  Photo Credit : Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike.
Photo Right: Hāna Town and Hāna Bay of the is lan d of Maui. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i To urism Au thority .
Fro m 2013 to 2017, 48.4% of 
Haw ai‘i-born residents who 
moved out-of-state did so for 
job-related reasons (DBEDT 
2021a).  This phenomenon, 
known as “brain drain,” is 
especially prevalent in younger 
residents, and while the causes 
of outmigration are varied, 
evide nce suggests that the types 
and ava ilability of jobs outside 
of Hawai‘i are a prime factor 
(DBEDT 2021a). 
Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike (in 
wor king one learns) is the ‘Ōlelo 
No‘e au for the current da y 
educational term describing 
“expe riential learning.”  Based 
in Hāna, Maui, Ma Ka Hana 
Ka ‘Ike is also a nonprofit 
prov iding youth vocational 
training through construction 
and agriculture apprenticeship 
programs and a lo‘i restoration 
and ku‘i kalo program. Commu nity needs and the interests of apprentice s guid e the 
specific projects within each program.  Past  undertak ings 
include constructing “age-in-place” modification s to kū puna 
homes, restoring once productive agricult ural landscap es 
for community wellbeing and sustenance, and ongoing 
revitalization of cultural and place-based pr actices, including 
‘ōlelo Hawai‘i and Hāna regionalisms.  Even afte r the COVID-19 
global pandemic shut down in-person train ing, Ma Ka Hana 
Ka ‘Ike adapted, and apprentices directe d their ow n at-home  
projects (with virtual support from organization s taff ) to 
take ownership of their role in their famil ies' well-b eing. 
Furthe rmore, even though some effects of the pandem ic were 
tempered by Hāna's robust subsistence economy and t ight-
knit culture, unmet needs remained and Ma Ka Han a Ka ‘ Ike 
wor ked with partners to provide for them, incl udin g through 
foo d distribution and a Certified Nursing Assi stant trai ning 
program.  In sum, the organization's focus is  on foste ring 
service, connection to community, and self-esteem in 
apprentices through community capacity-building, wh ile giving 
them marketable skills and introduction to career path ways for 
success.  In a tourism-heavy economy, this exposur e to oth er job 
fields—and linking such jobs to community needs—em powe rs 
apprentices to direct their own futures and th at of t heir  home. 
Many apprentices remain in or return to Hāna after finishing 
their apprenticeships, with several becoming appre ntice 
trainers themselves and other leaders in  the commun ity. 
Hence , Ma Ka Hana Ka ‘Ike demonstrates the suc cess of 
investing in community to sustain community, and t he strength 
of a community's ties to one another is key to its re siliency.
 40Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    41Sustainable Development Goal 5 
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girlsGENDER EQUALITY
UN targets to achieve gender equality and empower women include: 
•Ending all forms of discrimination and violence against womene
verywhere in both public and private spheres
•Supporting women's meaningful participation in all levels o
f
decision-making in political, economic, and public life
•Ensuring equal access for women to property owner
ship, financial
services, economic resources, and technological resources topromote empowerment of women
•
Certifying universal access to sexual and reproductive healthcareand reproductive rights as agreed to in accordance with theProgramme of Action of the International Conference onPopulation and Development and the Beijing Platform for action
Overview
Gender equality in Hawai‘i has advanced in recent years.  Hawai‘i has the second-highest 
gender earnings ratio out of all  states and ranks eighth in the United States for the number 
of women el
ected to office (AAUW 2020).  While better than the national  average, women in 
Hawai‘i make about 83 cents for every dollar earned by men and about 9% of women in 
Hawai‘i live in poverty (NWLC 2021).
Native Hawaiian women are particularly vulnerable to inequalities.  They have the highest 
rates of infant mortality in Hawai‘i, high rates of post-partum depression, high health risks 
such as obesity and cancer, and lower levels of business ownership compared with other 
demographics (OHA 2018).  Further, pay equity remains an issue: Native Hawaiian women 
earn 70 cents for every dollar a man makes and 79 cents for every dollar a Native Hawaiian 
man makes (Commission on the Status of Women 2020). 
The Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women notes in Hawai‘i's first report on 
sex trafficking survivors that sex trafficking is a problem of significant concern.  Survivors 
of sex trafficking may be disproportionately Native Hawaiian women and girls due to land 
dispossession, exposure to sexual  violence, cultural dislocation, intergenerational trauma, and 
ongoing inequities (ASU 2019).
Women's wellbeing and livelihoods in Hawai‘i were particularly at risk during the COVID-19 
global  pandemic.  Women have been disproportionately impacted during the pandemic as 
increased demands for caregiving, childc
are, and household services have fallen more on the 
shoulders of women.  Recent national  statistics report women represented 60% of workers 
that were laid off due to the pandemic.  Women in Hawai‘i are at the forefront of impacted 
industries s
uch as tourism and other service industries, which indicates the national 
unemployment trends by gender are likely to apply in Hawai‘i.  The global  pan demic has 
exacerbated these existing stressors on women.  Additionally, women have experienced 
increased incidence of domestic violence, sex trafficking, sexual  harassment, coercion by 
landlords, and interruptions to health services (Commission on the Status of Women 2020).
 42Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 5
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 
(b)(16): Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives a nd
Policies for the Economy—In General
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-24: Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-cultural 
Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal Well-Being
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil Rights 
Commission
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 378: Employment 
PracticesSets goal to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of Hawai‘i's 
population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objective to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of every 
individual and assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and other public 
services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in society. 
Prevents discrimination on the basis of race,  color, religion, age, sex, including gender 
identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or 
disability in employment, housing, public accommodations, or access to services 
receiving state financial assistance.
Prevents discriminatory practices, includin g on the basis of sex. 
A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for 
COVID-19 (2020)
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Annual 
Reports (2020)
Haumea: Transforming the Health of Native 
Hawaiian Women and Empowering Wāhine 
Well-Being (2019)Lays out a framework to re-examine the st atus quo to value unpaid work and 
address other key issues for gender equality in Hawai‘i.
Examines history and strategies for progress f or Native Hawaiian women on the 
basis of mental and emotional wellness, physical health, mother
hood, partner 
violence and incarceration, economic well-being, and leadership and civic 
engagement. Annual report on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong state civil rights laws by rebuilding 
capacity, m
aintaining, and restoring resources for state civil rights law enforcement. 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    43
Outlaws disciminatory actions that deny, or attempt to deny, a person full and equal 
enjoyment of publicly available goods, resources, and accomodations.
Identifies and outlaws discriminatory practices related to real estate transactions.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 489: Discrimination in 
Public Accommodations 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 515: Discrimination in 
Real Property TransactionsSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
A March 2021 University 
of Hawai‘i study found that during the COVID-19 global pandemic, 58% of Hawai‘i families with children were food insecure, with 15% reporting that they did not have enough food in the past week.  This study also identified that food insecurity impacts were more significant for low-income families, and households in rural areas.  The study further found that 76% of families who identified as food insecure lost employment due to the COVID-19 global pandemic. Wai‘ana e Coast  Comprehensive Health Center is one of 
several organizations tackling food insecur ity in O‘ahu.   
With their “food is medicine” philosophy, Wai ‘anae Coast 
Comprehensive Health Center sought to increas e Wai‘ anae Coast 
commu nities’ access to nutritious foods for al l bud gets throug h 
initiatives such as the “Double Bucks” Mākek e Farmer s Market 
program for EBT/SNAP recipients, local produce prescriptio ns for 
patients with nutrition-related chronic dise ases, and Ke iki Food 
Pantries.  Their work fills a critical ne ed: e ven prior t o the COVID-19 
global pandemic, food insecurity was a significant  concern fo r the 
Wai ‘anae Coast, and the health center distrib uted 2 50,000 pounds of 
food in 2019.  However, due to impacts from t he COVID -19  global 
pandemic, 2,400,000 pounds of food were distribute d in  March-
Decem ber 2020 alone—nearly a tenfold increase.  Th is in creased 
commu nity need caused the Wai‘anae Coast Compreh ensive He alth 
Center to include a larger warehouse facility to pro vide additional 
commu nity assistance and provide food preservat ion an d storag e 
capabilities.  This increased capacity was m ade possible due to 
suppor t from private donors such as Honu‘apo and No 
Kid Hungry, federal CARES funding, and long-stan din g par tnerships 
with local farmers, the Hawai‘i Foodbank, and th e Hawai‘i F ood 
Service Alliance.  To further address com mu nity food  insecurity and 
resiliency challenges, Wai‘anae Coast Comprehen sive  He alth Cente r 
plans to establish an emergency food storag e facil ity on the Wai‘anae 
Coast, although these plans were paused to focus o n the d emands  
brought on by the COVID-19 global pandemic. 
Photo Left: Community food distribution to fa milie s in  need of food assistance during the 
COV ID-19 global pandemic.  Photo Credit: Wai‘ana e Co ast Com prehe nsive Health Center. 
Photo Right: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
Photo Credit: Wai‘anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center. 
 44Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    45CLEAN WATER
AND SANITATION
Sustainable Developmen t Goal 6
Ensur
e availability and sustainable management of water and 
sanitation for all
This UN goal is to ensure the availability and sustainable 
management of water and sanitation for all and includes targets that 
address the following: 
•Achieving universal continuous access to saf
e drinking water and
sanitation by promoting water-use efficiency and sustainable
water withdrawals
•Integrating smart water re
source management at all levels
•Increasing water use efficiency across sectors
Overview
The State of Hawai‘i's Commission on Water Resources Management and the Department of 
Health's Clean Water Branch, Safe Drinking Water Branch, and Wastewater Branch work to 
protect surface and ground water qual ity in Hawai‘i.  Ground water is the primary source of 
Hawai‘i residents' drinking water.  The qual
ity of surface water protects and maintains 
natural e cosystems for shellfish, fish, and other wildlife, and allows for recreational activities 
near w ater sources, particularly important for the tourism industry in Hawai‘i.  Surface water 
also p rovides about 5% of Hawai‘i's drinking water supply.  In 2018, 100% of Hawai‘i's 
residents and
 visitors were served drinking water that fell below all maximum contaminant 
levels, and the c ompliance rates consistently exceed 95% (DOH 2019b). 
The Wastewater Branch is working toward the upgrade and elimination of cesspools. 
Cesspools
 release untreated domestic wastewater, nitrogen, and phosphorus, which can 
cause health i ssues, negative impacts to water quality, and harm to aquatic ecosystems such 
as coral reefs.  A s of 2019, there were approximately over 88,000 cesspools that pose a risk to 
Hawai‘i's water r esources (DOH 2019b).
In Hawai‘i, clean water concerns also relate to the exercise of traditional and customary 
Native
 Hawaiian practices.  Traditional and customary practices that depend on adequate 
flow (of both surface and ground waters) range from drinking water from natural sources, the 
gathering of
 stream species (like ‘o‘opu, ‘ōpae, and hı̄hı̄wai), practicing aquaculture in natural 
and modified pools and fishponds (loko i‘a), irrigation of taro (kalo) in flooded fields and 
other crops, and the use of water in ceremonial practices.  These depend on healthy water 
(e.g., sufficient volume, free from contaminants, and suitable temperature).
 46Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 6
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-15: Objectives and 
Policies for Facility Systems—Solid and Liquid Wastes
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-16 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—Water
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §174C-31(g)(6): Hawai‘i 
Water Plan Objectives
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342D-72: Cesspools; 
Mandatory Upgrade, Conversion, or Connection
Act 169, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016: Relating to 
Water Audits
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 174: State 
Water CodeDescribes wastewater treatment requirements for the state.
Covers sustainable water management, including wastewater/runoff reuse, water for 
agricultural use, and water conservation.
Requires that 100% of State and County facilities recycle water by 2045, with the exception 
of potable and drinking water.
Requires the conversion of all cesspools by 2050.
Requires standardized annual water audits of public water systems, and the Commission 
of Water Resource Management shall provide technical assistance.
Outlines a program of comprehensive water resources planning to address the problems of 
supply and conservation of water for purposes such as domestic uses, aquaculture uses, 
irrigation and other agricultural uses, power development, and commercial and industrial 
uses, with adequate provisions for the protection of t raditional and customary Hawaiian 
rights, and the protection of fish and wildlife, ecological balance, and scenic beauty. 
Protects reservations of water for current and foreseeable development and use of water 
by DHHL, consistent with Section 221 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act. Current 
and foreseeable uses are part of the reservation and are  required to have the full 
protections of being a Public Trust use of water. (HRS §174C-101(a)).
All Water Use Permits issued in Water Management Areas are subject to the rights of the 
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL) as provided in section 221 of the Hawaiian 
Homes Commission Act (§174C-49(a)(7)).
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Department of Health (DOH) State Health 
Improvement Plan, Healthy Hawai‘i 2020: A 
Community Health Plan. Environmental Health 
(2020)State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource 
Management (CWRM) Hawai‘i Water Plan (2021)
CWRM Water Resource Protection Plan Update 
(2019)
DOH Water Quality Plan (2019) State Water Projects Plan (2020) 
HDOA Agricultural Water Use and Development 
Plan (2019) 
The Rain Follows the Forest (2011)Hawa i‘i Water Conservation Plan (2013) Includes a goal to increase the percent of community water systems that provide drinking 
water that meets all applicable health-based drinking wat er standards to 99%.
Includes goals to increase the percentage of wastewater treatment plants in full compliance 
to 95% and increase the percentage of water reuse to 20%.
The objective of this plan is to protect and sustain ground and surface water resources, 
watersheds, and natural stream environments statewide. Such protection requires a 
comprehensive study of occurrence, sustainability, conservation, augmentation, and 
other resource management measures.
Outlines the regulations, standards, and resource management policies that define 
the quality to be maintained in ground- and surface-water resources.Provides a framework for planning and implementation  of water development programs to 
meet projected demands for State projects over a 20-year planning horizon. 
Provides a long-range management plan that assesses state  and private 
agricultural water use, supply and irrigation water systems. The plan is intended to 
be a master irrigation inventory plan which identifies system rehabilitation needs 
and prioritizes system repair. 
Identifies priority watersheds and outlines on-the-gr ound actions and projects 
required to protect and sustain Hawai‘i’s critical water sources.Identifies and implements water use and delivery efficiency measures to 
conserve the fresh water resources of the state.Consists of five discrete plans that each serve as guidance for the commission. 
DOH Water Reuse Task Force Report (2019) Identifies barriers and solutions to expanding water reuse in the state of Hawai‘i.
County Water Use and Development Plans These plans are prepared by each county to inventory all projected water demands 
within the county and ensure that the future water needs of the county are met. These 
county plans should set forth the allocation of water to land use in that county and 
maintain consistency with county zoning and land use policies. The plans serve to inform 
future land use planning and provide guidance to the Commission for decision-making 
on water allocations and water reservation requests.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    47
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
It's estimated Hawai‘i 
will need 529 million 
gallons of fresh water a 
day from its aquifers in 
2030 (Hawai‘i Community 
Foundation 2015).  Fresh 
water is a critical resource 
on an island, something 
Kānaka Maoli have long 
known and respected in 
their traditional laws, 
community organization, 
and religious beliefs.  To 
ensure the sustainability 
of our island communities, 
similar care must be taken 
to protect freshwater 
sources, particularly as water 
security is being challenged 
by a growing population, 
aging water infrastructure, 
pollution, invasive species, 
and climate change.As the largest groundwater user on O‘ahu, the Honolulu 
Board of Water Supply is aware of this kuleana to conserve 
water  supplies (Board of Water Supply 2016).  Their 2016 
Water Master Plan is one of several BWS initiatives to ensure they 
can provide water sustainably.  They are also part of the Hawai‘i 
Fresh Water Initiativ
e, a collaboration of government, academic, 
nonprofit, and private sector organizations to address water 
security.  Based on the Hawai‘i Fresh Water Initiative's findings in 
their 2016 Blueprint for Action, the Honolulu Board of Water Supply 
aligned their Water Master Plan priorities with the Hawai‘i Fresh 
Water Initiative's recommended focus areas: water conservation, 
aquifer recharge, and wastewater reuse.  Examples of this in the 
Water Master Plan include a proactiv
e leak detection team to reduce 
water loss, continued commitment to eight watershed partnerships 
(to prot
ect water from mauka to makai), and plans to expand the 
capacity of the Honouliuli Wastewater Recycling Facility to at least 
16 million gallons a day.  The Honolulu Board of Water Supply 
also utilizes a stakeholder advisory group for community feedback 
and representation.  This group's input was responsible for the 
inclusion of a dedicated water supply sustainability section in 
the plan.  Together, this comprehensive planning and community 
involvement furthers to provide safe water for O‘ahu's residents.
Photo Left: Recycled water is delivered to users through a system of pipes separat e from the drinking wate r distribution 
system.  It is safe for human contact, but it is not inten ded for drinking.  All pipes and fixtures using rec ycled water are easily 
identifiable by their distinc tive purple color.  Photo Credit: City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply. 
Photo Right: A watershed is a diverse and highly organ ized ecosystem which spe cializes in the capturing of  rai n and 
atmospheric moisture fro m the air and sky.  They are usually located in high mountains or valleys, which  then divert the 
water into rivers and st reams.  Watersheds are compose d of several layers of dense vegetation.  O‘ahu's w atershed can also 
be described as a Hawaii an rain forest, which captures an d saves large amount s of water.  
Photo Credit: City and County of Honolulu Board of Water S upply.  
 48Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    49AFFORDABLE AND 
CLEAN ENERGY
Sustainable Dev elopmen
t Goal 7
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy 
for all
The objective of this UN goal is to ensure universal access to 
“reliable, sustainable and modern energy services .” Targets to achieve 
this goal include: 
•Promoting investment in ener
gy infrastructure and clean energy
technology, with particular emphasis on least developed countries
•Improving global energy efficiency
•Increasing the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix
The energy sector is the largest source of e missions 
in Hawai‘i, accounting for 87% of t otal emissions. 
Emissions from transportation a ccounted for the 
largest share of energy sector e missions in 2016. 
Emissions from stationary energy c ombustion are the 
second largest source of energy s ector emissions, 
driven largely by emissions from e lectric power 
plants, petroleum refineries, and industry. 
While decarbonizing the electricity sector will g reatly 
reduce Hawai‘i's dependence on imported o il, 
electrification of the transportation sector 
and investments in alternative vehicle fuels are 
required for a complete shift away from fossil fuels 
for energy and transportation.  Ensuring local, 
renewable sources of energy will not only lower 
energy costs for end-users in all sectors of the 
economy, but also increase Hawai‘i's long-te rm 
energy security.
In regard to energy efficiency in buildings, Hawai‘i scored 16th in state efficiency and 7th in net 
incremental  electricity savings nationwide on the 2019 State Energy Efficiency Scorecard published by 
the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy.  The State passed minimum efficiency standards 
that help residents in Hawai‘i save money on utility bills.  However, there is still room to improve in 
developing policies for state government initiatives, transportation, low-income programs, energy 
efficiency program funding and spending, and codes and standards.
*At the date of publication, the bills from the  2021 legisla tive session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature 
and transmitted to the Governor for consideratio n.Overview
Ensuring affordable, reliable, clean, renewable, and sustainable energy is critical, due to Hawai‘i's 
isolated location and vulnerability to fluctuating energy prices and supply disruptions.  Hawai‘i d epends 
more on imported petroleum for its energy needs than any other state and has the highest
 average 
retail price of electricity in the nation given the state's lack of domestic oil, natural gas, or c oal 
resources.  In 2018, petroleum accounted for roughly 84% of Hawai‘i's energy consumption (see Figure 
1), compared to about 1% for the United States as a whole.  In Hawai‘i, the air transportation s ector 
accounts for the highest percentage of petroleum use, largely due to the tourism industry
 and the 
military, followed by ground transportation.  In 2021, HB 683* passed the Hawai‘i State L egislature to 
create a sustainable aviation fuel program within the Hawai‘i Technology Devel
opment C orporation to 
provide matching grants to Hawai‘i small business developing products related to s ustainable aviation 
fuel or greenhouse gas reduction from commercial aviation operations.
Petroleum  
84.4%Renewable  
Energy  
10.6%Coal  
4.9%
Natural 
Gas 
.1%
Source: HSEO (2020) Notes: Renewables includ e 
biomass, hydroelectric power, and other renewabl e 
sources such as solar and wind. Petroleum inc lude s 
jet fuel, residual fuel, distillate fuel oil, HGL, a nd 
other petr oleum sources.
Figure 1: Hawai‘i Energy Consumption by Source in 2018 
 50Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 7
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-10: Hawai‘i 
Renewable Hydrogen ProgramHawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-18 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—Energy
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §196-9: Energy Efficiency and 
Environmental Standards for State Facilities, Motor 
Vehicles, and Transportation Fuel
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-5: Zero Emissions 
Clean Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-92: Renewable 
Portfolio Standards
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §269-96: Energy 
Efficiency Portfolio Standards
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §302A-1510(a): 
Sustainable Schools Initiative
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §304A-119: UH Net-Zero 
Energy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71: Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions LimitsDetails objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth. 
Policies to achieve these objectives include p
romoting renewable energy development and 
accelerating the development of new energy-related industries based on wind, solar, 
ocean a nd underground resources.
Ensures the short- and long-term provision of adequate, reasonably priced, dependable 
energy services to accommodate demand.
Includes policies to achieve the objectives 
of an energy system that is secure, dependable, 
affordable, and contributes to the reduction of GHG emissions from energy supply. 
Policies include supporting the development of renewable energy sources, adopting 
energy-efficient practices, and promoting alternative fuels.   
Requires state agencies incorporate and implement energy-efficiency measures, 
and e nergy e
fficient equipment in state facilities. 
Sets a statewide target to sequester more atmo sphe ric car bon and GHGs than emitted within 
the state as quickly as practicable, but no later th an 2045 .
Achieve a 100% renewable portfolio standard (RPS) b y 2045 and a 40% RPS by 2030.
Requires the Public Utilities Commission to establish energ y-efficient portfolio standards, 
including a 30% reduction in energy use by 2030 through energy efficiency.
Achieve net-zero energy use in all public scho ol facilities by 2035.
Achieve net-zero energy use at all University of Hawai‘i campuses by 2035.
Ensure the short-and-long-term provision of adequate, r easonably priced, dependable 
energy  services to accommodate demand.
Limited statewide GHG emissions to be equal to or below 1990 levels by 
2020, excluding emissions from airplanes.
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i State Energy Office's Annual 
Report (2020) 
Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Plan (2016)
The Department of Hawaiian Home Land's 
Ho‘omaluā Energy Policy (2011)Identifies priority objectives and policies relating to clean energy, energy resilience, 
renewable energy deployment, energy efficiency, clean transportation, stakeholder 
and community education, outreach, and engagement, and data analytics. 
Supports Native Hawaiians and the broader community in working together to lead Hawai‘i's 
effort to achieve energy self-sufficiency and sustainability.Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic 
sectors, including energy. 
Sets a goal that Hawai‘i is less dependent on imported carbon-based energy with shared 
access to renewable energy benefits and is on track to meet the state's goal of 100% clean 
energy by 2045. 
Objectives include
 updating the electrical grid infrastructure,  improving awareness and 
understanding
 of energy resources,  and expanding  energy efficiency and 
sustainability practices.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVESThe Aloha+ Challenge includes a goal to achieve 70% clean energy, with 40% from 
renewable sources and 30% from efficiency, with a view towards 100% renewable energy 
by 2045. 
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a commitment to achieve 100% renewable 
electricity by 2045.
Details the program to manage the state's transition to a renewable hydrogen 
economy, including implementation plans.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the 
Economy—Potential Growth and Innovative Activities
Hawai‘i Water Energy Nexus Report 
(2017)Describes the relationship between water and energy use in Hawai‘i, and encourages the 
development and implementation of water conservation programs protecting Hawai‘i’s f resh 
water resources, while considering the implications of energy uses in the water and 
wastewater industries.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    51
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left:  Leeward Community College Net Zero Energy Campus on the island of O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: U niversity of Hawai‘i. 
Photo Right: University of Hawai‘i-Maui College Net Zero Energy Campus on the island of Maui. 
Photo
 Credit: University of Hawai‘i.In 2015, Hawai‘i became 
the first state in the 
country to make the 
commitment to achieve 
a 100% electricity 
renewable portfolio 
standard by 2045. 
Concurrently, the State of 
Hawai ‘i established a similar 
energy goal for the 
University of Hawai‘i System 
to achieve net-zero energy 
use by 2035, meaning the 
university system would 
produce as much renewable 
energy as it consumes across 
its 10 campuses (Hawai‘i 
Revised Statutes §304A-119).
Hawai‘i's own Leeward 
Community College 
became one of the first 
net-zero campuses in 
the United States.  In 
July 2020, the campus 
generated 97% of energy 
through on-site photovoltaic 
syste ms, including solar 
shade canopies, rooftop 
arrays, and distributed 
energy storage (UH News 
2020a).  By January 2021, 
the Uni versity of Hawai‘i 
Maui College also became 
one the first campuses in 
the nation to generate 100% 
of its energy from on-site 
solar photovoltaic systems 
coupled with battery storage 
(UH News 2021).The  State of Hawai‘i is committed to lead and t rans form  Hawai‘i's e nergy 
use. In addition to these energy commitm ents, the State also enacted 
energy efficiency portfolio standards, which re quire  that 4,300 gigawatt 
hours (GWh) of electricity use be reduced statewi de by 2030 (H awai‘i 
Revised Statutes §269-96). 
The Hawai‘i State Energy Office tracks and  reports o n electricity 
purchased by state agencies as part of the “L ead  By E xample” initiative. 
Between 2005 and 2019, Hawai‘i State agencies reduc ed th eir 
electricity use by  17.5%.  This was made  possible in part  through the 
government's performance contracting prog ram.  S ince the  performance 
contracting program was introduced in 1996, Stat e an d C ounty 
government agencies saved an estimated $1.1  bill ion in en ergy costs  
over the life of the contracts.  The State of  Hawai‘i's s uccess garnered 
national recognition by achieving the Race  to the Top A ward for 8 
consecutive years  between 2012 and 2019.  This nat ional accolade 
recogni zes the state with the highest per capita  inve stmen t in 
performance contracting projects, awarded by the  En ergy Se rvices 
Coalition. 
As of June 2020, all of Hawai‘i's counties have succe ssfully adopted the 
2015 International Energy Conservation Co de (IE CC) with Hawai‘i 
amendments (as amended) (HSEO 2020).  The estimat ed net energy 
saving s from this statewide adoption is 1,083,5 90 MWh  in 2029 (year 10); 
1,991,059 MWh in 2032; and 4,702,738 MWh in 2038 ( year 20). These 
estimated energy savings are greater for co mmer cial buildings, which are 
expected to save about 33%.  The energy savings  estimates will a lso rise 
as a result of additional amendments adopted  by the count ies (DBEDT 
2016).  
The  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC) under scores 
that  a “rapid and far-reaching” sustainable t ransition in land, en ergy, 
bui ldings, transport, and cities is needed to mee t global carbo n reduction 
goals to lim it global warming to 1.5°C.  Buildings account fo r almos t 40% 
of global energy-related CO2 and will play a m ajor role in a sustainable 
transformat ion (IPCC 2018).  To meet global decarbonizat ion 
goals within the buildings sector, the Internatio nal  En ergy Agency 
recommends that almost all existing buildings undergo  a single in-depth 
retrofit by 2050 and new construction meet  str ingen t efficiency 
standards.  Building energy codes covering new an d existing buildings are 
the fundamental tool to drive this change (IEA 2021).  
It is imp ortant to recognize the role of the buil t environme nt, especially 
since buildings are a key component in the fabric of cities and the 
building and construction sector provides o pportuni ties to contribute to 
achieving the UN SDGs.  Green buildings play an im portant role in the 
sustainable development of cities, communities,  and  neighb orh oods by 
reducing energy and waste consumption; conserving  water; prioritizing 
the use of safer materials; and lowering the expos ure to toxins.  Applying 
these sustainable development principles lo cally in  the design, 
construction, retrofitting, and operation i n H awai‘i's buildings will help 
transform local energy use, reduce GHG emissions,  adapt  to climate 
change, and create sustainable and thrivi ng co mmun ities.
 52Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    53DECENT WORK AND
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Sustainable Development Goal 8 
Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth,
Full and productive employment, Decent work for all
Targets related to the UN Decent Work and Economic Growth goal 
include:
•Sustaining economic growth and economic pr
oductivity through
innovation, diversification, and increased access to financial
institutions, particularly in developing countries
•Achieving “full and productiv
e” employment in safe and secure
working environments across all genders, abilities, and ages
•Eradicating forced labor in all forms, including human trafficking andchild labor
Overview
Key economic sectors for Hawai‘i include tourism, defense, creative economy, and agriculture. 
Based on gross domestic product (GDP), the top five industries in Hawai‘i (as of 2019) were real 
estate, rental, and l
easing; government; accomm odation and food services; health care and social 
assistance; and retail trade (DBEDT 2020c).
Prior to the C
OVID-19 global pandemic, Hawai‘i had the lowest unemployment rate in the n ation 
(BLS 2018).  The pandemic has exacerbated existing economic stressors, causing a d ramatic 
reduction in tourism and prompting unprecedented business closures and increased 
unemployment.  Unemployment in the state peaked in April 2020 at nearly 24%, largely due to 
stress in the hospitality and food/service industries (Associated Press 2020).  The state's l
abor 
underutilization rate—which includes the unemployed, involuntary part-time workers (i.e., 
workers employed part-time for economic reasons), and those marginal
ly attached to the labor 
force—was 19.4% in 2020 (BLS 2021).  This was dramatically higher than the state's previous 
unemployment rates: from 1990 to 2018, unemployment was highest in 2011 at 7.0% and lowest 
in 2017 at 2.4% (DBEDT 2020a).  
Some populations face unique challenges.  For example, older workers and people with health 
issues or disabilities may have difficulties finding a job or teleworking, and b
ecause these groups 
are more vulnerable to COVID-19 they may have to weigh protecting their health or preserving 
their job.  Many women have also had to take on additional unpaid labor, such as childcare. 
A sustainable Hawai‘i cannot occur without a sustainable economy.  There is a unique 
opportunity to plan for and design a post-COVID sustainable economic recovery, by d iversifying 
and strengthening Hawai‘i's economic clusters and encouraging a regenerative, and 
environmentally and culturally sustainable tourism
 industry.  The tourism industry has 
tremendous potential to make progress by reducing its consumption of land, water, energy, and 
other natural resources, as well
 as taking a leadership role in protecting our natural areas.  
 54Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 8
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-6 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-7 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy 
—AgricultureDetails provisions for achieving full employment and economic growth including 
promoting Hawai‘i as an attractive market for investment, penetrating new markets for 
Hawai‘i's p
roducts and services, foster cooperation between government and private 
sectors i
n developing employment and economic growth, and increasing 
communication w
ith the educational community to ensure a curriculum that is relevant 
to Hawai‘i's job market.
Details economic objectives relating to the agriculture section including diversifying 
agriculture and managing natural resources.
Directs economic planning toward the achievement of a visitor industry that supports 
steady growth for the state.
Promotes the development of federally supported activities in Hawai‘i. 
Encourages federal expenditures in Hawai‘i that generate long term employment. 
Details objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth.
Establishes priority guidelines for economic growth, business expansion, and 
economic d
iversification.
Promotes a diversified and dynamic economy.
Encourages balancing economic, social, community, and environmental 
priorities.
Hawai‘i Defense Economy Action Plan 
(2021)
Hawai‘i Tourism Authority Strategic Plan: 
2020-2025 (2020)
University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
(2018)
Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy (2016)Identifies strategies for expanding and diversifying the tourism market.
Establishes goals for each of the four pillars covered in the plan: natural resources, 
Hawaiian culture, community, and brand marketing. 
Establishes objectives, milestones, and measures to track the achievement of 
these goals.
Identifies opportunities to align education with job creation and economic diversification 
by leading the development of a $1 billion innovation, research, education and training 
enterprise that addresses the challenges and opportunities faced by Hawai‘i and the 
world.
Provides a blueprint for future economic developme nt across the state and all economic 
sectors including diversification of the tourism industry.
The National Security and Hospitality and Tourism cluster includes redefining Hawai‘i as 
a destination of choice, identifying new tourism markets, supporting training programs for 
local residents to expand the workforce pipeline.Recognizes the role of Hawai‘i's unique relation ship with the military and the role this 
partnership can play in economic development.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes targets for sustainable tourism (continue to develop 
policies and initiatives to promote sustainable business practices that invest in Hawai‘i's 
natural and cultural resources and support local job creation and thriving communities) 
and innovation and entrepreneurship (foster an ecosystem of innovation, research, 
education, and entrepreneurship that creates living-wage jobs and a diversified 
economy).
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-8 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Visitor Industry
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-9 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the E conomy
—Federal Expenditures
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-103 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Economic Priority Guidelines
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-108 of Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Sustainability Priority Guidelines
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    55
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Potential Growth and Innovative ActivitiesSUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
10,42 4,995 tourists 
visited Hawai‘i in 2019 
(HTA 2020b).  Tourism is 
a major contributing 
sector of Hawai‘i's 
economy, but there is no 
doubt that increased 
visit or numbers can also 
intensify strain on local 
commu nities and 
ecosystems.  Sustainable 
tourism is often seen as a 
solution to address these 
effects.Hā ‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i turned to its c ommunity in 
a collaborative process to lessen the impacts of t ourism and 
reform the park's management plan.  Whil e the park is a wahi 
pana, wahi kapu, and an area of ecologica l signi ficance, it also 
struggled with overcrowding and vehicle cong estion as  one of 
Hawai‘i's busiest state parks (DLNR 2018).  T his cro wdi ng 
effectively pushed local residents out of a sto ried place in their 
own com mu nity.  In response, the Hā‘ena State Park Mas ter Plan 
engagement coordinated with the communit y and developed a 
plan to balance recreational use with natur al an d cul tural  resource 
protection and restoration.  Community stakeh olders an d cultural 
practitioners continue to have an important r ole in plan 
implementation and park management, incl udin g thro ugh a 
commu nity advisory committee and a future cu ltur al ad visory 
group.  Other outcomes included a daily visit or limit of 900 (not 
counting cultural practitioners or specia l user groups ), a parking 
reservation system for out-of-state visi tors, a new boardwalk 
through the park's lo‘i, a permeable par king l ot with integrated 
shuttle stop, and interpretive signage and staff ing. W hile it took an 
unprecedented flood in 2018 and subsequent  State eme rgency 
funding to fast-track these actions, a plan t hat normally wo uld 
have t aken years to implement was instead largel y im plemented 
within 12 months, and the Hā‘ena State Park Maste r Plan  became 
an example to mitigate tourism impacts on local comm unitie s and 
provide a higher quality experience with the natur al enviro nment.
Photo Left: Ke‘e Beach in Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State Parks.
Photo Right: Lo‘i Kalo in Hā‘ena State Park on Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State Parks. 
 56Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    57Sustainable Development Goal 9 INDUSTRY, 
INNOVATION, AND 
INFRAS
TRUCTURE
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialization, and foster innovation
This SDG's targets include: 
•Improving the sust
ainability and equity of all existing and future
infrastructure
•Promoting sust
ainable industrialization that encourages innovation
•Increasing access to technology and supporting technologydevelopment
Overview
Hawai‘i's infrastructure (including airports, bridges, coastal areas, dams, energy systems, 
ports, roads, schools, solid waste, stormwater, wastewater, and drinking water) is aging.  
A lack of sufficient funding for infrastructure, along with population, economic, and 
development growth, has made it challenging to effectively maintain and improve 
infrastructure (ASCE, 2019).  Water main breaks, flood water damage, degradation of coastal 
highways, loss of property from coastal erosion, and beach and park closures from brown 
water advisories can all occur or happen more frequently due to deteriorating infrastructure 
(ASCE, 2019).  Climate-influenced changes (e.g., sea level rise and increased coastal erosion, 
more frequent and intense hurricanes, higher king tides, and extreme weather events causing 
heavy rainfall, storm surge, and/or wind) are further stressing these assets (ASCE, 2019). 
Hawai‘i has an opportunity to incorporate green in frastructure as an adaptation strategy. 
This includes design concepts such as installation of more vegetation and permeable surfaces, 
which can decrease urban temperatures, reduce carbon emissions, improve air quality, 
increase urban tree canopy, and capture water to replenish the water table. 
Residents who live near green infrastructure also experience positive health impacts, such as 
a lower likelihood of heart and respiratory issues,  improvements to mental health, and better 
overall quality of life.
 58Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 9
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-17 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems—TransportationIncludes provisions to attain high-speed wireless communication, facilitate innovative 
businesses, encourage job creation located in Hawai‘i, ensure that new economic growth 
meets the needs of Hawai‘i's people, and provide 
opportunities for Hawai‘i residents to 
be upwardly mobile in the information industry.
Includes provisions on multimodal and mass transportation systems, including 
planning transportation systems to promote the use of alternative fuels. 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation 
Action Plan (2021)
Hawai‘i Broadband Strategic Plan (2020) 
Statewide Coastal Highway Program 
Report (2019)
State of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation 
Plan (2018)
SustainableHNL Sustainable Management 
Plan (2016)Provides information and a framework for the creation of policies and programs to 
address the challenges faced in meeting the State's broadband goals.
Provides a scientifically rigorous methodology to assess and rank the susceptibility of 
the State of Hawai‘i'
s coastal roads to erosion and structural degradation due to ocean 
hazards s uch as waves, currents, tides, and sea level rise.
Identifies action plans to achieve the six broad hazard mitigation goals. The first goal in 
the hazard mitigation plan includes “reduc[ing] the long-term vulnerability of Hawai‘i's 
people… including State-owned or operated buildings, infrastructure and critical 
facilities.”
Provides a blueprint for future economic development across the state and all economic 
sectors.
Emphasizes the importance of continued innovation and infrastructure improvement 
across the economy, including providing technological innovation and entrepreneurship 
in healthcare, and improving the infrastructure of the 
tourism sector to balance the needs 
of visitors and residents.Summarizes research on how climate change will impact Hawai‘i roadways.
Outlines strategies to achieve greater network resilience in the face of long-term 
environmental risks.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The University of Hawai‘i, in partnership with the private sector and state 
government, launched Hawai‘i's Innovation Initiative to build a thriving 
innovation, research, education and training enterprise in Hawai‘i.  
Hawai‘i  Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Plan (2016) 
Provides the framework for a management plan rooted in the best practices of 
sustainability that can serve as a model in 
design and process for State-run airports.
Conducts a comprehensive analysis of how and where sustainability management 
is implemented into long-term planning at HNL.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    59
Deta ils objectives related to potential growth of the economy including diversification, 
innovation, and job growth.Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Potential Growth and Innovative Activities
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-10.5 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Economy
—Information IndustrySUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Pho to Left: Volunteers deliver FDA-approved hand sanitizer that was locally produced and manufactured by 
Kō Hana Hawaiian Agricole Rum Distillery to fill the supply gap and provide sanitizer to Hawai‘i hospitals, 
first responders, correctional facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i.  
Photo Right: Kō Hana sugar cane field in Kunia on the island of O‘ahu.  Photo Credit: Kō Hana Distillers. 
Over $4.4 billion worth of 
imports passed through 
Hawai‘i customs in 2019 
(DBEDT 2020b).  Hawai‘i 
depends largely on goods 
shipped in from out-of-state: 
for example, 85-90% of our 
food supply is sourced 
from outside of Hawai‘i 
(Office of Planning 2012). 
However, this reliance 
leaves Hawai‘i vulnerable 
as disa sters and 
emerge ncies can disrupt 
supply chains. The COVID-19 global pandemic rapidly highlighted Hawai‘i's 
vulnerability.  In March 2020, the onset of intense demand for hand 
sanitizer created an enormous gap between the supply and demand 
of sanitizer.  In response, Kō Hana Distillers, an O‘ahu distillery 
bett
er known for its premium rum, with the assistance of the state 
of Hawai‘i, approached the federal Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) to for approval to produce high-proof alcohol as a base for 
sanitizer from distilling Hawai‘i-grown sugarcane.  
Other local 
business
es throughout Hawai‘i joined Kō Hana by supplying bottles, 
labels, boxes, ingredients, oversight, and labor—completing the 
manufacturing process and, together, creating the first locally made 
FD A-registered hand sanitizer in Hawai‘i.  Within a few weeks, the 
sanitizer was ready for distribution and the State of Hawai‘i, along 
with several nonprofits, helped coordinate the logistics to disperse 
bottles of sanitizer into the community as quickly as practical.  
First responders, hospitals, schools, kūpuna, correctional facilities, 
and homeless all received donations.  By December 2020, Kō Hana 
had locally produced over 50,000 gallons of hand sanitizer for the 
people of Hawai‘i.  The distillery also planted nearly 300 new acres 
of sugarcane, ensuring sanitizer remains a permanent addition to 
Hawai‘i's locally manufactured products. 
 60Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    61REDUCE INEQUALITIES
Sustainable Development Goal 10 
Reduce inequality within and among countries
This UN goal seeks to reduce intercountry and intracountry inequalities 
and includes targets that address: 
•Promoting appropriate legisla
tion and policies to achieve greater
equality
•Supporting the political, social, and economic inclusion of all peoples
regardless of age, gender, ability, race, ethnicity, or economic status
Overview
Inequality in Hawai‘i manifests in a number of ways, including Native Hawaiians facing greater 
hardships and being further from attaining the outcomes of the SDGs.  As mentioned under SDG 3, 
15% of Native Hawaiians do not have health insurance (compared with 4% of the population as a 
whole).  Overall, health outcomes are worse than average for Native Hawaiians, other Pacific 
Islanders, the mentally ill, and the poor.
Hawai‘i also has a long history and continuing history of ensuring equal rights for the lesbian, gay, 
bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community and passed marriage equality legislation 
in 2013.  Hawai‘i was also one of the first states to ban conversion therapy for minors, ban gay/
trans-panic as an affirmative defense, and expanded gender markers on State IDs and driver's 
licenses to include “X”  for a non-binary option.  However, LGBTQ+ residents are more likely to 
face health inequities (such as higher likelihood of chronic diseases and poor mental health) due 
to discrimination in the healthcare system  and higher rates of domestic abuse (DOH 2017).
Achievements in other SDGs may positively impact SDG 10, and reducing inequalities will  support 
the achievement of other SDGs. 
 62Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 10
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Marriage Equality Act of 2013
Act 148, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019: Relating to 
Gender IdentificationLegalized same-sex marriage in the state.
Expa nded gender options applicable to driver's licenses and state identification cards 
to include a non-binary option of “X.”
Sanctions the submissions of complaints in regards to discrimination or discriminatory 
practices.
Proh ibits discrimination in employment.
Clearly defines terms relating to potential discrimination.
Outlaws disciminatory actions that deny, or  attempt to deny, a person full and 
equal enjoyment of publicly available goods, resources, and accomodations.
Identifies and outlaws discriminatory practices related to real estate transactions.
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Reports 
(2020)Annual reports on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong State civil rights laws by 
rebuilding c apacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for State civil rights law 
enforcement.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil Rights 
Commission
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 378: Employment 
Practices
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 489: Discrimination in 
Public Accommodations 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 515: Discrimination in 
Real Property Transactions
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    63
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 
(b) (16): Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives a nd
Policies for the Economy—In General
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-24: Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-
cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and Personal 
Well-BeingSets goal to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of Hawai‘i's 
population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objective to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of 
every individual and assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and 
other public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for individual participation in 
society. SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Waimea River, Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Departmen t of Land and Natural Resources. 
Photo Right: Waimea River, Kaua‘i Island. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. 
All water in Hawai‘i is h eld as 
a public trust 
(Hawai‘i Const. art. XI).  A key 
feature of Hawai‘i law, this is an 
inheritance from Kānaka Maoli 
culture and principles where 
private ownership of water was 
unthinkable and instead 
managed for the benefit of all.  
However,  
the state's plantation 
legacy and oversight of this 
public trust ethic means that 
the reality of water use is far 
more contentious and often 
culminates in notoriously 
prol
onged lawsuits (Sproat 
2009).
The 2017 Waimea W atershed 
Agreement s tands out for 
being H awai‘i's first major 
water dispute resolved 
without litigation, an 
accomplishment made e ven 
more significant by 
its disparate signatories.  
Pō‘ai 
Wai Ola (a “taroroots” 
organization representing 
community members and 
cultural
 practitioners), 
the State Agribusiness 
Development Corporation 
(ADC), the Kaua‘i Island U tility 
Cooperative (KIUC), t he Kekaha 
Agriculture A ssociation (KAA), 
and the D epartment of 
Hawaiian H ome Lands (DHHL) 
all
 signed the agreement after a 
year of formal mediation 
(Henkin 2017). At the center of the case was Waimea River: from its headwaters in 
Alaka‘i Swamp, through the “Grand C
anyon of the Pacific,” 
and into the Pacific Ocean, the river is a major water source that once 
supported an expansive lo‘i system, and yet by 2013 had become so 
low and silt-fil
led due to upstream diversions that a 15-foot swimming 
hole had disappeared (Earthjustice 2013).  Every party had its own 
design for beneficial use of the water, but at the suggestion of 
mediation by the State Commission on Water Resources, and with 
diligent effort by a communally respected figure (who eventually 
became the case's mediator), everyone found they agreed with the 
following cornerstone: above all, Waimea River should be allowed to 
flow ma uka to ma kai, and total diversion of the water must never 
happen again.  With common ground established, conversation coul
d 
begin, and this founding principle evolved into the first of the 
agreement's “Statement of Guiding Principles” (Earthjustice 2013).
The outcome was a compromise that managed to cede important wins 
to all stakeholders.  Millions of gallons of water would be restored to 
Waimea River, allowing for minimum instream flows through its 
entirety to support stream ecosystems and traditional cul
tural 
practices (Henkin 2017).  Hawaiian homesteads on DHHL land in 
Waimea, which had remained undeveloped due in part 
to lack of water, would have water specifically reserved for them for 
the first time since 1921 (DHHL 2017).  KIUC would have the 
opportunity to develop a pumped-storage hydro “battery” using water 
from Waimea River, which if advanced would diversify
 Kaua‘i's 
renewable energy portfolio and provide for infrastructure necessary to 
develop the Waimea homesteads (DHHL 2017).  Finally, ADC and KAA 
could 
continue utilizing existing ditch irrigation systems from the river 
for agriculture (Mediation Agreement 2017).  This remarkable feat of 
negotiation and cooperation is considered “historic,” and it shows that 
zero-sum outcomes aren’t inevitable: that by setting aside ultimatums, 
exhibiting empathy, 
and being willing to listen, even opposed parties 
can come to terms and a resolution found. 
 64Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    65SUSTAINABLE CITIES 
AND COMMUNITIES
Sust ainable De
velopment Goal 11
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, 
and sustainable
The core tenets of an “inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable” city or 
community as defi ned by this UN goal are as follows: 
• Affordable housing
• Access to public spaces
• Sustainable transportation systems, including public transport
• Safe cultural and natural heritage
•Protected against losses related to natural disasters
• Reduced adverse per capita environmental impact of cities (air
quality, waste management)
Overview
Residents of Hawai‘i celebrate access to public spaces, beaches, and the ocean, and prioritizing the 
vitality of cultural  and natural  heritage.  There is significant work to be done, however, to increase 
mobility and accessibility, provide increased access to affordable housing, and increase the economic 
wellbeing of households.  
In Hawai‘i, Maui and Kaua‘i islands, smart growth and transit-oriented development (TOD) principles 
are being planned to encourage quality growth and vibrant mixed-use neighborhoods in urban or 
rural centers.  In O‘ahu's urban areas, the State of Hawai‘i in partnership with the City and County of 
Honolulu is working on TOD around its rail  corridor.  This effort aims to provide more green and 
public g
athering spaces, safer streets, and less pollution and noise, all while being sensitive to the 
needs of the neighboring community.  Honolulu also recently published a guide outlining design 
principles that can help develop policy and regulations for urban areas that may be vulnerable to 
climate change hazards.  All  four counties have made commitments to use 100% renewable fuel 
sources for public ground transportation by 2045. 
Sustainable development of buildings and the use of green infrastructure help to mitigate the 
environmental impact of cities.  The State of Hawai‘i has requirements for sustainable development 
of State buildings, including LEED certification and water recycling and reclamation.  Further, the use 
of green infrastructure has many co-benefits for communities, including enhancing livability, 
improving p
hysical and mental health, sequestering CO2 from the atmosphere, improving air quality, 
sl
owing and filtering stormwater runoff, reducing flooding and soil  erosion, and reducing the urban 
heat island effect.  Honolulu lost nearly 5% of total  urban tree canopy over four years.  The City and 
County of Honolulu in collaboration with Kaulunani Urban Forestry program are working to reverse 
this trend and have produced a tree canopy assessment to use as a baseline and have pledged to 
increase the urban tree canopy to 35% by 2035.
Hawai‘i has some of the best air qual
ity in the nation.  Some air pollution issues may still occur due to 
the presence of automobiles, and the Department of Health continues to regulate and monitor air 
pollution sources.  As seen during the 2014-2015, 2016, and 2018-2019 lava eruptions from Kı̄lauea 
Volcano on Hawai‘i Island can also occasionally experience volcanic smog, or vog, a mixture of 
atmospheric aerosols and volcanic gases that can have harmful  health effects.  Whil e the State cannot 
control the formation of vog, it can reduce health risks by closing highly exposed trails when 
necessary and educating the public about proper protective actions. 
 66Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 11
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land, Air, and Water Quality
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-17 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility S
ystems—Transportation Includes policy to improve air quality to enhance the health and well-being of Hawai‘i's 
people.
Identifies objectives and policies for transportation facility systems, including the 
enhancement of the public transit system to accommodate growth and the integration of 
an efficient multi-modal transportation system.
Defines state policy objectives for advancing opportunities for affordable housing and the 
orderly d
evelopment of residential areas sensitive to community needs and other land 
uses.
Prioritizes the need and access for affordable housin g as a priority guideline for 
the Hawai‘i State Planning Act to address as an issue of statewide concern.
Established a goal of developing 22,500 affordable rental units statewide to be ready 
for occupancy by December 31, 2026, and a Special Action Team on Affordable 
Rental Housing to recommend actions to achieve the goal.Directs agencies to design buildings and facilities to meet high-level LEED standards, 
and to purchase fuel-efficient and alternative fueled vehicles whenever possible.
State of Hawai‘i Hazard Mitigation Plan 
(2018)
State of Hawai‘i Strategic Plan for 
Transit-Oriented Development (2018)
State of Hawai‘i Affordable Rental 
Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan 
(2018)Guides the implementation of transit-oriented d evelopment projects including the 
development of affordable housing.
Based on seven principles of transit-oriented development, including prioritizing p rojects 
in areas served by public transit, creating effective partnerships, maximizing t he co-
location of state facilities, developing affordable housing, engaging in equitable 
development, using sustainable building practices, and investing in critical infrastructure.
Developed a baseline of affordable rental units currently in the planning stages or under 
development, implementing actions, and measures of effectiveness to guide 
achievement o f the affordable rental housing goals.
Provides next step recommendations on ways to support affordable rental housing in the 
state.
Guides the implementation of the Hawai‘i State Plan  housing goals and objectives.
Covers four priority areas, which include expanding and preserving rental housing 
opportunities, increase homeownership, addressing barriers to residential development, 
and maintaining a housing information system.
Includes clearly defined problem statements followed by objectives, policies, 
implementing actions and accessory details such as lead organization, budget 
estimates, s tart date and measures of effectiveness.Outlin es a long-term strategy for the state to reduce risk and losses from future natural 
hazard events.
Serves as a technical reference for updates to local county hazard mitigation plans 
that integrates best available data and climate science.
Provides a robust risk assessment that expands upon the number and type of assets 
assessed in the 2013 Hazard Mitigation Plan.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge includes a Smart Sustainable Communities target to increase 
livability and resilience in the built environment through planning and implementation 
at the state and county levels.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-19 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural A
dvancement—Housing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-106 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Priority Guidelines for the 
Provision of Affordable Housing
Act 127, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2016: Relating to 
HousingHawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-9: Energy Efficiency and 
Environmental Standards for State Facilities, Motor 
Vehicles, and Transportation Fuel
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    67
Housing Functional Plan (2017)SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
In 2017, ground 
transportation alone accounted for about 20% of Hawai‘i's greenhouse gas emissions (DOH 2021a). Meeting the State's Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target will require significant greenhouse gas emission reduction in this area, which in turn will require a multi-pronged approach of increasing multimodal active transportation, zero emission vehicle use, and increased use of alternative fuels. Maui-based Pacific Biodiesel is currently the only 
commercial biofuel producer in Hawai‘i and the nation's 
longest operating biodiesel producer, with locations on 3 
islands.  Pacific Biodiesel produces nearly 5.5 million gallons of 
biodiesel annually fr
om waste oil, largely sourced from restaurants 
across the islands (Pacific Biodiesel 2019a).  This circular economic 
model to sustainably manage and recycle food waste converts fats, 
oils and grease (FOG) into fuels.  Through a community-based 
r
ecycling program, “Restaurants 4 Renewables” in Hawai‘i 
County, Maui County, and the City and County of Honolulu, the 
company collects and converts used cooking oil into renewable 
energy from over 900 local restaurants, hotels, and ot her food 
service operations.  Converting used cooking oil and grease trap 
waste into biodiesel diverts waste from landfills and p rovides a 
locally-produced fuel that generates approximately 74% fewer 
lifetime greenhouse gas emissions than traditional petroleum diesel 
(U.
S. DOE n.d.).  
In order to support an end-to-end, 100% local production process, 
Pacific 
Biodiesel began a 115-acre project in 2017 to grow sunflowers 
to increase its local fuel source supply—and made history by being 
the largest biofuel crop project in the 
state of Hawai‘i and the only 
biofuel farming operation in the state running on 100% renewable 
fuel (Penniman 2018).  In 2019, the Hamakua Energy power 
generation facility, which provides up to 22% of Hawai‘i Island's 
generating capacity, diversified its fuel sourcing by using biodiesel 
fuel to reduce the facility's dependence on fossil fuels and advance 
H
awai‘i Island's energy independence and energy security (PBN 
2019).
Photo Left: With a production capacity of 5.5 mil lion gal lons annually, Pacific Biodiesel's refinery  on Hawai‘i 
Island utilizes state-of-the art distillati on technology to produce the nation’s highest quality bio diesel. 
All t he fuel produced at this facility is sold wit hin the  stat e of Hawai‘i.  Photo Credit: Pacific Biodiesel .
Photo Right: Pacific Biodiesel’s business m odel focuses on  recycling with a zero-waste philosophy that 
incorporates development of value-added co- products.  In 2017 the company began farming sunflowers and 
other biofuel crops on the island of Maui–supportin g local energy diversification and resilience, and carbon 
sequestration.  Photo Credit: Pacific Biod iesel.
 68Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    69RESP ONSIBLE 
CONSUMPTION  
AND PROD UCTION
Sust
ainable Development Goal 12
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
This UN SDG seeks to improve sustainable consumption and production by:
•Promoting the adoption o
f sustainable consumption practices and
sustainable public procurement practices
•Mitigating emissions from solid w
aste by reducing waste generation and
diverting waste
•Reducing food waste
Overview
Hawai‘i is relatively sustainable when it comes to food waste, discarding 356 pounds of food per year 
per person compared to 429 pounds on the continental United States.  For the most part, food waste in 
Hawai‘i either goes through incineration or into the landfill.  There are opportunities to increase other 
methods of food recovery, such as through composting or source reduction.  These methods could also 
result in pollution or greenhouse gas reductions by reducing the amount of particles and emissions 
produced by landfills and combustion.
Each of the counties throughout the State of Hawai‘i have laws and initiatives to reduce plastics and are 
proceeding somewhat differently (DOH 2020).
There is an opportunity in the wake of the COVID-19 global pandemic to reevaluate waste m anagement 
practices, including encouraging the tourism industry to adopt sustainabl
e practices, as c onsumer 
behaviors adapt to the “new normal” that has formed from statewide stay-at-home orders.  In 2020, 
there were 47 certified sustainable eco-tourism businesses.  Further sustainability in the t ourism 
sector could position Hawai‘i as a global leader in that sector. 
 70Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 12
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-14 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Facility Systems
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §103D-1005: Encouraging the 
use of Recycled Products through the Hawai‘i Public 
Procurement CodeIncludes provisions to ensure the success of Hawai‘i's waste systems and 
encourages design to support the prudent use of resources.
Encourages purchasing preference for products containing recycled materials.
Prioritizes solid waste management practices an d processing methods in the order 
of source reduction, recycling and bioconversion, and landfilling and incineration.
Required waste diversion rates of 25% by 1995 and 50% by 2000, as well as a 
reduction of 25% of office paper generation by 1995 from a 1990 baseline.
Requires purchasing preference for recycled material products that are designed 
for durability.
Requires state and county agencies to establish office paper and other 
m
aterials recovery programs.
Set a fee for advance disposal for every glass container importer.
Set a fee of 5 cents per deposit on beverage containers manufactured within 
or imported to the state.
State of Hawai‘i Office of Solid Waste 
Management Annual Report (2021)
State of Hawai‘i Plastic Source Reduction 
Working Group Report (2020)Discusses solid waste management practices and methods for source reduction, 
recycling and bioconversion, and landfilling or incineration. 
Provides statewide recommendations and methods to improve the processes to 
reuse, reduce, recycle, and recover plastic waste.
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge has six goals for solid waste reduction: 1) increased total solid 
waste d
iversion, 2) decreased total solid waste generation, 3) increased recycling, 4) 
more source reduction, 5) increased reuse, and 6) increased waste to energy.  The 
initiative's g
oal is a 70% reduction in waste by 2030. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-2: Solid Waste 
Management Priorities
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-41: Goals for 
Procurement of Recycled Products
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-45: Paper Recovery
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-82: Advance 
Disposal Fee on Imported  Glass Containers 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-102: Deposit 
Beverage Container Fee
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    71
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342G-3: Solid Waste 
Management Goals  SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Decaying organic waste 
emits methane, a greenhouse 
gas w ith at least twenty-
eight times more global 
warming p otential than 
carbon dioxide ( EPA  2020).  
There are al
so v aluable 
nutrients in organic w aste 
that are lost when 
it is sent to landfills and 
incinerators.  Composting 
(turning organic material 
into rich soil through 
decomposer organisms) 
sequesters CO2 and these 
valuable nutrients from 
organic waste in the soil.  
This s ustainable practice 
reduces g reenhouse gas 
emissions w hile improving 
soil health.The Windward Zero Waste School Hui is a nonprofit on O‘ahu 
working to reduce waste levels, recover these nutrients, and 
generate revenue for five Kailua-Kalāheo Complex schools 
through on
-site composting.  Siting compost production on 
school grounds eliminates waste transportation emissions and 
allows students to learn about soil science, ecology, environmental 
stewardship, and green careers.  Windward Zero Waste School Hui 
also farms earthworms on the campuses for compost needs and 
sales, and compost and worms are sold to community members 
and
 local farmers.  In total, Windward Zero Waste School Hui 
composted 47,164 pounds of waste across the five schools in 2020 
(note: this number is low due to COVID-19 global pandemic school 
cl
osures; since this organization previously composted 108,703 
pounds
 of waste in 2019), and the combined compost soil and 
worm sales generated $46,504—100% of which went directly to 
the school
s.  This is significant since over 37% of students in the 
Kailua-Kalāheo Complex were deemed economically disadvantaged 
in the 2017-2018 school year, and research has shown that 
increasing spending per student correlates with higher wages and 
lower poverty rates
 in adulthood (DOE 2019, Jackson et al. 2016). 
In addition to
 their waste reduction benefits, Windward Zero 
Waste School Hui's c ompost programs provide additional revenue 
for greater student
 investment, a welcomed resource as schools 
face b udget challenges and the amount of economically 
disadvantaged s tudents increases from the impacts of the 
COVID-19 global pandemic.
Photo Left and Right: On-site composting at Enc hanted Lake Elementary School, in Kailua, O‘ahu, one 
of the public schools participating in the Windward Zero Wast S
chool Hui, which teaches children 
zero waste and resource recovery practices.
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning.
 72Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    73CLIMATE ACTION
Sustainable Development Goal 13
T
ake urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
This goal includes targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase 
resilience, and adapt to the impacts of climate change
Overview
Efforts to understand, mitigate, and adapt to the impacts of climate change are critical due to 
Hawai‘i’s isolated geography, unique cultural  heritage, and heavy reliance on the tourism industry. 
Hawai‘i anticipates an estimated 3.2 feet of sea level rise by 2100.  Climate change impacts, such as 
sea level rise and more frequent and intense extreme weather events (hurricanes, flood, droughts), 
pose an increasing threat to infrastructure and communities.  Sea level rise is especially hazardous as 
it will  affect many critical transportation systems, such as regional highways, airports, and harbors. 
Hawai‘i h
as seen an increase in extreme rainfall events from 1940 to present in addition to an 
increase in more consecutive dry days (USGCRP 2018).  
The Fourth National Climate Assessment projects the impacts of rising sea levels and other climate 
change impacts will result in the loss of 550 cultural  sites in Hawai‘i, more than 6,500 structures 
becoming unusable, and roughly 20,000 displaced residents.  According to the State of Hawai‘i’s Sea 
Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation report, statewide losse
s due to climate change are projected 
to total  more than $19 billion (USGCRP 2018).
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71 enacted a statewide target to reduce GHG emissions to 1990 
levels by 2020.  Total GHG emissions in Hawai‘i in 2017 were 17.87 million metric tons of carbon 
dioxide e
quivalent (MMT CO 2e), roughly 8% lower than 1990 levels.  Statewide projections indicated 
Hawai‘i was on track to meet the GHG emissions target by 2020. 
Figure 2: Hawai‘i GHG Emissions by Sector for 1990, 2007, 2010, and 2015-2017. Source: Hawai’i S tate DOH 
(2021)
Figure 2 shows emission trends by sector for each year that Hawai‘i has conducted a GHG inventory.  
The energy sector is the largest source of emissions in Hawai‘i, accounting for 86% of total emissions. 
Emissions from transportation accounted for the largest share of energy sector emissions in 2017, 
followed by stationary energy combustion emissions largely driven by emissions from electric power 
plants, petroleum refineries, and industry.  Agriculture, forestry, and other land use (AFOLU), waste, 
and industrial processes and product use (IPPU) sectors accounted for 6, 4, and 4% of total 
emissions, r espectively in 2017 (DOH 2021a).  
AFOLU is the only sector that overall, sequesters carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.  Healthy native 
forests and sustainable agricul
tural practices are essential to stabilizing soil organic carbon which 
accounts for over half of the carbon dioxide stored in Hawai‘i's terrestrial ecosystems (Selmants et al. 
2017).  
The State of Hawai‘i is committed to reducing GHG emissions, adapting to climate change, and 
incorporating climate change considerations into decision-making.  In April 2021, the State of Hawai‘i 
adopted Senate Concurrent Resolution 44, and became the first state in the Unit
ed States to declare a 
climate emergency.  74Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 13
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised St atutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: 
Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-65 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability PlanIncludes provisions to reduce the threat to life and property from erosion, flooding, 
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other natural or man-induced 
hazards and disasters.
Specifies that the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan will serve as the State's climate and 
sustainability strategic action plan.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to update the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan every 10 years.
Promotes sector resilience by encouraging the  identification of climate change threats, the 
assessment of potential consequences, and the evaluation of adaptation.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Plannin g to provide coastal and ocean policy 
management, and sea level rise adaptation coordination.  
Carries out the lead agency responsibilities for the Hawai‘i Coastal Zone Management 
program, as specified in Chapter 205A.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to develop, monitor, and evaluate strategic 
climate adaptation plans and actionable policy recommendations for the State and 
counties a ddressing expected statewide climate change impacts and provide planning and 
policy
 guidance and assistance to state and county agencies regard ing climate change 
and
 sustainability.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to develop, organize, and promote policies 
and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and climate 
policies and goals.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Climate Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, which is 
administratively attached to the Department of Land and Natural Resources. Coordination 
of this advisory commission is headed jointly by two co-chairs: the Chairperson of the 
Board of Land and Natural Resources and the Director of the State of Hawai‘i's Office of 
Planning, or their designees.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Greenhouse Gas Sequestration Task Force, which is 
administratively attached to the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning, charged with a number 
of statutory objectives, which among other responsibilities, include: identifying the potential 
to improve soil health, and increasing greenhouse gas sequestration in the agricultural, 
aquacultural, urban, and natural environments.
Sets a statewide target to sequester more atmospheric carbon and GHGs than emitted 
within the state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045.
Limited statewide GHG emissions to be equal to or below 1990 levels by 2020, excluding 
emissions from airplanes.
Established source category-specific GHG limits.
Requires conducting statewide GHG inventories, verification, and reporting to track 
progress.
Directed the State of Hawai‘i to expand strategies and mechanisms to reduce statewide 
greenhouse gas emissions through reduction of energy use, adoption of renewable energy,  
and control of air pollution among all agencies, departments, industries, and sectors,  
including transportation.
Aligns the State of Hawai‘i's commitment to combat climate change with the principles  and 
goals set forth by the United Nations‘ Paris Agreement and Hawai‘i's share of 
the obligations within the expectations apportioned to the United States in the Paris 
Agreement.
Resolves that the state mobilize climate mitigation  and adaptation efforts to address  
climate change at the necessary scale and speed. 
Advocates for the facilitation of investments in beneficial projects and infrastructure that 
promote zero emissions  Affirms that the State commits to statewide action that is rooted in 
equity, self-determination, culture, tradition, and the belief that people locally and around 
the world have the right to clean, healthy, and adequate air, water, land, food, education, 
and shelter.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning while  coordinating with other State 
agencies to identify existing and planned fa cilities that are vulnerable to the impact of sea 
level rise, flooding impacts, and natural hazards and assess options to mitigate those 
impa cts, and add sustainable development and climate cha nge adaptation as objectives 
for facility systems. 
Hawai‘i Revised St atutes §226-109 of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act: Cl imate Change Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2 (b) (6): Office of 
Planning; Responsibilities ; Coastal and Ocean 
Policy Managemen
t and Sea Level Rise Adaptation 
Coordination
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225M-2 (b) (9): Office o f 
Planning; Responsibilities; Climate Adaptation and 
Sustainability P lanning and Coor dination
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225M-8:  Statewide 
Sustainability B ranch
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225P-3: Hawai‘i Climate 
Change Mitigatio n and Adaptation Commission
Hawai‘i Revised S tatutes §225P-4: Greenhouse Gas 
Sequestration Ta sk Fo rce
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-5: Z ero Emissions  
Clean Economy Target
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-71:  Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Limit
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §342B-72:  Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Limit, Rules
Act 32, Session L aws of Hawai‘i 2017
Senate Concurren t Resolution 44 (2021): Declaring a  
Climate Emergency and Requesting Statewide 
Collaboration Toward an Immediate Just Transition and 
Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate
HB 243  (2021): Relating to Sea Level Rise Adaptation*
*At the date of publication, the bills from the 2021 legislative session referenced herein were passed by the Hawai‘i State Legislature and transmitted to the 
Governor for consideration. 75Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 13
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action 
Plan (2021)
Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to 
Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper 
(2021)
Ocean Resources Management Plan (2020)
Guidance for Addressing Sea Level Rise in 
Community Planning in Hawai‘i (2020)
State of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation Plan 
(2018)Feasibility and Implications of Establishing a 
Carbon Offset Program for the State of 
Hawai‘i  (2019)
State of Hawai‘i Statewide Coastal Highway 
Program Report (2019)
Feasibility and Implications of Managed 
Retreat Strategies for Vulnerable Coastal 
Areas in Hawai‘i (2019)Summarizes research on how climate change will imp act 
Hawa i‘i's roadways.
Outlines strategies to achieve greater net work resilien ce in the 
face of long-term environmental risks.
Highlights opportunities for Hawai‘i to implement nature-based 
strategies to adapt to and mitigate climate change.
Identifies 18 strategic actions across three focus area goals 
(development and coastal hazards, land-based pollution, and 
marine resources) t
o advance the State‘s management of 
ocean resources.
Provides additional guidance following on the 2017 Sea Level 
Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report.
Assists county planners to build upon and improve existing 
efforts to address sea level rise for four key topics: 
1)vulnerability assessment, 2) land use and development
alternatives, 3) plan and policy alignment, and 4) adaptive
management.
Makes findings regarding retreat programs and their 
relative significance to Hawai‘i and a specific multi‐ prong 
recommendation regarding the feasibility of retreat in Hawai‘i.Evaluates the feasibility for the Hawai‘i State Government to 
foster additional greenhouse gas reductions through carbon 
offset credits.
Develops a scientifically rigorous methodology to assess and 
rank the susceptibility of the state's coastal roads to erosion 
and structural degradation due to ocean hazards such as 
waves, currents, tides and sea level rise
.
Presents a new index methodology that considers the principal 
factors that determine coastal erosion and road degradation. 
The method is based on determination of the index CRESI 
(Coastal Road Erosion Susceptibility Index), which is 
evaluated a t discrete locations along coastal roads in relatively 
close p roximity to the ocean, and segments the coastal roads 
to have l ow, medium, and high susceptibility to structural 
degradation. 
Provides a five-year strategy to reduce risk and losses 
from future natural hazard events. Promotes resiliency and 
sustainability, aids in consistent evaluation, and provides 
a 
means to reduce the costs associated with disaster response 
and recovery, includes a mitigation action plan with information 
such as estimated costs, potential funding sources, anticipa
ted 
timelines, and the expected benefits and avoided losses of 
each hazard mitigation action identified.
Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation 
Report (2017)Provides a statewide assessment of Hawai‘i’s vulnerability to 
sea level rise and nine recommendations to reduce exposure 
to its impacts.
 76Photo Right: Waikı̄kı̄, O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority.Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    77SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left and Right: Hanalei Hill landslide and landslide clearing as a result of heavy rain and floods 
on Kaua‘i Island in March 2021. 
Photo Credit: State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation.
Hawai‘i is predicted to 
experience a hurricane every  
16 years that is powerful enough to cause a FEMA disaster declaration.  In fact, climate change is expected to increase this occurrence by causing stronger and more frequent hurricanes, and climate change will also exacerbate vulnerability to other natural disasters such as flooding, wildfires, and tsunamis.Isol ated communities are especially vulnerab le t o natu ral  
disaste rs if utilities become cut off and vital roads b ecome 
impa ssable, giving no access for emergency servi ces to 
reach communities in the crucial hours and days a fter a 
disaster.  In April 2018, this occurred when  floods and lands lides 
from record-breaking rainfall in Kaua‘i resulte d in  severe  damage to 
roads, schools, homes, and other structures.  The comm unitie s of 
Hā‘ena, Wainiha, and Hanalei on Kaua‘i's Nort h Shore  were among 
those most impacted because the only highway b uilt to co nnect 
these communities to the rest of the island was cl osed  into 2019 
due to critical damage from the floods.  However,  to prevent similar 
disaster catastrophes in the future, the County  of Kaua‘ i is leading a 
collaborative initiative for a Wainiha Community Resiliency Center, 
which will service these North Shore communities  befor e, during 
and after future disasters.  Funded by app ropriat ions for disaster 
relie f from Act 35, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019, t he Wai niha 
Community Resiliency Center will include a comm erc ial kitchen, 
supplies staging and storage space, and satel lites o ffices for first 
responders and State Parks officials, as we ll as provi de a community 
gathering space and an improved shelter against hur ricanes 
compared to older buildings.  
 78Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    79LIFE BELOW WATER
Sust
ainable Development Goal 14
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources 
for sustainable development
This goal aims to balance the mindful use of marine and coastal 
resources and conservation. Targets to achieve this goal include: •
Preven
ting and reducing land-based debris and nutrient pollution
that causes harm to marine and coastal environments
•Regulating and managing the use of marine and coastal resources
Overview
Climate changes, including rising air temperatures, changing rainfall patterns, drought, flooding, and 
saltwater contamination, are threatening marine ecosystems .  The changing climate also impacts 
local biodiversity of native species.  Rising ocean temperatures and acidification threaten the 
sustainability of fisheries and coral reefs.  Coral  reefs are a key draw for Hawai‘i's tourism industry, 
adding over $350 million to the local economy each year.  However, coral bleaching has already begun 
(DLNR 2017).  For example, elevated ocean temperatures led to extreme coral bleaching in 2014–
2015, with a nearly 50% decline in coral cover in west Hawai‘i and a 20–40% decline in Maui.  Mass 
coral beaching events are anticipated to continue i f no climate action is taken (Office of Planning 
2020).  
Currently, Hawai‘i's residents are concerned about the human impact on nearshore areas (Office of 
Planning 2020).  There is also the concern for the health of aquatic ecosystems and the migration of 
native fish species as ocean temperatures increase due  to climate change.  Previous fish mortaility 
events in O‘ahu have been connected to slackened trade winds and elevated surface water 
temperatures.  As an island community, many Hawai‘i r esidents enjoy a seafood diet and rely upon 
subsistence living, including fishing; however, decl ines in tuna and billfish populations are projected 
to impact the fishery industry with 2–5% losses per decade (USGCRP 2018).  
There is the need to balance agricultural productivity on the islands, which boost Hawai‘i's food 
security, self-sufficiency and access to fresh food, wi th the pollution to nearshore waters caused in 
part by intensive agricultural practices.  Runoff from residential areas is also a contributing source of 
water pollution.  There is a nascent recognition of  the need to protect groundwater-dependent 
ecosystems.  
One of the three main focus areas of the 2020 Ocean Resources Management Plan is land-based 
pollution, which highlights polluted stormwater runoff as a pervasive and widespread issue within 
Hawai‘i's watersheds (Office of Planning 2020).
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge has  a target to reverse th e trend of natural 
resource loss by increa sing freshwater securit y, watershed 
protection, community-based marine management, invasive 
species prevention and native species restoration.  The 
challenge also includes the goal to significantly increase the 
percentage of Hawai‘i's marine waters under active 
management by 2030. The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes 
a goal to protect 30% of priority watersheds and effectively 
manage 30% of nearshore ocean waters by 2030.
 80Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 14
STRATEGIC PLANS 
Office of Planning's Ocean Resources 
Management Plan (2020)Hawai‘i Nonpoint Source Management 
Plan: 2021-2025 (2021)
Holomua: Marine 30x30 (2020)
Hawai‘i Coral Reef Strategy 2030 (2020)
Water Resource Protection Plan (2019)
Coral Bleaching Recovery Plan (2017)Provides a vision of a healthy nearshore ecosystem with abundant resources that 
allow t he people of Hawai‘i to enjoy coastal waters, support local livelihoods, and feed 
their f
amilies.
Includes four key pillars to effectively manage Hawai‘i's nearshore waters with at least 
30% established as marine management areas by 2030: place-based planning, pono 
practices, monitoring, and protection and restoration.
Outlines recommendations for projects that address cora l reef ecosystem planning and 
summarizes the impact of previous projects on Hawai‘i 's reef resiliency.
Component of the Hawai‘i Water Plan that seeks to protect and sustain statewide g round 
and surface water resources, watersheds, and natural stream environments.
Recognizes that groundwater dependent ecosystems ( GDEs) support a variety of 
valuable
 ecosystem services, such as flood control, water supply, water purification, 
recreational o pportunities, biodiversity, and traditional and customary rights. However, the 
current
 approach for managing ground water in Hawai‘i does not explicitly account for the 
ground w ater discharge needs of GDEs.
Promotes the recovery of coral reefs following the 2014-2015 global coral bleaching  
event by identifying which management interventions are the most likely to promote  
recovery.Identifies 18 strategic actions across three focus area goals (development and coastal 
hazards, land-based pollution, and marine resources) to advance the state's 
management of ocean resources.Establishes goals, objectives, strategies, and milestones to reduce and prevent 
nonpoint source pollution and improve water quality, guiding the state's nonpoint source 
pollution management efforts.
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-11 of the Hawai‘i St ate 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land-Based, Shoreline, and Marine 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 342D: Wate r 
PollutionDescr ibes objectives regarding the sustainable use of marine resources and the 
protection of fragile environmental resources, including species and habitat conservation 
and do-no-harm principles.
Defines the rules and regulations for water pollution management in Hawai‘i under the 
purview of the Department of Health.
Outlin es the rules and regulations for the management of Hawai‘i's coastal zone, 
including the  specification of special management areas.
Outlin es the policies relating to how aquatic resources can be used in Hawai‘i, including 
fishing rights and how to prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species.
Specifies further regulations relating to fishing in the waters of Hawai‘i, including 
licensing and provisions for subsistence fishing. 
Establishes the West Hawai‘i Regional Fishery Management Area in order to improve 
the m anagement o f c
onsumptive and non-consumptive uses of aquatic resources in 
that region.
Outlin es the State regulations surrounding commercial fishing, including reporting 
requirements, licensing, approved and prohibited techniques, and the purchase of 
fishing  vessels. 
Establishes marine life conservation districts and defines what activities are permitted 
within t hose d istricts. 
Specifies how various species will be protected, and how the state will assist in the 
recovery of species‘ population, health, or ecosystems.
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205A: Coastal Zone 
Management
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 187A: Aquatic 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 188: Fishing Rights 
and Regulations
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 188F: We st Hawai‘i 
Regional Fishery Management Area 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 189: Commercial 
Fishing
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 190: Marin e Life 
Conservation Program
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195D: Conserva tion of 
Aquatic Life, Wildlife, and Land Plants
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    81
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Friends of Hanauma Bay and Ocean Defe nders Alliance Hawai‘i partnered to launch a 
citizen science study during the COVID-19 pandemic saf ety closure on Hanauma Bay’s Coral Colony 
Temp oral Texture Study to determine baseline he alth o f coral within Hanauma Bay’s inner reef. 
Photo Credit: Friends of Hanauma Bay. 
Photo Right: Hanauma Bay on the island of O‘ ahu re ope ned to the public after being closed for 9 mon ths 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The COVID-19  clos ure re juven ated the bay’s marine environment 
providing significant ecosystem restoratio n, the  ret urn an d growth of wildlife and endangered specie s, 
and a 64% improvement in water clarity.  Photo Cre dit: Frie nds of Han auma Bay. 
Coral, or ko‘a, is the first 
species named in the 
Kumulipo.  This is one 
of the many ways Kānaka 
Ma oli underpin the close 
relationship between life on 
land and sea.  Coral's cultural 
signi ficance, along with its 
ecological and economic 
importan ce, is why the 
declining health of Hawai‘i's 
corals in the face of human 
pressures and climate change 
evokes great concern.As a popular destination for coral reefs, Hanauma Bay on  O‘ahu is no 
different in facing this dual threat.  The bay's coral colonies face 
stress from multiple bleaching events, and with nearly 845,000 
visitors in 2019 alone, the coral colonies also show re duced growth in 
more disturbed areas (Star Advertiser 2020, Severino et al . 2020). 
The COVID-19 global pandemic further demonstrated the e ffects of 
visitor traffic: after Hanauma Bay was closed for safety purposes in 
March 2020, water clarity improved by 64% and as much as  
19.5 feet, larger fish were spotted in the reef, and there was a 
reported increase in endangered Hawaiian monk seal activity (Star 
Advertiser 2020, Serota 2020). 
 The bay's closure also allowed the 
nonprofit Friends of Hanauma Bay, in partnership with DLNR-
DAR's Coral Restoration Nursery, to begin coral restorat ion to repair 
damage to the reef (Friends of Hanauma Bay 2021).  When H anauma 
Bay reopened in December 2020, the City and County of H onolulu 
implemented COVID-19 capacity limits, shortened operation hours, 
increased non-resident visitor fees, and closures two d ays a week, 
which allowed for a reopening while continuing reduced pre ssure on 
the coral reef (Star Advertiser 2020).  Although challe nges remain, 
as the bay reopens further, an unmatched opportunity will  be 
provided to monitor visitor impacts from a new baseline and 
determine the best mechanisms to steward a more thriving 
Hanauma Bay.
 82Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    83LIFE ON LAND
Sust ainable De
velopment Goal 15
Protect, restore, and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and 
halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
The objective of “life on land” is to maintain continued thriving 
ecosystems on land and end all threats to land degradation and 
biodiversity loss. Targets to achieve this goal address: 
•Protecting biodiver
sity by reducing degradation of natural habitats,
ending the poaching and trafficking of endangered species, and
introducing measures to reduce the impact of invasive species
•Implementing sustainable management practices that enddeforestation and combat desertification
VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge targets include protecting 30% of w atershed 
forests by 2030 and increasing the percentage of t hreatened and 
endangered native species that are managed i n Hawai‘i by 2030.
The Sustainable Hawai‘i Initiative includes a commitment to p rotect 
30% of priority watersheds by 2030, and to implement t he State's 
Interagency Biosecurity Plan by 2027.
Overview
As one of the most geographically isolated regions in the world, Hawai‘i is home to rich and diverse 
ecosystems and species.  However, Hawai‘i also faces many threats to its biodiversity: as of 2015, the 
state's endangered and threatened species accounted for 28% of the nation's total  (DLNR 2015). 
Existing and emerging threats to these native ecosystems and species include invasive species and 
cl
imate change impacts.  Invasive species can aggressively overtake indigenous species and knock 
Hawai‘i's delicate ecosystems out of balance.  This is particularly a threat to Hawai‘i due to the state's 
geographic isolation.  The State's Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission has begun 
this endeavor to identify climate change impacts to native ecosystem through their working paper, 
“Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i”  (Climate Change Mitigation 
and Adaptation Commission 2021).
The Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture, Hawai‘i Invasive Species Council, Hawai‘i Department of 
Land and Natural Resources, H
awai‘i Department of Transportation, Hawai‘i Department of Health, 
the Coordinating Group on Alien Pest Species, and many partnerships with landowners, farmers, and 
environmental and community organizations coordinate to support Hawai‘i's biosecurity (Hawai‘i 
Biosecurity Plan 2016).   
Traditional practices once created a successful  relationship between natural resources and culture, 
resulting in a successful, sustainable community.  Integrating Native Hawaiian cultural  practices and 
traditional ecological  knowledge into natural  
resource management is critical  to protecting and 
maintaining the state's biodiversity (Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance 2010).
 84STRATEGIC PLANS 
Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan (2017)
Hawai‘i Forest Action Plan 2016 (2016)
Hawai‘i State Wildlife Action Plan (2015)
Hawai‘i Statewide Assessment of Forest  
Conditions and Trends (2010)
Strategic Plan for Hawai‘i's Natural Area 
Reserves System (2008)Identifies nine priority areas for Hawai‘i ’s forests that include:  water quality  and quantity;  
forest health, invasive species, insects and disease;  wildfire; urban and  community 
forestry; climate change and sea level rise;  conservation of native biodiversity; h unting,  
nature-based recreation, and tourism; forest products and carbon sequestration; a nd U.S. 
tropical island state and territorial issues.
This plan comprehensively reviews the status of the full range of the state’s native  
terrestrial and aquatic species, over 10,000 of which are  found nowhere else on Earth, 
and presents strategies for long-term conservation of species and habitats.
Includes provisions prioritizing the rapid response to invasive species.
Recommends restoring and conserving the native forest species and ecosystems by 
using native species.  
Identifies and defines the Natural Area Reserves System's role in conservation of  
biological e cosystems.Serves as a ten year plan providing a coordinated path forward to increase support for 
local a griculture, protection for the environment, and safeguards for the health and lifestyle  
of Hawai‘i's people. The plan addresses Hawai‘i's most critical biosecurity gaps and 
identifies m ore than 100 policy, processes, and infrastructure actions to take by 2027.
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-11 of the Hawai‘i St ate 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land-Based, Shoreline and Marine 
ResourcesRequires the protection of Hawai‘i's unique and fragile environmental resources.
Requires the State to exercise a conservation ethic, balance activities with ecological 
systems, consider physical attributes of areas when designing activities or facilities, 
encourage beneficial and multiple use of natural resources without causing irreparable 
environmental damage, consider multiple uses in watershed areas, provided such uses 
do not detrimentally affect water quality and recharge
 functions, and encourage protection 
of endangered species.
Defines the State's objectives and policies for the enhancement and preservation of 
Hawai‘i's physical environment, including scenic and natural beauty, and historic 
resources.
Promotes the preservation of views and vistas to enhance the visual and aesthetic 
enjoyment of mountains, ocean, scenic landscapes, and other natural features.
Requires protection of areas, structures, and elements that are an integral and functional 
part of Hawai‘i‘s ethnic and cultural heritage.
Descr ibes the State's objectives and policies for improving air and surface water quality, 
promoting the proper management of natural resources, and strengthening resilience to 
the effects of disasters.
Creates soil and water conservation district within the state and defines what actions the 
State will take to conserve those areas.
Sets regulations related to wildlife management, including conservation, hunting, and the 
protection of wild animals. 
Arranges a fund for the State park system an d defines policies related to those parks 
and their use.
Establishes the Invasive Species Council to study invasive species and prevent their 
spread through intervention.
Creates a Natural Area Reserves program, identifies certain areas to be part of the 
program, and defines what will be done within the areas to protect them from 
degradation. 
Defines the actions for the State of Hawai‘i to protect plants and animals from threats and 
environmental degradation. 
Establishes the Forest Stewardship Program and Forest Stewa rdship fund, in order to 
promote 
the long-term management of privately- and publicly-owned forest land within the 
state. 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-12 of the Hawai‘i Sta te 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Scenic, Natural Beauty, and Historic 
Resources
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-13 of the Hawai‘i Sta te 
Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for the Physical 
Environment—Land, Air, and Water Quality
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 180: Soil and 
Water Conservation Districts
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 183D: Wildlife
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 184: State Parks and 
Recreation Areas
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 194: Invasive 
Species Council
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195: Natura l Area 
Reserves System
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195D: Conserva tion of 
Aquatic Life, Wildlife, and Land Plants
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 195F: Forest 
StewardshipHawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 15
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    85
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left: Volunteers participating in the Wai‘anae  Mountains Watershed Partnership outplanting 
1,024 plants in the Wai‘anae Kai Forest Reserve  on O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: Yumi Miyata, Wai‘anae Mountai ns Wate rshed Partnership. 
Photo Right:  ‘Ōhi‘a Lehua growing in uplands of th e K o‘olau Mountains Watershed on O‘ahu. 
Photo Credit: Ko‘olau Mountains Watershed Par tners hip. 
Hahai no ka ua i ka 
ululā‘au: Rains always 
follow the forest. 
Histor ically, Kānaka Maoli 
were acutely aware of the 
importance of water and 
were experts in how to 
manage water, as reflected 
in this ‘Ōlelo No‘eau 
(Hawaiian proverb).  
For ests are crucial to 
groundwater recharge by 
preventing rainfall from 
becomin g runoff into the 
ocean.Because of their role in water catchment, forests are a  key 
part of upland watershed ecology.  Watersh eds are  “an  area 
of land, such as a mountain or valley, which co llects  rainwater 
into a common outlet,” and are approximately equiv alent t o the 
trad itional land divisions called ahupua‘a (Ha wai‘ i Association of 
Watershed Partnerships 2021c).  In addition to recharging 
groundwater, the forests in watersheds provide se rvices like 
flood con trol, recreational spaces, carbon dioxid e ab sorption,  air 
and water filtration, erosion control, and h abitat for  cult urally 
and ecologically significant species (Hawai‘i Asso ciat ion of 
Watershed Partnerships 2021d).  In 2003, the Haw ai‘i A ssociation 
of Watershed Partnerships was created betw een existing 
watershed partnerships and the State of Hawai‘i to  coordinate 
watershed protection efforts (HAWP 2021b).  Th e Hawai‘i 
Association of Watershed Partnerships currentl y consis ts of 10 
watershed partnerships comprising nearly 7 5 volun tary public 
and private partners and collectively covers over 2 .2 mil lion 
acres of land (Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partne rships 
2021a).  Watershed partners include landowners compr ising 
among  others, Kamehameha Schools, Department  of Hawaiian 
Hom e Lands, and supportive partners such as T he Nature 
Conservancy, Bishop Museum, and Kupu, which c ontribute 
expertise, capacity, and/or research to the m ission o f protecting 
Haw ai‘i's watersheds (LHWRP 2018, MKWA 2021,  KMW P 2021) . 
Being  joined together under Hawai‘i Associat ion of Watershed 
Partnersh ips allows for greater sharing of resource s, knowled ge, 
and collective advocacy power to amplify the  effect iveness of 
the se individual organizations and watershe d part nerships.  Th is 
scale of collaboration and multi-sector partne rshi p can serve  as an 
example to work together in a kāko u effo rt as  Hawai‘i prepares to 
face future complex challenges from a ch angi ng cl imate.
 86Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    87Sustainable Development Goal 16 PEACE, JUSTICE,  
AND STRONG  
INSTITUTIONS
This goal seeks to create and sustain inclusive societies with 
fair and just institutions at all levels. Targets relating to this goal include:•
Ending violence, abuse
, and mistreatment of people
everywhere by promoting the rule of law at national andinternational levels
•
Promoting equality thr
ough inclusive and representative
decision making
•Establishing accountable and transparent institutions
Overview
Hawai‘i has the highest percentage of mixed-rac e people in the United States, making up 
about 25% of Hawai‘i's population.  H
owever, prejudice and injustice against minorities and 
immigrant communities such as African Americans and Micronesians, among others, still exists 
(V
elasquez-Manoff 2019).  As discussed under SDG 3, low-income households, Native 
Hawaiians, a nd Micronesians face unequal health impacts and health insurance coverage 
compared to h igher income and other racial and ethnic groups in the state.  As previously 
discussed under SDG 4 educational disparities were also highlighted between between racial 
and socioeconomic groups.  Similarly, SDG 5 d iscussed the gender-based inequal ities that 
Native Hawaiian women face.  Finally, as discussed u nder SDG 10, there are opportunities for 
increasing equality in the state.  Thus, achievements in the o ther SDGs would likely positivel y 
impact SDG 16.
The COVID-19 global pandemic and movements demanding racial justice and equality in 2020 
have reinvigorated calls for justice.  The University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa's Truth, Racial Healing, 
and Transformation (TRHT) Campus Center team was recognized on a national platform to 
highlight its work to tackle historical and contemporary effects of racism in September 2020 
(UH News 2020b). Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to justice for all, and build effective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all levels
 88Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 16
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter §226-6 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives 
and Policies for the Economy
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-24 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for Socio-
Cultural Advancement—Individual Rights and 
Personal Well-Being
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes §226-25 of the Hawai‘i 
State Planning Act: Objectives and Policies for 
Socio-Cultural Advancement—Culture
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 92: Public 
Proceedings and RecordsHawa i‘i Revised Statutes §8-16: Peace Day
Hawa i‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 368: Civil 
Rights CommissionSets goals to provide equal employment opportunities for all segments of 
Hawai‘i's population through affirmative action and nondiscrimination measures.
Sets objectives to uphold and protect the national and state constitutional rights of 
every i ndividual a
nd assure access to legal assistance, consumer protection, and other 
public services, while ensuring equal opportunities for  individual participation in society. 
Includes provisions for the enhancement of cultural identities, traditions, values, and arts 
of Hawai‘i's people.
Supports sharing the knowledge and understand
ing of Hawai‘i's history and heritage.
Supports activities that promote cultural values, encouraging increased awareness of 
the impact of actions on Hawaiian culture, and promoting strong relationships between 
Hawai‘i's people and visitors.
The formation and conduct of public policy—th e discussions, deliberations, decisions, 
and action of governmental agencies—shall be conducted as openly as possible.Recognizes September 21 of every year as “Peace Day” in order to promote peace 
programs, improve international relations, and increase educational awareness of 
peace.
Prevents discrimination on the basis of race,  color, religion, age, sex, including gender 
identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or 
disability in employment, housing, public accommodations, or access to services 
receiving state financial assistance.
Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission Reports 
(2020)
University of Hawai‘i Strategic Directions 
2015-2021 (2018)Annual reports on Hawai‘i's commitment to strong state civil rights laws by rebuilding 
capacity, maintaining, and restoring resources for state civil rights law enforcement. 
Includes provisions to prepare more Native Hawaiians to assume leadership roles within 
the University of Hawai‘i and the community.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    89
SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
Photo Left:  Keawanui fishpond of the island of Moloka‘i.  Photo Credit: ‘Āina Momona.   
Photo Right:  Keawanui fishpond of the island of Moloka‘i.  Photo Credit: Mickey Pauole. Moloka‘i is estimated to 
have supported a population 
of 10,500 people prior to 
European contact (SFCA 
2000). 
 Today the island 
is home to approximately 
6,275 people, but the 
systems that once supported 
such a population size 
have been degraded by the 
impacts of climate change, 
land development, and 
colonization (U.S. Census 
Bureau 2019 a,b,c).‘Āina Momona is a Native Hawaiian nonprofit on Moloka‘i 
dedicated to rebuilding this community resilience throug h 
ancestral solutions and achieving environmental health and 
sustainability through four pillars: land, water, food, and 
restorative social justice.  They are based at the Keawan ui 
Fishpond and Cultural Learning Site where they manage the  
55-acre loko i‘a and 8 acres of agricultural land, both of which 
face intense erosion, groundwater depletion, and inva sive species 
threats.  With support from the Ceres Trust, the Conservation 
F
und, and the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric 
Administr
ation (NOAA), their team of community members  
work to revitalize the land and restore traditional food systems; 
and, in partnership with Kamehameha Schools, they will b e 
extending this stewardship and restoration t o the overall Ka‘amola
ahupua‘a.  Current work focuses on stabilizing the soi l and 
sheltering the Cultural Learning Site and loko i‘a against climate 
change-induced storms and winds.  To that end, ‘Āina M omo na is 
collaborating with the Māla Kalu‘ulu Cooperative to incorporate 
agroforestry on site with native species to restore traditi onal food 
systems, ensure ground water retention, and mitigate e rosion. 
Their overall aim is to create self-determination opportunities 
for Moloka‘i residents while also creating a scalable model for 
community-led restoration for other areas similarly impacted by  
climate change, and to restore the Ka‘amola ahupua‘a t o an ‘āina 
momona again. 
 90Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    91PARTNERSHIPS
Sustainable Development Goal 17 
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global 
partnership for sustainable development
This goal recognizes partnerships as a means of implementation for 
sustainable development and includes targets that address bolstering 
multi-stakeholder partnerships that share knowledge, expertise, and 
technology as well as hold themselves accountable. 
Overview
The ultimate success of Hawai‘i's sustainabilit y actions will rely on effective collaboration 
across organizations.  Currently, many partners hips  are already tackling issues related to the 
SDGs discussed in this plan.  These incl ude (but are  not limited to) the Statewide Sustainability 
Program; the State Office of Planning; County Plan nin g Departments; County Climate and 
Sust ainability Offices; Coastal Zone Manageme nt n etwork ; the  Hawai‘i Climate Change 
Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, the Aloha+  Chal lenge;  and  the Hawai‘i Statewide 
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy.
The COVID-19 global pandemic has brought more clarity  to issues that Hawai‘i can work on, 
such as inequality and an economy over-re lian t on tourism, and provides a chance for a “new 
nor mal” to develop as the state recovers from the pandemic.  There is a unique opportunity 
to engage with partners across government, n onprofi ts, the private sector, educational 
institutions, and the public to advance sus tainabi lity  in the coming years.
Partnerships are a key component of several state  policies and programs.
 92VOLUNTARY
INITIATIVES  The Aloha+ Challenge serves as an initiative to enab le public-private partnerships to also 
achieve H
awai‘i's sustainability goals. 
Hawai‘i's Commitments to Address SDG 17
EXISTING STATE LAWS & POLICIES
STRATEGIC PLANS Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-6 of the 
Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Objectives and 
Policies for the Economy
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §226-108 of 
the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Priority 
Guidelines and Principles to Promote 
Sustainability
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 226-Part 
II of the Hawai‘i State Planning Act: Planning 
Coordination & Implementation
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225M-2(b)(9): 
Office of Planning Responsibilities; 
Sustainability and Climate Adaptation 
Planning and Coordination
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes 
§225M-8: Statewide Sustainability
Branch
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-3: 
Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and 
Adaptation CommissionDetails provisions for achieving full employment and economic growth including promoting 
Hawai‘i as an attractive market for investment, penetra ting new markets for Hawai‘i's 
products and services, and fostering cooperation between government and private 
sectors in developing employment and economic growth.
Requires policy that emphasizes that “everyone, including individuals, families, 
communities, businesses, and government, has the responsibility for 
achieving a sustainable Hawai‘i.”
Establishes a statewide planning system to coordinate and guide all major state and 
county activities as well as to implement the overall goals, objectives, policies, and 
priority guidelines from the Hawai‘i State Planning Act.
Requires the State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning to develop, monitor, and evaluate 
strategic climate adaptation plans and actionable policy recommendations for the state 
and counties addressing expected statewide climate change impacts and provide planning 
and policy guidance and assistance to state and county agencies regarding climate 
change and sustainability.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to develop, organize, and promote 
policies and programs that assist in the meeting of Hawai‘i's numerous sustainability and 
climate policies and goals.
Requires the Statewide Sustainability Program to identify, evaluate, and make 
recommendations regarding proposed legislation, regulatory changes, or policy 
modifications to the governor, the legislature, government agencies, private entities, and 
other bodies for the purpose of encouraging activities that best sustain, protect, and 
e
nhance the quality of the environment, economy,  and community for the present and 
future benefit of the people of Hawai‘i.
Establishes the State of Hawai‘i Climate Mitigation and Adaptation Commission, which is 
administratively attached to the Department of Land and Natural Resources. 
Coordination of this advisory commission is headed jointly by two co-chairs: the 
Chairperson of the Board of Land and Natural Resources and the Director of the State of 
Hawai‘i's Office of Planning, or their designees.
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: Ten 
Year Measurement Update 2008-2017 
(2018)Provides an informal update includes a comp ilation, review and analysis of available 
metrics originally established by the 2008 version of the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, 
along with additional recommendations developed by the Office of Planning.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    93
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan: Charting 
a Course for the Decade of Action (2021)Serves as the revised and updated version of  the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan, 
provides additional recommendations to achieve within the 2020-2030 decade.
Serves as the State's climate and sustainability strategic action plan.SUSTAINING HA W AI‘I
According to a study by 
Gallup, social gathering 
places are the top driver 
of people's attachment to 
their community (Knight 
Foundation 2010).  While 
perhaps an intuitive 
conclusion, it reinforces 
the importance of fostering 
connection through 
placemaking and points to 
one way Hawai‘i's strong 
social ties can be maintained 
as com munities grow and 
change over the coming 
decade.In Ho‘olehua, Moloka‘i, the Lanikeha Community  Cen ter is the 
only large facility available for such social gather ings , mak ing  it an 
especially valued asset for the community.  Origin ally proc ured by 
the  Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance  for its kitchen  to assist 
farmers in created value-added products, rep eated interes t led to 
it also becoming a focal location for commun ity events: hālau hula, 
policy workshops for the community, weddings, a Kūpuna Program , 
and school fairs are just a sample of the diverse events  that have 
bee n held there.  The center was also renovate d in  201 7 through a 
State g rant t o better meet community needs, adding features  like a 
new stage, entertainment and sound systems, an upg raded ce rtified 
kitchen, and solar panels (Pactol 2018).  With  its titular  focus on 
farmers, the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance  dedicates  
much work to assisting them in increasing their economic  stability 
and market reach, but its efforts have since g row n to include the 
commu nity at large, and the center mirrors this  broader mission. 
Inde ed, the Lanikeha Community Center has helped  build new 
bridg es and inspired conversations about how to synerg ize the 
excellent work being done by Moloka‘i's many org aniz ations.  The 
CO VID-19 global pandemic brought further opportun ity to build 
this network to fill gaps in the commun ity.  Sin ce the pandemic 
beg an, Lanikeha Community Center has hosted  events such as toy 
giveaways, food distributions, and a monthly farmer's mark et—not 
only lessening economic impacts but also buffering s ome o f the 
pandemic's social disruptions and helping th e co mmun ity remain 
connected.  Ultimately, the Lanikeha Communi ty Center is  both 
reflective of and nurtures community members' d eep com mitment 
to their home, and it is positioned—physic ally and figuratively—to 
become anything the community needs.
Photo left: Lanikeha Community Center and volunteers from the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance 
supporting their community-based COVID-19 relief program to distribute food, produce, hot meals, 
supplies ( masks, sanitizers, etc.), and certificates for drugstore/prescription purchases in Moloka‘i. Photo 
Credit: The M oloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance.
Photo Right: A farm in Moloka‘i from a farmer participating in the Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. 
Photo Credit: The Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance.
 94Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    952021–2030  
RECOMMENDED ACTIONS
Hawai‘i has the opportunity to make significant progress toward sustainability over this decade, building on 
the momentum of the past decade. Public engagement on this plan update identified climate action as the top 
sustainability priority over the next 5- and 10-year periods. 
This section presents recommended actions over this decade, 
based on an assessment of: 
Overall, this plan identifies eight focus areas fo r this decade, each of which includes specific st rategies and 
example s of actions that can be taken to advance th e St ate's environme ntal, social, and economic sustainabilit y 
objectives.  The strategies and actions presente d in  this s ection draw from existing strategic plans, laws, 
policies, and input from public and stakeholder engagement.  Some actions can be addressed or begun 
immediate ly over the next five years; others build upon the fiv e-yea r actions or include longer-term strategie s 
that may  begin in the second half of the decade.  Fina lly, this list is not exhaustive but rather seeks to highli ght 
and encourage the adoption of strategic actions ident ified through existing efforts of state agenci es and ot her 
entities.
Photo Credit: State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i Tourism Auth orityAnticipated readiness 
for action, based on the existence of at least some of these commitments:
• The State of Hawai‘i has an 
existing sustainability targetcodified in law.
• Existing state-mandated
policies or government policies are in place to implement actions.
• There is a dedicated state
strategic plan that defines requirements for making progress toward the goalSense of urgency, as identified through public and stakeholder engagementPotential to address important themes identified through public engagement, including:
• Equity is either directly 
or indirectly addressed by implementation of the action.
• The action area is consistent 
with Native Hawaiian and localvalues, including:
–  Intergenerational equity
–  Exp licit honoring and 
protection of native 
practices (e.g., gathering) 
–  Use what you have before 
you build new
• Partnership opportunities 
exist for collaborating to secure funding and implement actions.
• The action area will benefit
local residents.Multiple SDGs addressed
 96Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    97LOCAL AGRICULTURE  
This section bu ilds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans, including 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §225P-4; Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Chapter 205; the Hawai‘i Statewide 
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy; and the Hawai‘i Tourism Authority's Strategic Plan. 
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.PROMOTE A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC RECOVERY2021–2030 Focus Area
Encourage the development of 
regional food processing and 
packaging facilities and food hubs 
across all islands to support local 
agriculture distribution.
Work with farmers to address 
barriers such as access to 
retention o f agricultural land, 
adoption of
 innovative 
technologies, affordable 
agricultural workforce housing, and 
irrigation needs.
Enhance the availability of 
financing to help farmers through 
mechanisms such as the livestock 
revitalization program and 
agricultural loan program. 
Develop and distribute locally-
relevant information and data that 
will help agricultural operators 
make informed business decisions.
Provide new and existing farmers 
with access to agricultural 
land, irrigation water, capital 
investments, training, and 
processing/packaging facilities.
Protect lands with a high capacity 
for intensive cultivation of food b y 
minimizing land prices or rents 
based on non-agricultural use.
Expand public outreach and grants 
to farmers, incentivizing the pivot 
to different business strategies. Encourage local food purchases for 
state-run programs including schools, 
universities, colleges, and prisons 
through a Farm-to-State Program.
Support consumer education programs 
that promote local farm recognition and 
inform on the benefits of buying local 
farm products (nutritional, economics, 
social, cultural).
Expand and improve branding and 
labeling programs to identify local 
foods.
Empower and inform agricultural 
producers what minimum quality, 
quantity, and timeliness is required to 
be able to sell local foods in hotels and 
local markets.
Support efforts that encourage the 
visitor industry to purchase local 
products and locally grown food 
whenever appropriate to reduce 
dependence on imports and increase 
local economic activity.
Support 
local food marketing programs 
to 
focus on people, place and products 
throughout the Hawaiian Islands.
Increase agricultural education within 
secondary 
schools, vocational schools, 
and colleges.  
Develop a seafood hatchery and new 
aquaculture farm  for local consumption 
and export.
Explore and invest in value-added 
products from Hawai‘i farms and 
support and educate farmers on 
promotional opportunities to create a 
Hawai‘i marketplace of products. 
Elevate the need for agricultural 
planning and investment to meet local 
food security targets. Encourage susta inable crop management 
practices (e.g., organic farming, no till, 
improved manure management and 
sustainable irrigation practices) that 
may provide environmental services and 
co-benefits, such as protecting against soil 
degradation, providing GHG sequestration, 
increasing biodiversity and soil fertility, and 
maintaining or increasing economic 
production of crops and animal protein in 
order to meet the state's doubling of food 
production goals.
Continue to support the education of Native 
Hawaiian pract ices and other cultural 
farming pract ices such as lo‘i farming to 
enhance local food productivity growth and 
protect Hawai‘i's environment. 
Continue to support the education of the 
genuine threat s of invasive species to local 
farmlands and  surrounding land habitats.
Ensure consistent funding for agricultural 
infrastructure improvements, operations, 
and maintenance .
Continue the Sta te's purchase of fee 
interest
 for available prime agricultural 
lands
 before they are subject to non-
agricultural
 development. 
Coordinate water reuse expansion efforts 
with the Department of Agriculture's 
Agribusiness Development Corporation.
Explore and invest in the technological 
advancement of Hawai‘i-based agriculture 
and food production, including indoor 
greenhouse growing opportunities.
Utilize more smart and high technology to 
improve agricultural production in Hawai‘i. 
Research and study proof of concept for 
large scale protected agriculture as an 
alternative to conventional agricultural 
production. 
Expand public outreach and grants 
to farmers, incentivizing the pivot to 
sustainable and regenerative, and 
greenhouse gas sequestration agricultural 
business strategies. Identify opportunities to provide 
funding for and encourage youth 
engagement in the green workforce.
Incorporate gre en job pathways at b oth 
high school and 2-year college 
programs.
Enlist the support of policymakers, 
educational administrators, and others 
to provide the
 facilities, resources, a nd 
incentives that nurture and enable 
research, innovation, and technology. 
Develop a local green job youth 
corps program that prioritizes the 
State's workforce development
 and 
economic diversification, while 
providing temporary work and training 
opportunities for young adults in 
natural resource management, 
agricultural development, conservation, 
renewable energy, or other 
sustainability 
professions.
Cultivate and sustain interest in youth 
and innovation, farm mentorship and 
other agricultural-related programs t o 
promote vocational interest in 
agriculture, aquaponics, and robotics.STRATEGY 1
Support farmer 
livelihoods STRATEGY 4
Invest in green 
workforce development, 
beginning with youthSTRATEGY 2
Support local markets 
for locally grown foodSTRATEGY 3
Promote sustainable & 
resilient farmland, 
practices, and 
infrastructure GREEN WORKFORCE 
DEVELOPMENT AND 
EDU CATION
This section builds on recommendations 
from existing laws, policies, and strategic 
action plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive 
 98
GREEN WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT ANDEDUCATIONDIVERSIFIED 
ECONOMY  
This section builds on 
recommendations from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic action 
plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy. REGENERATIVE TOURISM 
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy,  F
orest Action Plan, and Hawai‘i 
Tourism Authority's Strategic Plan. Recommendations were also 
identified through state, c
ounty, stakeholder, and public input. 
Encourage innovation, entrepreneurship, 
and small business development.
Provide Hawai‘i small business  and 
entrepreneurial
 support and enhance 
skill-building opportunities and w orkforce 
retraining.
Strengthen existing partnerships and 
form new ones to enhance high quality 
job creation in Hawai‘i.
Provide workers with skills to adapt to 
job changes, navigate between careers, 
and create an adaptive workfor ce. 
Develop Hawai‘i's vulnerable workforce 
to include adaptive skills desirable 
in the 21st century job environment, 
leading to greater adaptability, higher 
probability to find work, and pivot during 
or soon after future economic shocks. 
Develop local manufacturing periphery 
(including local creative agencies), and 
business to business (B2B) services. 
Increase investment opportunity for l ocal 
manufacturing. 
Develop sustainable, resiliency-oriented 
products to be 
manufactured locally.
Support business pivots, revenue 
diversity, product manufacturing, and 
sales of local products. 
Integrate circular economic principles in 
local manufacturing opportunities. 
Prioritize resources to stimulate 
development of economic clusters, and 
the competitive advantages shared and 
invested in locally. 
Increase digital and financial literacy 
within Hawai‘i's schools and workforce. 
Foster an ecosystem of innovation, 
research, education, and 
entrepreneurship that creates living-
wage jobs and a diversified economy.Develop emerging industries and 
diversify economic clusters.
Develop creative industry 
infrastructure.
Provide post-production creative 
industry training.
Build a robust media and entertainment 
complex to develop the film industry. 
Strengthen vocational workforce 
training to high-paying creative industry 
jobs. 
Connect local creative industry artists 
to online platforms for sales and 
marketing. 
Empower creative industry content 
creators to market their projects.
Grow three priority sectors: Healthcare 
(including clinical and community 
health), Technology (including IT and 
clean energy), and Skilled Trades 
(including sustainable agriculture, 
manufacturing, sustainable 
development, and construction) . Identify the impacts of and best practices for 
ecotourism. 
Evaluate the feasibility of a state certification 
program to provide authentic ecotourism 
opportunities while also providing for 
enhanced protection of  natural and cultural 
resources.
Assist and recognize visit
or industry 
businesses that operate in an 
environmentally and socially responsible 
manner, including local
 food purchasing, 
waste reduction, and reducing petroleum-
based energy, and water use.
Launch a collaborative t
ourism-based 
environmental sustainability program with 
natural resource partner s to mitigate visitor 
impacts and support responsible tourism 
initiatives.
Protect and enhance re
cognition of Hawai‘i 
as a green destination. 
Incentivize and facilitate a shift to a 
regenerative visitor in dustry that has a 
smaller footprint and
 that aims to sustain and 
improve the quality of life for Hawai‘i 
residents. 
Mitigate impacts of tourism from a 
community standpoint through conducting 
the destination manageme nt 
planning 
process statewide. 
Promote Hawai‘i’s sustainability, natural 
resources, local agriculture, and climate-
resilience through Hawai‘i tourism marketing 
and branding. 
Enable Hawai‘i tourism to contribute to the 
regeneration of Hawai‘i’s natural beauty, 
resources, and unique culture.
Develop a framework for 
a comprehensive 
sea level adaptation and resilience plan for 
the Waikīkī Special District.Monitor local infrastructure to 
support resident
 and visitor activity, 
assist counties in building capacity 
to service international flights, 
provide eco- and green tourism 
opportunities in balance with 
community input.
Convene community, government, 
and industry networks to support 
destination management and 
increase collaboration in 
responding t o negative tourism 
impacts on H awai‘i's commun ities.
Provide members of the 
visitor industry with access 
to comprehensive Hawaiian c ultural 
training, curriculum, and 
programming.
Enhance the visitor experience with 
programs that create and nurtu
re a 
Hawaiian sense of place.STRATEGY 5
Foster the development 
of jobs that can sustain 
families financiallySTRATEGY 6
Support diversification 
of the economySTRATEGY 7
Reduce the 
environmental footprint 
of the tourism industrySTRATEGY 8
Support native 
Hawaiian culture & 
reduce impacts of the 
tourism industry to 
local communities
Development Strategy, Aloha+ 
Challenge, and University of 
Hawai‘i Strategic Directions. 
Recommendations were also 
identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
Hawai'i 2050 Sus tainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||     992021–2030 Focus Area
REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Develop a Climate Action Plan to 
meet the State's Zero Emissions Clean 
Economy Target by 20 45, using 
Science Based Targe ts and the IPCC 
reports.
Require emission reductions by se tting 
a more stringent post-2020 
sector-wide cap.
Continue to measure GHG emissions 
through periodic updates of the state's 
GHG inventory.
Identify types of agricultural and 
aquacultural practices, public land and 
marine use policies, and on-farm 
managing practices that would provide 
greenhouse gas be nefits and resul t in 
tangible econ omic benefits to 
agric ultural  and aquacultural 
operations.
Estab lish short-term and long-te rm 
benchmarks that would indicate 
how effectively agricultural and 
aquacultural activities have helped to 
reach the State's Zero Emission Clean 
Economy Target by 2045.
Explore establishing net-zero GH G 
goals for all projects, including 
construction and infrastructure 
projects, to meet Hawai‘i's Zero 
Emissions Clean Economy Target by 
2045.
Encourage smart- growth st rategies to 
foster urban infill development and re-
development to sign ificantly reduce 
the numb er of vehicular trips take n, 
reduce  traffic and congestion, a nd 
GHG emissions.Screen projects over a particular size 
for impact on climate change mitigation 
or achievement of other SDGs.
Consider the impact of agency plans, 
decisions, and strategies on the S tate's 
ability to achieve its climate  and 
sustainability goals—including  the 
State's ability to achieve th
e Zero 
Emissions Clean Economy Target by 
2045—weighed appropriately against 
their primary purpose.
Give consideration to climate change 
planning in land use planning. 
Investigate the possibility of 
establishing a fund to support and 
incentivize voluntary greenhouse 
gas reduction measures and set 
funding criteria that will make the m ost 
economic sense of the state 
(including from: voluntary contributions 
from individuals or organizations, tax 
revenue, utility ratepayer revenue, or 
financial institutions).Improve the awareness and 
understanding of energy resources by 
investing in ongoing community-based 
energy education. 
Develop a clean energy public 
education plan and curriculum in 
coordination with institutions of public 
education.
Create incentives for energy-efficient 
behavior.
Study how energy conservation can 
be used as an incentive for, and 
complement to, water conservation.Advance the 1- year, 2-year, an d 5-year 
actions identified in the 2020  Hawai‘i Stat e 
Energy Office (HSEO) Annual Report on 
energy efficiency, clean transportation, 
energy assura nce and resiliency, and 
renewable ene rgy deployment.
Align policies and processes to enable 
adoption of mo re renewable energy 
sources and accelerate the adoption of 
storage.
Enable grid imp rovements and 
modernization  toward greater 
interconnection of renewable resources.
Work on innova tive clean ene rgy initiative s 
(for example,  biofuels, hydr ogen, 
microgrids, wo rking with community-friendly 
developers).
Expand micro-g ridding, grid planning, 
cluster-based energy, and smart meters 
throughout the  state. 
Increase rene wable energy in stallations 
through energy performance contracts. 
Increase solar and storage bat tery projects. 
Increase statewide rooftop ph otovoltaic 
installation.
Encourage and expand zero emissions 
vehicle charging in public ar eas, 
commercial area s, workplaces, households, 
and apartment dwellings. 
Improve access to energy efficiency, 
renewable ene rgy, and zero emissions 
vehicle charging options for rental units an d 
condos. 
Inspire and tra nsform Hawai‘i's clean 
energy future and expand the use of 
hydrogen fuel cell technology. 
Educate the g eneral public on the benefits 
of hydrogen fu el cell technology. GHG EMISSIONS 
This section builds on recommendations from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic action plans, i ncluding Hawa
i‘i Revised 
Statutes §225P-4 and §225P-5, and the Carbon Offset Feasibility 
Report. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input. CLEAN & EFFICIENT ENERGY 
These strategies build upon recommendations  from existing 
laws, policies, and strategic  action plans, including the Hawai‘i 
Statewide Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy, HSE O Annual 
Reports, the Water Resource Protection Plan, and the O‘ahu  Resilience 
Strategy. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
STRATEGY 9  
Measure, manage, and plan  
for GHG emission reductionSTRATEGY 12 
Continue to invest in the 
deployment of clean 
energy technologies to 
reduce reliance on fossil 
fuelsSTRATEGY 10
Incorporate climate change 
planning into decision-
making processesSTRATEGY 11 
Promote energy 
conservation and efficiency 
through outreach, 
com munication, and 
community and public 
engagement
 100
REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Implement expanded infrastructure for 
ZEVs, including energy storage and 
increasing the availability  of electric 
charging and hydrogen fueling stations.
Adopt a plan for statewide adoption o f 
ZEVs.
Incorporate ZEVs into State and 
County government fleet.Promote safe, connected multimodal 
transportation  options focusin g on 
equitable opportunities to walk, bike, 
and rely on other forms of active 
transportation to connect to transit.
Develop bike and pedestrian pathway 
networks statewide to increase  
multimodal con nectivity.  
Create transportation hubs designed 
to facilitate transfer from one mode of 
transportation to other modes of  
transportation  while enhancing rider 
comfort and safe ty. 
Expand public transportation  systems 
to facilitate home to work commuting 
in areas with  the greatest economic 
need.
Modernize transportation planning 
and projects to:  enhance equit y for all 
communities, reduce transportation 
costs to residen ts, minimize injuries 
and fatalities, improve public health 
and quality of life, and redu ce 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
Use travel demand forecasting and 
other tools t o assess future road 
capacities and  the effectiveness of 
alternative mod es of travel.
Promote alternative transportation 
options in the development of new 
communities an d infrastructure . Advance sustainable purchasing 
practices for state, county, and 
commercial procurement. 
Use financial mechanisms to 
incentivize
 waste reduction.
Update the Department of Health 
(DOH)
 Health Code as needed to 
increase the
 use of reusables in food 
service. 
Develop strategies to encourage plastic 
reduction and reuse in the food service 
industry, such as reusable container 
incentive programs for customers.
Develop recommendations for the 
implementation of a uniform, statewide 
policy for single-use plastics such 
as plastic bags and polystyrene 
foam containers that can replace 
existing county ordinances and p rovide 
businesses with laws that are 
consistent throughout the state.
Study and develop recommendations 
to implement extended producer 
responsibility to address solid waste, 
including bulky items and plastic 
packaging.
Review and update existing legislation 
to achieve statewide waste reduction 
goals.
Establish a 5-year state-facilitated 
education campaign about waste 
reduction.Reduce waste t hrough encourag ing 
source reductio n and increased  use 
of repairing, recycling, and 
composting services for residential, 
commercial, g overnmental, and 
industrial wa ste.
Accelerate regional composting 
statewide. 
Require owners and managers of 
multi-family dwellings and multi-
tenant commercial buildings to 
provide recycling services.
Comply with la ws requiring 
recycling in state-owned facilities.
Expand opportu nities for met hane 
capture and reuse at landfills, 
waste-to-energy facilities, 
wastewater tre atment facilities, and 
anaerobic digesters.
Evaluate recycling opportunit ies for 
large volume a nd hazardous wa ste 
streams, such as photo-voltaic solar 
panels and lit hium-ion batte ries 
from electric vehicles.
Update the St ate's Integrated  Solid 
Waste Manageme nt Plan.
Review and upda te existing 
legislation t o achieve state wide 
diversion goals.WASTE MANAGEMENT  
This section builds on recommendations from e xisting laws, 
policies, and strategic action plans, including the Department of Health's 
Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report, County of Hawai‘i's 
Climate Action Plan, the Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan T en Year 
Measurement Report, and the O‘ahu Resilience
 Strategy. Recommendations 
were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.SUSTAINABLE 
TRANSPORTATION
STRATEGY 13 
Expand the adoption of 
zero emission vehicles 
(ZEVs)STRATEGY 14 
Promote alternative 
modes of transportationSTRATEGY 15 
Reduce the generation 
of waste, including 
plastic  wasteSTRATEGY 16 
Increase diversion of 
waste through 
recycling, reuse, and 
compostingThese strategies  build upon existing laws, policies, and strategic action 
plans, including Hawai‘i Revised Statutes §196-9, the Honolulu Annual 
Sustainability Report, and the Hawai‘i County Climate Action Plan. 
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder,
 and public input.
Haw ai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    101
2021–2030 Focus Area
IMPR O
VE CLIMATE RESILIENCE 
Improve interagency and intragovernmental 
coordination to assess and address impacts 
from sea level rise, flooding,  drought, heat, 
wildfire, and other climate-relate d hazards. 
Inventory and analyze critical infrastructure 
assets threatened by climate-related 
hazards (e.g., those along shoreline 
threatened by chronic and episodic coastal 
hazards and future sea level rise 
projections). 
Investigate the financial risk to /exposure of 
the state associated with climate change. 
Study the impacts of sea level rise 
projections on cultural and archeolo gical 
resources, such as gathering sites, 
fishponds or fish traps (loko i‘a), places of 
worship and shrines (he iau), and 
petroglyphs (ki‘i pohaku). 
Coordinate across agencies with 
operational responsibilities over state 
facilities to: identify existing and planned 
facilities that are vulnerable to climate-
related hazards; assess options to increase 
the resilience of those facilities; and report 
on progress made in implementing 
adaptation strategies in future plans, 
programs, and capital improveme nt needs 
and decisions.
Develop a statewide Climat e Adaptation 
and Resilience Implementation Plan.
Incorporate regional managed retreat or 
strategic relocation analysis into  planning. 
Study the feasibility of and prioritize nature-
based solutions (e.g., on  Hawai‘i's high 
energy shorelines to manage and mitigate 
erosion).  
Include the increased and changing risks of 
chemical contamination due to sea level 
rise and increased flooding from climate 
change in future updates to the Hawai‘i 
2050 Sustainability Plan and 2017 Sea 
Level Rise Vulnerabilit y and Adaptation 
Report, and incorporate efforts to mitigate 
risks in state, county, and local planning.Develop a netwo rk of commun ity 
resilience hub s. 
Engage state and county agencies, 
private secto r, and nonprofit 
organizations in identifying the most 
critical climat e risks facing the state. 
Invest in the continued monitoring and 
research on th e impacts of weather 
hazards under climate change on the 
state and mitigation measures.
Increase public awareness about 
climate risks facing the state, counties, 
and the public and actions th ey can 
take individua lly to increase  their 
resilience and  minimize negative 
impacts.Establish an emergency food supply 
and storage st rategy. 
Identify
 and select adaptation 
strategies
 (e.g., infrastructure 
investments, policy changes) that 
increase Hawai‘i's resilience while 
upholding the goals of doing so 
equitably (e.g., using an equity lens 
framework) and in line with Native 
Hawaiian, Traditional Ecological 
Knowledge, and local values. 
Articulate the business case for 
investments
 in resilience strategies 
(estimating costs of inaction 
as well as financial benefits of 
investments) to ensure reliable 
energy,
 transportation fuel, and other 
s
ystems. 
Seek federal funding to increase the 
resilience of Hawai‘i's infrastructure 
and other assets (through 
implementation
 of strategies to 
protect, accommodate, and/or 
relocate).Develop a Socia l Vulnerability Index to 
identify populations most at r isk.
Apply the Social Vulnerabilit y Index 
(SVI) to develop climate ada ptation 
strategies th at are targeted  to 
addressing vulnerabilities. 
Encourage community involvemen t and 
resilience by working with community 
members, match ing community pa rtners 
with funders, and initiating 
conversations between commun ities 
and the govern ment.STRATEGY 17
Integrate climate change 
adaptation and resilience 
considerations into 
planning and 
implementationSTRATEGY 20
Increase the resilience of 
vulnerable populations 
to the impacts of climate 
change and other shocks 
and stressorsSTRATEGY 18
Assess and communicate 
the impacts of climate 
change to residents, 
businesses, and 
communities most likely 
to be impactedSTRATEGY 19
Implement actions t hat 
improve the
 state's 
resilience to
 climate 
changeThis section builds on recommendations from existing la ws, policies, and strategic action plans, including t he Department of Health-Hazard 
Evaluation and Emergency Response Office Memorandum on Risks of Sea Level Rise and Increased Flooding on Known Chemical 
Contamination in Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Climate Change Adap tation Priority Guidelines, Forest Action Plan, O‘ahu Res ilience Strategy, Ocean 
Resources Management Plan, and the Sea Level Rise Vulnerabil ity and Adaptation Report. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
 102Utilize and fund integration of efficiency 
and green building requirements for new 
construction and major renovation projects. 
Explore further use of building codes 
and standards to improve and direct 
efficiencies among the existing and new 
infrastructure of the State of Hawai‘i.  
Strengthen Hurricane Sheltering to highest 
degree possible to withstand Category 5 
hurricanes. 
Establish a homeowners retrofit grant 
program for severe storm events. 
Ensure statewide resilient emergency 
power generation. 
Incentivize the use of green roofs. 
Study and implement green infrastructure 
design guidelines and policies. 
Support and expand on-site rainwater 
harvesting and stormwater management. 
Expand and integrate permeable pavement 
and concrete opportunities. 
Consider ecoblock/ecobuilding 
development to promote decentralized 
water and sustainable energy to reduce the 
development‘s carbon and water footprints. 
Consider underground cistern/detention 
infiltration chambers and above ground 
cisterns to collect and store rooftop rainfall 
and storm water runoff for water reuse 
strategies. 
Consider the adoption of a “one water 
approach” to provide integrated planning 
and implementation approach to managing 
finite water resources for long-term 
resilience and reliability, meeting both 
community and ecosystem needs.
Utilize green building performance tracking 
and metrics for building retrofits and 
consider impacts to building occupant 
health.Collaborate with design professionals, 
developers, and contractors to identify 
synergistic sustainability and greenhouse 
gas emission reduction strategies that meet 
larger State and County goals while 
supporting affordability and workforce 
development. 
Establish partnerships and capital to build, 
maintain, and enhance infrastructure  and 
fund the developm
ent of sustainable 
housing. 
Encourage innovative residential 
developments which result in: lower cost, 
the sustainable use of resources, more 
efficient use of land and infrastructure, 
greater convenience and privacy, and a 
distinct community identity.
Update building codes and standards 
in a timely manner to increase clean energy 
and energy efficiency, water reuse a nd 
reclamation, and material resource 
efficiency among existing and new 
infrastructure in the State of Hawai‘i. 
Prioritize and fund the implementation and 
adoption of standards such as LEED® and 
ENERGY STAR®, to the extent that they 
support increased
 efficiency of buildings 
within the state.
Continue to explore and support 
low-carbon building products to
 reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions in building 
materials. 
Continue to encourage development within 
existing urban centers to reduce
 vehicle 
miles traveled, reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, promote transit-oriented 
development planning efforts, and increase 
the efficient use
 of infrastructure to create 
distinct communities throughout Hawai‘i.
Emphasize existing building reuse and 
adaptation of Hawai‘i‘s extensive existing 
building stock to limit the embodied  carbon 
impact of new construction. 
IMPROVE CLIMATE RESILIENCE2021–2030 Focus Area
ADV ANCE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES
Promote human-powered 
transportation, multimodal systems, 
and connectivity throughout the 
state. 
Implement the  Department of 
Transportation's Statewide 
Pedestrian Master Plan.
Increase the urban tree canopy and 
increase dedicated bike lane miles. 
Integrate state and county 
transit-oriented development and 
smart growth measures in creating 
sustainable, livable communities.
Increase public availability
 of outdoor 
spaces and provide areas where 
people can interact with natur e and 
each other and  reduce urban  heat 
island effects.
Advance multimodal transportation 
systems into the land use planning of 
new communitie s and redevelopment 
of existing communities.Adopt ZEVs in school fleets (e.g., 
schoolbuses), where feasible. 
Expand more farm-to-school 
opportunities, including the ‘aina pono 
program. 
Incorporate sustainable development 
practices into educational curricula t o 
promote sustainability through 
individual actions as well as 
community-wide initiatives.
Plan and implement strategies to 
achieve net-zero energy use in 
schools  and universitie
s by 2035.
Establish a Sustainability Coordinator 
position for the Department of 
Education to support and incorporate 
sustainable practices in K-12 public 
schools and plan for meeting the net-
zero energy goal in schools. 
Reduce waste through encouraging 
source reduction and increased use o f 
repairing, reuse, recycling, and 
composting services in schools and 
universities statewide.STRATEGY 21
Advance smart growth 
initiatives 
and multimodal 
transportation systemsSTRATEGY 22
Advance sustainability in 
school and university 
operationsSTRATEGY 23
Integrate sustainable design principles into new and 
existing buildingsThis section draws from strategies identified in the priorities of the State's Climate Commission 
and recommendations from existing laws, policies, and st rategic action plans, including  the Aloha+ Challenge, Carbon Offset 
Feasibility Report, City and County of Honolulu General Plan, EPA Greening America's Communities: Greening Iwilei a nd 
Kapalama, O‘ahu Resilience Strategy, State of Hawai‘i Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, and the State of Hawai‘i S trategic Plan for 
Transit-Oriented Development. Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
 103
 Hawai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    2021–2030 Focus Area
ADVANCE EQUITY
Invest in programs that will provide 
students
 with digital content via tablets, 
laptops and
 other mobile devices. 
Provide free high-speed Internet 
services in
 public areas in and around all 
state buildings,
 public libraries, and 
schools. 
Enable rapid introduction of community 
broadband in areas that do not have 
effective broadband service. 
Identify barriers to the adoption of 
broadband and information technology 
services through
 collection of public and 
private sector data, including outreach 
survey activities. 
Expand broadband and increase remote 
work opportunities to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions from commuting, and 
address
 equity for rural communities and 
other
 broadband-dependent services.
Maintain a broadband mapping service 
to
 identify underserved communities.
Develop and implement provider and 
consumer incentives accordingly for  last-
mile installation or service subscription to 
encourage adoption and foster provision 
of
 affordable services in strategic areas.
Transition Hawai‘i's government toward 
more
 digital systems. 
Invest in and improve existing cable 
landing
 infrastructure. 
Grow the Statewide Geographic 
Information
 Systems Program.
Support and adopt the goals set forth in 
the Digital Equity Declaration for Hawai‘i 
adopted
 by the state's Broadband Hui.
Expand strategic broadband 
infrastructure
 to build a robust, resilient 
network including government-owned, 
non-profit or cooperative networks to 
enable all Hawai‘i residents to
 access 
the global internet. Implement strategies identified in the 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and 
Ten-Year Plan and the Hawai‘i State 
Functional Plan on Housing.
Implement alternative financing 
mechanisms to support affordable 
housing, such as mixed-use 
developments.
Establish public-private partnerships to 
fund the development of sustainable 
housing. 
Increase affordable housing 
opportunities for households up to 
140% of the AMI. 
Increase and sustain the supply of 
permanent rental housing that is 
affordable and accessible to Hawai‘i 
residents, particularly those with 
incomes at or below 80% AMI.
Support Hawaiian Home Lands 
Homesteading programs.Work to reduce current homelessness 
by supporting rapid rehousing 
programs t hat provide equitable 
financial a ssistance to help people 
access safe  housing. 
Combat future homelessness by 
identifying persons at risk and 
connecting them with homelessness 
prevention programs such as 
supportive s ervices, mediation in 
housing court,  and rent subsidies. 
Support permanent supportive housing 
for chronically homeless individuals 
experiencing the longest episodes of 
homelessness.
Review and implement best practices 
from programs such Kahauiki Village 
(O‘ahu), Huliau (Maui) or Kealalula 
at Pua Loke (Kaua‘i) that combine l ow-
cost housing models with on-site 
supportive services, and a specific 
preference for households transitioning 
out of homelessness.Boost childcare, eldercare, and 
education, and offer support for women 
whose jobs and family roles may have 
been especially hurt by the COVID-19 
global pandemic. 
Increase sustainable employment 
opportunities for all, regardless of 
gender identification.
Increase gender diversity across state, 
local, and private sector leadership 
positions.
Increase awareness of the gender 
spectrum across all levels of 
government.
Ensure the representation of women, 
youth, LGBTQ+ persons, and 
immigrants  within all levels of decision-
making.STRATEGY 24
Strengthen broadband 
access to support digital 
learning and online 
solutions in rural areasSTRATEGY 27
Continue to advance 
opportunities for all, 
regardless of genderSTRATEGY 25
Continue to improve 
economic and social  
sustainability of  
individuals t hrough  
access to  affordable 
housingSTRATEGY 26
Continue to implement  
strategies that reduce 
homelessness in Hawai‘i 
to enhance livelihoodsACCESS TO RESOURCES  
Actions in this section build on recommendations from existing laws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Hawai‘i Broadband  
Strategic Plan, Hawai‘i 
Housing Planning Study, Housing Functional Plan, and the State of Hawai‘i 
Affordable Rental Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan. Recommendations were also 
identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.GENDER 
EQUITY
This section build s on recommendatio ns  
from existing laws , policies, and str ategic 
action plans, inc luding the Femini st 
Economic Recovery  Plan. Recommendati ons 
were also identi fied through state,  county, 
stakeholder, and public input.
 104
ADVANCE EQUITY2021–2030 Foc us Area
INSTITUTIONALIZE SUSTAINABILITY
Continue to leve rage governme nt 
public-privat e partnerships to advance 
sustainable deve lopment goals.
Increase coor dination across 
government, nonprofits, the private 
sector, and communities to address 
and implement the SDGs.
Fund and staff  the State Sustainability 
Program and ot her statewide a nd 
county coordina ting programs 
responsible f or implementing the 
SDGs.Update portions of the Hawai‘i State 
Planning Act t o reflect current priorities 
for sustainability and climate  change 
adaptation (e. g., focus on t he update 
and modernization of the agriculture 
industry), including those identified in 
this plan.
Update the State Functional 
Plans that were not recently updated 
during the 21st  century, to align with 
climate change and sustainability 
targets and bet ter reflect th e current 
state of plann ing needs, with 
a  particular f ocus on the En ergy, 
Agriculture, Conservation, Recreation, 
Transportation, and Tourism 
Functional Pla ns. 
Integrate land use planning to a ddress 
Hawai‘i's compe ting uses 
of land to mut ually obtain local food 
production goa ls, affordable housing 
needs, sustaina ble energy goa ls, and 
conservation.
The State Sust ainability Pro gram 
should measure the progress of these 
recommendation s on every 5th year 
between the decennial update of 
this plan to e nsure progress t oward 
Hawai‘i's sust ainability goa ls.Procure environm entally preferable and sust ainable products,  including 
recycled a nd recycled- content, bio-ba sed, and oth er resource-efficient products 
and materials. 
Design and construct governm ent buildings that meet the LEED® rating 
systems or ano ther comparable state-appro ved, nationally recognized, and 
consensus-base d guideline, sta ndard, or system, except whe n the guidelin e, 
standard, or system interferes or conflicts with the use o f the building or facility 
as an emergency shelter.
Implement water and energy efficiency pract ices in operations to reduce waste 
and increase co nservation. 
Incorporate p rinciples of wast e minimizatio n and pollutio n prevention,  such as 
reducing, revising, and recycling as a standard operating practice in programs, 
including pro grams for wast e management in construction and demolition 
projects and of fice paper and packaging recycling programs. 
Implement strat egies to work toward on-site water reclamat ion and develop or 
retrofit infrastructure to support water reuse in 100% of government facilities by 
2045. 
Explore further opportunities to retrofit existing structures and to design new 
structures that  reduce our carbon footprint  and increase the government's 
ability to adap t to climate change impacts.
Maximize the u se of solar o n or around all state buildings and parking f acilities, 
especially for  new construct ion and major renovations.STRATEGY 28
Invest in staff and other 
resources to coordinate 
and advance sustainability 
goals across state 
agencies and local 
governmentsSTRATEGY 29
Update state policies to 
reflect sustainability and 
climate change prioritiesSTRATEGY 30
Incorporate sustainability into government 
operationsGREEN 
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONSGOVERNMENT CAPACITY TO ADDRESS SUSTAINABLITY
Strategies in this section build upon recommendations from existing 
laws, and policies. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Strategies in this section build upon recommendations from existing 
laws, and policies. Recommendations were also identified through 
state, county, stakeholder, and public input. 
Hawai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    105
2021–2030 Focus Area
PRESERVE THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT 
Work toward the 2050 cesspool 
reduction requirement and develop 
infrastructure to support the 
elimination
 of cesspools. 
Increase
 the shared understanding of 
green stormwater infrastructure 
among
 homeowners, government 
officials, practitioners, and private 
industry
 through continued outreach 
efforts. 
Evaluate the use of green 
infrastructure along Hawai‘i's 
shoreline
 and t hroughout the coastal 
zone,
 with the dual-benefit o f 
controlling erosion and other 
shorelin
e processes while mitigating 
the impacts of land-based pollution 
and inland flooding.
Sponsor symposia and trainings on 
green
 infrastructure installation and 
m
aintenance for professionals, 
homeowners, and advocates.
Identify adaptations needed to 
implement
 green  infrastructure 
successfully in Hawai‘i's unique 
conditions
 (topography, climate, 
soils, and development patterns).
Study the efficacy, cost, and  lifespan 
of green infrastructure
 and traditional 
water management techniques 
compared to the ‘grey‘ infrastructure 
currently 
utilized in Hawai‘i.
Ensure that water quality 
improvement
 and water reuse 
strategies are incorporated with land 
u
se planning. Establish mandatory recycled water 
use zones with in reasonable t ransport 
distances from major s ources of 
recycled water and e stablish 
i
ncentives for developers. 
Upgrade Water Reuse regulations t o 
allow unrestricted irrigation with R -1 
recycled water and allow use  of 
municipal delivered R-1 recycled 
water
 in individual residences for 
landscape and crops irrigation.
Allow groundwater recharge with 
recycled water for: use as a barrier 
against
 seawater intrusion, aquifer 
storage and recovery, indirect
 potable 
reuse, and as a flood m itigation 
s
trategy. 
Mandate use of recycled water  where 
available for golf course, l andscape, 
and agriculture irrigation w ithin 
d
esignated recycled water use zones.
Develop standards and guidelines for 
stormwater reclamation and reuse. 
Conduct water audits of public water 
systems to verify use and aid water 
providers
 in identifying water  losses. 
Develop water shortage plans for 
priority
 water management areas. 
Upgrade water reuse regulations t o 
encourage uses of graywater w ithin a 
development parcel with a
 simplified 
permitting system.
Ensure that water quality 
improvement
 and water reuse 
strategies
 are incorporated with land 
u
se planning.Protect coral r eef systems by 
establishing a network of ecological-
connected marine management areas, 
informed by ecological and socio-
cultural desig n principles cr eated using 
the best readily available science, local 
expert knowledg e including traditional 
ecological knowledge. 
Increase education and outreach  efforts 
to build a greater public awareness for 
responsible behavior affecting aquatic 
resources.
Support invasive species management 
and watershed protection.Expand the use of sea level rise 
and land cover data in conducting 
stormwater
 assessments and modeling.
Protect ahupua‘a that recharge 
freshwater
 supplies.
Evaluate the use of green stormwater 
infrastructure along Hawai‘i's s horeline 
and throughout the coastal z one, with 
the dual benefit of
 controlling erosion 
and other shoreline p rocesses while 
mitigating the  impacts of land-based 
pollution and
 inland flooding. STRATEGY 31
Improve water quality 
through reduced 
pollution and dumpingSTRATEGY 34
Manage climate change 
impacts to marine 
resourcesSTRATEGY 32
Support water  r euse  
strategies to  conserve  
waterSTRATEGY 33
Esta blish policies to 
protect Hawai‘i's unique 
marine ecosystemsCLEAN WATER
This section builds on recommendations from existing laws, policies, 
and strategic action plans, including the Ocean Resources Management 
Plan, Water Resources Protection Plan, and the Water Reuse Plan.  
Recommendations were also identified through state, county, 
stakeholder, and public input.MARINE RESOURCES
& ECOSYSTEMS
This section builds on recommendations from  existi ng l aws, policies, and 
strategic action plans, including the Alo ha+ Challenge, Forest Action Plan, 
Hawai‘i Coral Reef Strategy, Holomua: Mari ne 30 x30 Pl an, and the Ocean 
Resour ces Management Plan.  Recommendations were als o identif ied 
through state, county, stakeholder, and publ ic input.
 106
PRESERVE THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
Support long-t erm hydrologic monitoring programs to 
understand and document changes in watershed productivity 
that result fro m improved watershed management activities.
Increase research and monitoring of new emerging watershed 
and forest threats and develop approaches and management 
tools for controlling and reducing impacts on watersheds w here 
f
ound.
Identify specific areas, regions, or watersheds to target for 
concentrated efforts and collaborate on setting priority areas
 for 
watershed management with key federal, state, and c ounty 
agency partners, landowners, and stakeholders.
Support research on the effects of climate change on 
watersheds and water resources in Hawai‘i.
Improve collaboration among county water departments, the 
CZM Program, DOH, EPA, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
(USFWS), DAR, and NRCS, which have overlapping 
priorities, to jointly set future priorities, to strategically advance 
projects f or competitive grant opportunities at the local and 
national
 watershed-scale conservation programs, and to 
maximize
 the amount of watershed acreage being protected 
and the c onservation benefits realized.
Improve methods for targeting and communicating with 
communities and the public about the importance of w atershed 
management, the threats to Hawai‘i's forests, a nd the 
community's role and contribution to improving
 management of 
watersheds locally and across the state.
Improve monitoring, data collection, and information sharing 
between the watershed partnerships, various private 
and public land management programs, and the ISCs to 
consolidate and collect comparable data regarding watershed 
and forest health, location of invasive species, management 
actions being taken, and impacts of land management a ctivities 
on water quality and quantity. 
Continue to implement non-point source water pollution 
management strategies to restore impaired waters and protect 
high quality waters from non-point source pollution.Continue to fun d, manage, prote ct, and 
improve Hawai‘i's natural resources against 
climate hazards.
Identify the ade quate level of  hydrologic 
and climatic d ata collection needed 
statewide to e nable effective decision-
making about water security.
Improve recharge estimates t o include the 
best available  information on climate 
change impacts. 
Improve estimat es of stream flo w 
characteristics, particularly during low-flow 
conditions. 
Understand the  impacts of native vs. non-
native plant species on water resources 
and watersheds by su pporting research 
and long-term hydrologic monit oring 
programs. 
Construct new d eep monitoring wells in 
critical aquifers to gather and utilize dat a to 
identify impacts from pumpage, climate, 
and land use changes; verify fresh water 
sustainable yie lds; and monit or recharge 
trends. 
Reduce invasive species impacts through 
implementing Hawai‘i Interage ncy 
Biosecurity Plan .Restore and co nserve native forest 
species and ecosystems by using 
native species where possible and 
discouraging the use of potentially 
invasive species. 
Ensure that local and statewide climate 
change and drought plans, policy, and 
initiatives address wildfire. 
Monitor resource vulnerability to 
climate change through improved data 
collection and refinement of models 
that are specific to Hawai‘i.
Investigate and pursue opportunities 
for obtaining certification of  sustainable 
production and harvest p ractices for 
common market species. 
Complete comprehensive management 
plans for all state forest reserves. STRATEGY 35
Protect and manage watershedsSTRATEGY 36
Continue to adopt strategies 
that protect land-based 
natural resourcesSTRATEGY 37
Conserve working forest 
landscapes, protect 
forests from harm, and 
enhance public benefits 
from trees and forestsNATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION 
This section builds on recommendations from existing la ws, policies, and strategic action plans, including the 
Forest Action Plan, Hawai‘i Interagency Biosecurity Plan, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority Strategic Plan, 
Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change in Hawai‘i Working Paper, and the Water Resources 
Protection Plan.  Recommendations were also identified through state, county, stakeholder, and public input.
Haw ai'i 2050 Su stainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    107
Photo Courtesy: State of Hawai'i, Hawai'i Tourism Authority2021–2030 Focus Area
PERPET U
ATE TRADITIONAL 
ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE AND VALUES
Foster opportunities to recommit to 
traditional practices and principles as 
well as transmit and generate new 
cultural knowledge and practices to 
inform sustainability strategies.
Incorporate Native Hawaiian and 
Traditional Ecological Knowledge and 
practices in
 the planning for Hawai‘i's 
sustainability and the impacts of 
climate change.
Continue to require certain board a nd 
commission members to attend a n 
Office of Hawaiian Affairs-sponsored 
training course to ensure i ndividuals 
are familiar
 with their l egal 
responsibilities regarding Native 
Hawaiian rights and the public trust 
doctrine.
Prepare more Native Hawaiians to 
assume leadership roles within the 
community and our institutions. 
Elevate the position of Hawaiian 
cultural experts to develop standards 
and practices.
Support Native
 Hawaiian and other 
cultural festivals and events
 that 
perpetuate Hawai‘i's island culture and 
communities. 
Support programs that help
 to 
revitalize and  normalize ‘Ōlelo Hawai‘i. STRATEGY 38
Ground climate and 
sustainability strategies 
in our cultural 
foundationThis section builds on recommendations from  existing laws, policies, and strategic action plans.   Re com mendat ions were 
also identified through state, county, stakeholder , an d public inp ut. 
 108‘A‘O HE HANA NUI KE ALU ‘IA 
No task is too big when done togethe r by all
The disruptions brought about by the COVID-19 global pandemic created space to reflect on Hawai‘i's values, 
consider what makes Hawai‘i unique and resilient, and recognize some of the fault lines in our communities that 
make us vulnerable to shocks and stressors.  At the tim e of the development of this plan, the COVID-19 global 
pandemic looms large.  Recovery from the COVID-19 global  pandemic is both an enormous challenge and a once-
in-a generation opportunity to rethink what was considered unchangeable.  We can choose to innovate, to do 
things differently, to re-focus on the values and culture we want to perpetuate. 
Climate change will bring new challenges that Hawai‘i has not yet seen.  We will increasingly experience shocks 
and stressors due to climate change.  There is good information about the projected changes and many of the 
strategies recommended in this plan will  help increase the Hawai‘i's resilience. 
This decade is a critical time to act.
Hawai‘i has already made significant sustainability com mitments through laws, policies, and plans that reflec t 
our values.  For the first time, this updated plan presents these commitm ents as a collective whole and aligned 
with the SDGs.  There is much work yet to be done to achieve these sustainability goals and commitments. 
The strategies identified in this plan point to what is urgent to undertake over this decade. 
A successful Decade of Action in Hawai‘i  will require :
Strat egic prioritization of 
limited resources.  
When prioritizing investments, funders 
should evaluate whether the 
activity contributes to one or more SDGs, 
is ready for action (e.g., 
existing targets, policies, plans, 
and/or partnerships are in place), 
addresses an urgent need, directly 
or indirectly addresses equity, 
explicitly protects our values, and 
will benefit local residents. 
Development of metrics to define 
success and then enable measurement 
and tracking of our progress. 
Defined endpoints and metrics for success 
will make it possible to measure 
advancements and identify where gaps 
remain; in some cases, targets and metrics 
have already been identified whereas a 
collective vision will need to be developed 
in other cases.Identification and 
commi tment from lead 
and supporting actors. 
There are opportunities for 
ever yone (elected officials, state 
agencies, counties, community 
organizations, the private sector, 
students, and residents) to lead 
or supp ort efforts to achieve 
these strategies; collaboration 
will be essential.
A realistic timeline to work toward. 
We can get m oving  quickly on some 
strategies, for which sustained efforts will 
be necessary to make steady, incremental 
process.  Othe rs may require significant 
upfront planning, buy-in from disparate 
par ties, and securing financial support 
before a swift and dramatic change can be 
made.  Establishing and clear and feasible 
timeli ne that sets out incremental 
milestones will ensure greater success. 
Let's work together toward an equitable, resilient, and s ustainable Hawai‘i.
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    109
REFERENCES 
AAUW . (2020). The Fight for Pay Equity: A State Road Map for Ha-
wai‘i, 2020 Update.  https:/ /ww3.aauw.org/ aauw_check/pdf_download/
show_pdf.php?file=Gender_Pay_Gap_Hawaii   
Aldrich, Daniel & Meyer, Michelle. (2015). Social Capital and Com-
munity Resilience. American Behavioral Scientist . 59. 254-269. 
10.1177/0002764214550299. https:/ /www.researchgate.net/publica-
tion/281601274_Social_Capital_and_Community_Resilience 
American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy (ACEEE). (2020). 
2020 State Energy Efficiency Scorecard . https:/ /www.aceee.org/
sites/default/files/pdfs/ACEEE_ScrSht20_Hawaii.pdf  
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). (2019). 2019 Hawai‘i 
Infrastructure Report Card . https:/ /www.infrastructurereportcard.
org/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/ASCE-24199_Full-REPORT-2019-FI-
NAL.pdf 
Arizona State University (ASU) Office of Sex Trafficking Intervention and 
The Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women. (2019). Sex Traf -
ficking in Hawai‘i – The Stories of Survivors.  https:/ /governor.hawaii.
gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Executive-Summary-Part-II-Sex-Traf-
ficking-in-Hawaii-.pdf 
Associated Press. (2020, September 18). Hawai‘i's Unemployment 
Rate Ties for Third-Worst in Nation . https:/ /www.usnews.com/news/
best-states/hawaii/ articles/2020-09-18/hawaiis-unemployment-rate-
ties-for-third-worst-in-nation 
Brace, Andrea M., Todd W . Moore, and Todd L. Matthews. (2020). The 
Relationship Between Food Deserts, Farmers‘ Markets, and Food 
Assistance Programs in Hawai‘i Census Tracts.  https:/ /hawaiijour-
nalhealth.org/past_issues/hjhsw7902_0036.pdf
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2018, November 8). 
Unemployment rate lowest in Hawaii, highest in Alaska, in Octo-
ber 2018.  https:/ /www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2018/unemployment-rate-low-
est-in-hawaii-highest-in-alaska-in-october-2018.htm 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2021). Economy at 
a Glance: Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.bls.gov/eag/eag.hi.htm 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. (2021, March 23). 
Alternative Measures of Labor Underutilization in Hawaii – 
2020.  https:/ /www.bls.gov/regions/west/news-release/laborunderutili-
zation_hawaii.htm 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. (2021, March 5). Whole 
School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC).  https:/ /www.cdc.
gov/healthyschools/wscc/index.htm Cerizo, Kehaulani. (2021, March 11). 
Over half of eligible residents on 
Lanai, Molokai vaccinated. The Maui News.  https:/ /www.mauinews.
com/news/local-news/2021/03/over-half-of-eligible-residents-on-la-
nai-molokai-vaccinated/ 
City and County of Honolulu. (2002). General Plan: Objectives and 
Policies.  http:/ /www.honoluludpp.org/Portals/0/pdfs/planning/gener-
alplan/GPReport.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2018). O‘ahu General Plan Review Report 2010-2017. http://www.
honoluludpp.org/Portals/0/pdfs/planning/generalplan/GPUpdate/
GP%20Review%20Report_web.pdf
City and County of Honolulu. (2019). TOD Honolulu.  http:/ /www.hono-
lulu.gov/tod City and County of Honolulu. (2020). Climate Adaptation Design 
Principles for Urban Development . http:/ /www.honolulu.gov/rep/
site/dpptod/climate_docs/Climate_Adaptation_Design_Principles.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu. (n.d.). Revised Ordinances of Honolulu, 
Chapter 24: Development Plans. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/ocs/
roh/193-site-ocs-cat/977-roh-chapter-24.html   
City and County of Honolulu. (n.d.). Revised Ordinances of Honolulu, 
Chapter 30: Water Management. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/rep/site/
ocs/roh/ROH_Chapter_30_.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Board of Water Supply (BWS). (2016). 2016 
Water Master Plan. https:/ /boardofwatersupply.com/bws/media/files/
water-master-plan-final-2016-10.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2015). Making Honolulu an Age-Friendly City: Action Plan. http:/ /
agefriendlyhonolulu.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/Honolu-lu_Age-
Friendly_City_Action_Plan_2015.pdf 
City and County of Honolulu Department of Planning and Permitting. 
(2020, March 3). Brownfields Assistance. http:/ /www.honolulu.gov/
tod/dpp-tod-resources/brownfields-assistance.html#:~:text=Honolu-lu%
20has%20received%20two%20grants,cleanup%20for%20redevelop-
ment%20to%20occur 
Coleman-Jensen, Alisha, Matthew P. Rabbitt, Christian A. Gregory, and 
Anita Singh. (2020). Household Food Security in the United States 
in 2019. ERR-275, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Re-
search Service. https:/ /www.ers.usda.gov/webdocs/
publications/99282/err-275.pdf ?v=6835.6 
County of Hawai‘i. (2019). Resolution 322-19: Resolution Declaring a 
Hawai‘i County Climate Emergency and Requesting Regional 
Collaboration Towards an Immediate Just Transition and Emer-
gency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate. http:/ /records. 
hawaiicounty.gov/weblink/DocView.aspx?dbid=0&id=985350&cr=1  
County of Hawai‘i. (2020). County of Hawai‘i Community Develop-
ment Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Action Plan. 
https:/ /recovery.hawaiicounty.gov/Home/ShowDocument?id=302592
County of Kaua‘i. (2012). Kaua‘i Multimodal Land Transportation 
Plan. http:/ /plankauai.com/wp-content/uploads/Kauai-MLTP-Fi-
nal-compressed.pdf
County of Maui. (2019). Resolution No. 19-209: Acknowledging 
a Climate Emergency and Committing to an Immediate Just 
Transition and Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe 
Climate. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/DocumentCenter/View/120651/
Reso-19-209
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2012). Maui 
Island Plan: General Plan 2030. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/1503/
Maui-Island-Plan
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2016). Lā-
na‘i Community Plan. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/
DocumentCenter/View/105983/2016-Lanai-Community-Plan-?bidId= 
County of Maui Planning Department Long Range Division. (2018). 
Molo-ka‘i Island Community Plan. https:/ /www.mauicounty.gov/
Document-Center/View/8220/Molokai-Community-Plan-2018?bidId=
County Water Use and Development Plans. https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/
cwrm/planning/hiwaterplan/countyplans/
 110Creamer, Beverly. (2019a, April 2). Health in Hawai‘i: Good News, But 
Not for Everyone. Part 1: The Challenge. Hawai‘i Business Magazine. 
https:/ /www.hawaiibusiness.com/change-report-health/#part1. 
Creamer, Beverly. (2019b, April 2). Health in Hawai‘i: Good News, But Not 
for Everyone. Part 2: We‘re No. 1. Hawai‘i Business Magazine. https:/ /
www.hawaiibusiness.com/change-report-health/#part2 . 
Earthjustice (2013). Petition to Amend an Instream Flow Standard. 
https:/ /e963f10d-efd1-4673-b16c-54490dc7911f.filesusr.com/ugd/5f73cf_  
fe919461043a471a873a85cbbf756f1a.pdf 
Energy Information Administration (EIA). (2019). State Energy Data Sys-
tem. https:/ /www.eia.gov/state/?sid=HI 
Environmental Protection Agency. (2017). Healthy Benefits of Green 
Infrastructure in Communities. https:/ /www.epa.gov/sites/production/
files/2017-11/documents/
greeninfrastructure_healthy_communities_factsheet. pdf 
Environmental Protection Agency. (n.d.). Links and Resources About Food 
Recovery in Honolulu. https:/ /www.epa.gov/sustainable-management-food/
links-and-resources-about-food-recovery-honolulu 
Environmental Protection Agency. (2020). Understanding Global Warming 
Potentials. https:/ /www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/understanding-global-warm-
ing-potentials#Learn%20why 
Fernandes, Megan. (2019). Hawai‘i ranks among most energy efficient 
states in the US, report says. https:/ /www.bizjournals.com/pacific/
news/2019/10/01/hawaii-ranks-among-most-energy-efficient-states-in.html
Friends of Hanauma Bay. (2021). Restoration: Coral Restoration. http:/ /
www.friendsofhanaumabay.org/restoration/ 
Grossman, Dakota (2021, April 10). Health centers look to fill gaps in 
vaccination efforts. The Maui News. https:/ /www.mauinews.com/news/
local-news/2021/04/health-centers-look-to-fill-gaps-in-vaccination-efforts/  
Hastings, Z., Ticktin, T., Botelho, M., Reppun, N., Kukea Shultz, K., Wong, M., ... 
& Bremer, L. (2020). Integrating co  production and functional trait ap-
proaches for inclusive and scalable restoration solutions. Conservation 
Science and Practice.  https: //www.researchgate.net/publication/342932510_ 
Integrating_co-production_and_functional_trait_approaches_for_inclusive_ 
and_scalable_restoration_solutions 
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships (HAWP). (2021a). About Us. 
http: //hawp.org /about-us/
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021b).  History.  http: //hawp.  
org /about-us/history/
H
awai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021c). What is a Water-
shed?  http: //hawp.org/what-is-a-watershed/
Hawai‘i Association of Watershed Partnerships. (2021d). Why Watersheds 
Mat ter.  http: //hawp.org/why-watersheds-matter/
Hawai‘i Community Foundation, Hawai‘i Fresh Water Initiative. (2015). A 
Blueprint for Action: Water Security for an Uncertain Future, 2016-
2018 . https: //www.hawaiicommunityfoundation.org/file/cat/Fresh_Water_ 
Blueprin
t_FINAL_062215_small.pdf
Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance. (2010). Hawaiian Culture and Conserva-
tion in Hawai‘i.  https: //www.Hawaiiconservation.org/wp-content/uploads/
Culturally-Grounded-Conservation.pdf 
Hawai‘i Conservation Alliance. (2021, March 3). Addressing Threats . https: //
www.hawaiiconservation.org/our-approach /addressing-threats/
H
awai‘i Green Growth. (2020). Aloha+ Challenge. https: //alohachallenge.  
hawaii.gov/Hawai‘i Revised Statutes,  Objectives and policies for facility systems—in 
general, §226-14 (1986).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_
Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0014.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – solid 
and liquid wastes, §226-15 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0015.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – water, 
§226-16 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0016.htm
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—land-based, shoreline, and marine resources, §226-11 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0011.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—land, air, and water, §226-13 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0013.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for the physical environ-
ment—scenic, natural beauty, and historic resources, §226-12 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0012.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—culture, §226-25 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0025.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—education, §226-21 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0021.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—individual rights and personal well-being, §226-24 (1986). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0024.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advance-
ment—social services, §226-22 (1990). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0022.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Establishment of an office paper and other materials 
recovery program, §342G-45 (1991).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342G/HRS_0342G-0045.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Goals for recycled product procurement, §342G-
41 (1991). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342G/HRS_0342G-0041.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – telecom-
munications, §226-18-5 (1994). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0018_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – trans-
portation, §226-17 (1994). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0017 .htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy efficiency and environmental standards 
for state facilities, motor vehicles, and transportation fuel, § 196-9 (2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol03_ch0121-0200d/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0009.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i renewable hydrogen program, §196-10 
(2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0010.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, State support for achieving alternate fuels standards, 
§196-42 (2006). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrsarchive/hrs2006/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0196/HRS_0196-0042.HTM
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy-efficiency portfolio standards, §269-96 
(2009).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0096.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Specific research and promotional functions of the 
department, §201-3 (2009). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0201/HRS_0201-0003.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Priority guidelines and principles to promote 
sustainability, §226-108 (2011). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0108.htm 
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    111
REFERENCES 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Climate Change and Adaptation Priority 
Guidelines, §226-109 (2012). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0109.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Employment Practices, Chapter 378 (2013). 
https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol07_Ch0346-0398/HRS0378/ 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i climate change mitigation and adapta-
tion commission; general functions, duties, and powers, §225P-3 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HR-S0225P/HRS_0225P-0003.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—in general, 
§226-6 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0006.htm
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—informa-
tion industry, §226-10.5 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscur-rent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0010_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy—potential 
growth and innovative activities, §226-10 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0010.htm  
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural advancement—health, §226-20 (2014). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0020.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for economy-- agricul-
ture, §226-7 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0007 .htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for facility systems – 
energy, §226-18 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0018.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Renewable portfolio standards, §269-92 
(2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0092.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, University of Hawai‘i; net-zero energy goal, 
§304A-119 (2015). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0304A/HRS_0304A-0119.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Sustainable Schools Initiative, §302A-1510 
(2016).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0302A/HRS_0302A-1510.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Affordable Housing, §226-106 (2017). https:/ /
www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0106.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Hawai‘i Water Plan, §174C-31 (g) (6) (2017).  
https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol03_Ch0121-0200D/HRS0174C/HRS_0174C-0031.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Objectives and policies for socio-cultural 
advancement—housing, §226-19  (2017). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0226/HRS_0226-0019.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Zero Emissions Clean Economy Target, §225P-5 
(2018).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol04_ch0201-0257/HRS0225P/HRS_0225P-0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Energy retrofit and performance contracting for 
public utilities, §36-41 (2019). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/vol01_ch0001-0042f/HRS0036/HRS_0036-0041.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Coal power purchase agreements; prohibited, 
§269-48 (2020).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol05_Ch0261-0319/HRS0269/HRS_0269-0048.htmHawai‘i Revised Statutes, Office of planning, establishment; responsibili-ties, §225M-2 (2020).  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0225M/HRS_0225M-0002.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Renewable energy technologies; income tax 
credit §235-12.5 (2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol04_Ch0201-0257/HRS0235/HRS_0235-0012_0005.htm 
Hawai‘i Revised Statutes, Use of coal for electricity generation, §342B-36 
(2020). https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol06_Ch0321-0344/HRS0342B/HRS_0342B-0036.htm  
Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of Women. (2020). Building 
Bridges Not Walking on Backs: A Feminist Economic Recovery Plan for COVID-19. https:/ /humanservices.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-loads/2020/04/4.13.20-Final-Cover-D2-Feminist-Economic-Recov-ery-D1.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2005, July 1). Act 151 HB1342 
HD2 SD1 CD1, A bill for an Act Relating to State Planning. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/splsession2005/bills/sb1592_cd1_.htm 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2011, June 2). Act 8 HB1592 
HD1 SD2 CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Telecommunications. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dcca/broadband/ act-151/Act_151.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2014). SCR No. 69 SD1. Senate 
Concurrent Resolution Endorsing and Supporting the Aloha+ Challenge. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2014/bills/SCR69_SD1_.pdf  
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2017 , June 6). SB559 SD1 HD2 
CD1, An Act Relating to Climate Change. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2017/bills/GM1132_.PDF 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2018, July 5). Act 132 (18) 
SB2567 HD2 SD2 CD1, An Act Relating to Cesspools. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/wastewater/files/2018/09/Act132.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2019, June 26). SB375 SD2 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Agriculture. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2019/bills/GM1253_.PDF
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). SB512 SD2 HD1 CD1, 
A Bill for an Act Relating to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Incentives. 29-Apr-2021. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/SB512_CD1_.htm. 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). HB552 SD2 HD1 CD1, 
A Bill for an Act Relating to the Environment. https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB552_CD1_.htm 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
SB767 SD2 HD2, A 
Bill for an Act Relating to the Farm to School Program.  https:/ /www.
capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB767_SD2_.htm Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
SB817 SD2 HD2, A 
Bill for an Act Relating to Agriculture . https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/
session2021/bills/HB817_SD2_.pdfHawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
HB1149 SD2 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Land Use.  https:/ /www.capitol.
hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB1149_CD1_.pdf Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). 
HB1318 SD1 HD1 
CD1, A Bill for an Act Relating to Sustainability.  https:/ /www.capitol.
hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/HB1318_CD1_.pdf 
Hawai‘i State Legislature, State of Hawai‘i (2021). SCR No. 44 SD1 HD1. 
Senate Concurrent Resolution Declaring a Climate Emergency and Re-questing Statewide Collaboration Toward an Immediate Just Transition and Emergency Mobilization Effort to Restore a Safe Climate.  https:/ /www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2021/bills/SCR44_HD1_.pdf 
 112Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA). (2020). Area Health 
Reso urces File s. https: //data.hrsa.gov/topics/health-workforce /ahrf  
Health Resources & Services Administration. (2021). Find a Health Center. 
https: //findahealthcenter.hrsa.gov/ 
Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, Inc. (HIMSS). 
(2018, January 18). Lāna‘i Community Health Center Selected as 2017 HIMSS 
Community Health Davies Award Recipien t. https: //www.himss.org/news/im-
proving-community-health-outcomes-through-telehealth 
Henkin, David. (2017 , April 18). Flows Restored to Waimea River and ‘Grand 
Canyon of the Pacific. ' Earthjustice. https:/ /earthjustice.org/news/press/2017/
flows-restored-to-waimea-river-and-grand-canyon-of-the-pacific  
Hawai‘i News Now (HNN) Staff. (2018, November 8). Stretch of Kūhiō Hwy. 
damaged by floods to remain closed until 2019. Hawai‘i News Now. https: //www. 
hawaiinewsnow.com/2018/11/08/stretch-kuhio-hwy-damaged-by-fl oods-re-
main-closed-till/ 
Hofschneider, Anita. (2021). Hawai‘i Residents from COFA Nations Can Now 
Apply for Medicaid. https: //www.civilbeat.org/2021/01/hawaii-residents-from-
cofa-nations-can-now-apply-for-medicaid/ 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) (2018). Global Warming of 
1.5°C. An IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways, in 
the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, 
sustainable development, and efforts to eradicate poverty . [Masson-Delmotte, 
V., P. Zhai, H.-O. Pörtner, D. Roberts, J. Skea, P.R. Shukla, A. Pir ani, W. Moufou-
ma-Okia, C. Péan, R. Pidcock, S. Connors, J.B.R. Matthews, Y. Chen, X. Zhou, 
M.I. Gomis, E. Lonnoy, T. Maycock, M. Tignor, and T. Water field (eds.)]. https: //
www.ipcc.ch/sr15/  
International Energy Agency (IEA). (2021).  Net Zero by 2050: A Roadmap for 
the Global Energy Sector. https: //iea.blob.core.windows.net /assets/4719e321-
6d3d-41a2-bd6b-461ad2f850a8/NetZeroby2050-ARoadmapfortheGlobalEner-
gySector.pdf  
International Volcanic Health Hazard Network (IVHHN), Hawai‘i State De-
partment of Health, USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, Hawai‘i County Civil 
Defense, National Park Service, County of  Hawai‘i, CSA V, NOAA, and the USDA 
Farm Service Agency. (2021). Hawai‘i Interagency Vog Information Dashboard . 
https: //vog.ivhhn.org/ 
Jackson, C. Kirabo, Johnson, Rucker C., and Persico, Claudia. (2016). The E ffects 
of School Spending on Educational and Economic Outcomes: Evidence from 
School Finance Reforms. The Quarterly Journal of Economics , Volume 131, 
Issue 1, February 2016, Pages 157–218. https: //doi.org/10.1093/qje/qjv036 
KFF . (2019). KFF analysis of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC)'s 2013-2019 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveil-
lance System (BRFSS) . https: //www.k ff.org/other/state-indicator/
percent-of-adults-reporting-not-seeing-a-doctor-in-the-past-12-
months-because-of-cost-by-raceethnicity/?currentTimeframe=0&se-
lectedRows=%7B%22states%22:%7B%22hawaii%22:%7B%7D%7D%7D&sort-
Model=%7B%22colId%22:%22Location%22,%22sort%22:%22asc%22%7D 
KITV Web Staff. (2021, March 12). 12 Hawai‘i health care centers chosen to 
provide vaccines to underserved communities. KIT V. https: //www.kitv.com/
story/43490305/12-hawaii-health-care-centers-chosen-to-provide-vac-
cines-to-underserved-communities 
Knight Foundation. (2010). Soul of the Community 2010 Overall Findings. 
https: //knightfoundation.org/sotc/overall-findings/ 
Ko‘olau Mountains Watershed Partnership. (2021). Our Partners. http: //
koolauwatershed.org/partners/.  
Kotrba, R. (2019, December 14). Pacific Biodiesel and Hamakua Energy 
Sign Contract – Oct. 2019. Biodiesel Magazine. https:/ /www.biodiesel. com/
pacific-biodiesel-and-hamakua-energy-sign-contract-oct-2019/ . 
Lāna‘i Community Health Center. (2020). Annual Report 2019. 
https: //lanaihealth.org/wp-content/uploads/2019-Annual-Report-RE-
VISED-LCHC-With-Covers.pdf 
Leeward Haleakalā Watershed Restoration Partnership. (2018). The Partner-
ship.  https:/ /www.lhwrp.org/whoarewe.Loke, Matthew K. and James Mak. ( 2019). Reducing Food Waste in Ha wai‘i: A 
Primer.  https:/ /gms.ctahr.hawaii.edu/gs/handler/getmedia.ashx-
?moid=65942&dt=3&g=12
Mauna Kea Watershed Alliance. (2021). Our Partners. https:/ /maunakeawater-
shed.org/our-partners/.
McCoy, D., McManus, M.A., Kotubetey, K., Kawelo, A.H., Young, C., D‘Andrea, B., et 
al. (2017). Large-scale climatic effects on traditional Hawaiian fishpond 
aquaculture. PLoS ONE 12(11): e0187951. https:/ /doi.org/10.1371/journal. 
pone.0187951 
Mediation Agreement for the Waimea Watershed Area. (2017 , April 18). https:/ /
dhhl.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/20170418_Agreement.pdf  
Meyers, Talya. (2020, November 10). On a Small Hawaiian Island, Covid-19—
Finally—Rears Its Head. Direct Relief.  https:/ /www.directrelief.org/2020/11/on-
a-small-hawaiian-island-covid-19-finally-rears-its-head/  
Miyashima, Mika. (2017 , December 12). Mayors pledge 100% ground trans-
portation powered by renewable energy by 2045.  KITV . https:/ /www.kitv.com/
story/37053289/mayors-pledge-100-ground-transportation-powered-by-re-
newable-energy-by-2045 
Moloka‘i Homestead Farmers Alliance. (2021). Lanikeha Community Center. 
https:/ /www.molokaihfa.com/lanikeha-community-center 
National Park Service. (2018). 2018 Eruption and Summit Collapse. https:/ /
www.nps.gov/havo/learn/nature/2018-eruption.htm 
National Women's Law Center. (NWLC) (2021). Hawai‘i.  https:/ /nwlc.org/state/
hawaii/
Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA). (2018). Haumea—Transforming the 
Health of Native Hawaiian Women and Empowering Wahine Well-being.  
https:/ /19of32x2yl33s8o4xza0gf14-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/up-
loads/OHA-Womens-Health-Executive-Summary-1.pdf
‘Ōlelo No‘eau: Hawaiian Proverbs & Poetical Sayings. (1983). Collected, trans-
lated, and annotated by Mary Kawena Pukui, Bishop Museum Press, Honolulu, 
Hawai‘i. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2017). Hawaii's Largest Liquid Biofuel Crop Farm. 20 April 
2017. https:/ /www.biodiesel.com/hawaiis-largest-biofuel-crop/. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2019a). About Pacific Biodiesel. https:/ /www.biodiesel.com/
about-us/. 
Pacific Biodiesel (2019b). Pacific Biodiesel Logistics. https:/ /www.biodiesel. com/
logistics/. 
Pacific Business News (2019c). Pacific Biodiesel to supply Hamakua plant with 
biodiesel. https:/ /www.bizjournals.com/pacific/news/2019/11/01/pacific-bio-
diesel-to-supply-hamakua-plant-with.html 
Pacific Biodiesel (2021). Pacific Biodiesel Offers Insight for Hawaii's Energy 
Future. Pacific Biodiesel Quarterly News and Updates, February 2021. https:/ /
myemail.constantcontact.com/News-and-Updates-from-Pacific-Biodiesel.  html?
soid=1102919617057&aid=vT03_4xqRl8. 
Pactol, Catherine Cluett (2018). Lanikeha Re-Opens with a Facelift. The Moloka‘i 
Dispatch, 25 July 2018. https:/ /themolokaidispatch.com/lanikeha-re-opens-with-
a-facelift/ 
Penniman, T. (2018). Flower Power, Maui Nō Ka ‘Oi Magazine. https:/ /www. 
mauimagazine.net/flower-power/. 
Pruitt, A. S., Zhang, W ., Wu, Y., Bird, O., Nakamura, B. & Barile, J. P. (2021). 
Addressing Hunger & Food Insecurity among Hawai‘i's Families. Prepared for the 
College of Social Sciences, UH Mānoa and First Insurance Company of Hawai‘i, 
Honolulu, H.I. https:/ /drive.google.com/file/d/1e3MkhACuaFYxULdsf-
wx56Jp1psCMAm4t/view
Restaurants for Renewables. (n.d.). Restaurants 4 Renewables: From Cooking Oil 
to Clean Energy. https:/ /restaurants4renewables.com/
Selmants, P.C., Giardina, C.P., Jacobi, J.D., and Zhu, Zhiliang (eds.). (2017). 
Baseline and projected future carbon storage and carbon fluxes in ecosystems of 
Hawai‘i: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1834. https:/ /doi. org/10.3133/
pp1834
Serota, Nathan. (2020, August 28). Research chronicles improved conditions at 
Hanauma Bay during closure. https:/ /www.honolulu.gov/cms-csd-menu/site-csd-
sitearticles/1305-site-csd-news-2020-cat/39289-08-28-20-research-chronicles-
improved-conditions-at-hanauma-bay-during-closure.html  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    113
REFERENCES 
Severino, Sarah J.L., Rodgers, Ku‘ulei S., Stender, Yuko, and Stefanak, 
Mathew. (2020). Hanauma Bay Biological Carrying Capacity Survey: 2019-
20 2nd Annual Report. Prepared for the City and County of Honolulu and 
the Hawai‘i Board of Land and Natural Resources. http: //www.honolulu.gov/
rep/site/dpr/hanaumabay_docs/Hanauma_Bay_Carrying_Capacity_Re-
port_August_2020.pdf  
Sproat, D. Kapua‘ala. (2009). Ola I Ka Wai: A Legal Primer for Water Use 
and Management in Hawai‘i. Center for Excellence in Native Hawaiian Law. 
University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa. https: //www.law.hawaii.edu/sites/www.law.  
ha
waii.edu/files/content/Programs%2CClinics%2CInstitutes/Ola%20i%20  
ka%20Wai%20Final.pdf 
Star-Advertiser Sta ff. (2020, December 2). Hanauma Bay reopens following 
8-month COVID-19 closure. Star Advertiser. https: //www.staradvertiser. 
com/2020/12/02/breaking-news/hanauma-bay-reopens-following-8-
month-covid-19-closure/
State Foundation on Culture and the Arts (SFCA). (2000). Moloka‘i in 
History, A Guide to the Resources. Strazar, M.D. (ed.). http: //sfca.hawaii.gov/
wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Molokai2000_SFCA1.pdf
State of Hawai‘i. (2019). Housing Is Healthcare. https: //ltgov.hawaii.gov/
wp-content/uploads/2019/10/HIH_Brochure_Final_Revised.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Civil Rights Commission (HCRC). (2020). 2019-2020 An-
nual Report. https: //labor.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/HCRC-
2019-2020-Annual-Report.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Clean Energy Initiative. (2020). About the Hawai‘i 
Clean Energy Initiative. ht tp://www.Hawai ‘ icleanenergyinitiative.org/
about-the-Hawai‘i-clean-energy-initiative/ 
State of Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commission. 
(2017). Hawai‘i Sea Level Rise Vulnerability and Adaptation Report. Pre-
pared by the State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, 
Office of Conservation and Coastal Lands. https: //climateadaptation.hawaii. 
gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/SLR-Report_Dec201 7.pdf 
Sta
te of Hawai‘i Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Commis-
sion. (2021). Nature-Based Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Change 
in Hawai‘i Working Paper. https: //climate.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-
loads/2021/04/CRHI-Working-Paper-V5.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management (CWRM), 
Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2013). Hawai‘i Water Conser-
vation Plan. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/hwcp2013.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management, Department 
of Land and Natural Resources. (2019). Hawai‘i Water Plan: Water Resource 
Protection Plan, 2019 Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/
wrpp2019update/WRPP_ALL_20190 7.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management r, Depart-
ment of Land and Natural Resources. (2020). State Water Projects Plan 
Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/swpp2020.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Commission on Water Resource Management, Department 
of Land and Natural Resources. (2021). Hawai‘i Water Plan.  https: //dlnr.  
hawaii.gov/cwrm/planning/hiwaterplan/ 
State of Hawai‘i Constitution. https: //lrb.hawaii.gov/constitution  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2016). Hawai‘i Interagency 
Biosecurity Plan: 2017-202 7. https: / /hdoa.hawaii.gov/wp-content/up-
loads/2016/09/Hawaii-Interagency-Biosecurity-Plan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2019a). Agricultural Water Use 
and Development Plan Update. https: / /files.hawaii.gov/dlnr/cwrm/planning/
awudp2019update/AWUDP_2019.pdf  State of Hawai‘i Department of Agriculture. (2019b). Report on the 
Strategic Plan to Double Local Food Production and Exports by 2030. 
https:/ /hdoa.  hawaii.gov/blog/main/reports-submitted-for-legislative-
session-2019/
at-tachment/doa-act-151-slh-2019-strategic-plan-
report-2019/
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism (DBEDT). (1998). Hawai‘i Climate Change Action Plan.  https:/ /plan-
ning.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/HawaiiActionPlan1998.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2016). Analyses and Proposal of Hawaii Amendments to the 2015 
International Energy Conservation Code. https:/ /energy.hawaii.gov/wp-
con-tent/uploads/2016/07/Analyses-and-Proposal-of-Amendments.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2019). Self-Sufficiency Income Standard Estimates for Hawai‘i 
2018. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/reports/self-sufficiency/
self-sufficiency_2018.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development & Tour-
ism. (2020a). County Social, Business and Economic Trends in Hawai‘i: 
1990 – 2019.  https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/data_reports/coun-
ty_report/county-trends-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism. (2020b). 2019 State of Hawai‘i Data Book. Section 24. https:/ /files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/databook/db2019/section24.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism. (2020c).  Hawai‘i's Economic Structure: An Analysis Using Industry 
Level Gross Domestic Product Data.  https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/economic/
files/2020/04/GDP_Report_Final_April2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2021a). Brain Drain: Characteristics of Hawai‘i-Born Adults on 
the U.S. Mainland. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/economic/reports/Brain_ 
Drain_Hawaii_Born_Population.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism. (2021b).  Phase III Hawai‘i Defense Economy (HDE) Action Plan . 
https:/ /defenseeconomy.hawaii.gov/wordpress/wp-content/up-
loads/2021/03/HDE_ActionPlan_12-11-2020.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and Tour-
ism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation (HHFDC). 
(2017). The Hawai‘i State Plan: Housing Functional Plan.  https:/ /dbedt. 
hawaii.gov/hhfdc/files/2017/03/Housing_2017 .pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation. (2019). 
Hawai‘i Housing Planning Study, 2019. https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/hhfdc/
files/2020/01/FINAL-State_Hawaii-Housing-Planning-Study.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Business, Economic Development and 
Tourism, Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Development Corporation. (2020).  
Consolidated Plan for Program Years 2020 through 2024: Annual Action 
Plan for Program Year 2020.  https:/ /dbedt.hawaii.gov/hhfdc/
files/2020/09/ FINAL_5YR-CONPLAN-AAP_20200716.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education (DOE). (2019). Hawai‘i Department 
of Education Data Book: 2018 . https:/ /www.hawaiipublicschools.org/Re-
ports/2018HIDOEDatabook.pdf
State 
of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020a). 2030 Promise Plan.  
http:/ /www.hawaiipublicschools.org/DOE%20Forms/Advancing%20Edu-
cation/2030PromisePlan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020b).  ESSA Report Every 
Student Succeeds Act School Year 2018-19. https:/ /arch-prod-re-
ports-repository.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/essa/2019/999ESSARpt.pdf
 114State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (2020c). Hawai‘i Literacy Plan. 
https: //www.hawaiip20.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Hawaii-State-Liter-
acy-Plan_WEB.pdf   
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education. (n.d.). Wellness Guidelines. https: //
www.hawaiipublicschools.org/TeachingAndLearning/HealthAndNutrition/
WellnessGuidelines/Pages/home.aspx
State of Hawai‘i Department of Education and Board of Education (DOE-BOE). 
(2016).  Strategic Plan: 2017-2020.  https: //www.hawaiipublicschools.org/
VisionForSuccess/AdvancingEducation/StrategicPlan/Pages/home.aspx
State of Hawai‘i Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. (2011). Ho‘omaluō Ener-
gy Policy. https: //dhhl.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/DHHL-Ener-
gy-Policy.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. (2017). Historic Settle-
ment Reached in West Kaua‘i Waimea River Water Dispute . http: //dhhl.hawaii. 
gov/2017/05/05/historic-settlement-reached-in-west-kauai-waimea-river-
water-dispute/  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2013).  Hawai‘i Physical Activity and 
Nutrition Plan: 2013-2020. https: //health.hawaii.gov/physical-activity-nutri-
tion/files/2013/08/Hawaii-PAN-Plan-2013-2020.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2014). Hawai‘i Coordinated Chronic 
Disease Framework . https: //health.hawaii.gov/chronic-disease/files/2014/09/
CDFrameworkLR.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2016). Tobacco Control Strategic Plan, 
2016–2020. Honolulu, HI: Chronic Disease Prevention & Health Promotion 
Division, Tobacco Prevention and Education Program. https: //health.hawaii. 
gov/chronic-disease/files/2019/12/TPC-Strategic-Plan.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2017). Hawai‘i Sexual and Gender 
Minority Health Report . https: //health.hawaii.gov/surveillance/files/2017/05/
HawaiiSexualandGenderMinorityHealthReport.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2018). Good Food for All . https: //health. 
hawaii.gov/chronic-disease/files/2018/03/gffa-web.pdf   
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019a). Hawai‘i Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Report for 2016.  https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
files/2019/12/2016-Inventory_Final-Report_December2019-1.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019b). Water Quality Plan. Hawai‘i 
Department of Health. https: //health.Hawaii.gov/water/files/2019/03/FI-
NAL-DOH-Water-Quality-Plan-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2019c). Water Reuse Task Force Report 
to the Thirtieth Legislatur e. https: //www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2019/bills/
DC246_.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2020). Healthy Hawai‘i 2020 – A Com-
munity Health Plan (State Health Improvement Plan). https: //health.hawaii.  
gov/opppd/ship/ 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2021a). Hawai‘i Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Report for 2017. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
files/2021/04/2017-Inventory_Final-Report_April-2021.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health. (2021b). Clean Air Branch. 5 March 
2021. https:/ /health.hawaii.gov/cab/
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Clean Water Branch. (2021c). Hawai‘i 
Nonpoint Source Management Plan: 2021-202 5. https: //health.hawaii.gov/
cwb/fi les/2021/02/2021-02-12-NPS-Plan-Public-Comment-Draft.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Office of Solid Waste Management 
(DOH-OSWM). (2020). Plastic Source Reduction Working Group Report to 
the Thirty-First Legislatur e. https: //health.hawaii.gov/shwb/files/2021/01/
Final-PSRWG-Report-to-Leg.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Office of Solid Waste Management. 
(2021). Amended Annual Report to the Thirty-First Legislature State of Hawai‘i 
2021.  https: //health.hawaii.gov/shwb/files/2021/03/2021-OSWM-Annual-Re-
port-Amended.pdf State of Hawai‘i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. (2010). Ha -
wai‘i's Green Workforce: A Baseline Assessment. https: //dlir.state.hi.us/labor/
lmi/pdf/HawaiisGreenWorkforce_BaselineAssessment.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. (2021). Hawai‘i 
Green Jobs Initiative . https: //greenjobshawaii.hirenethawaii.com/vosnet/De-
fault.aspx 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2011). The Rain 
Follows the Forest: A Plan to Replenish Hawai‘i's Source of Water. https: //
dlnr.hawaii.gov/rain/files/2014/02/The-Rain-Follows-the-Forest.pdf#:~:-
text=The%20Rain%20Follows%20the%20Forest%20is%20the%20Depart-
ment%E2%80%99s,sources.%20The%20forests%20and%20their%20abili-
ty%20to%20capture
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources. (2015). Hawai‘i's 
State Wildlife Action Plan . https: //dlnr.hawaii.gov/wildlife/fi les/2020/07/HI-
SWAP-2015-FINAL.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2017). Coral Bleaching Recovery Plan. Prepared by the University 
of Hawai‘i Social Science Research Institute. https: //dlnr.hawaii.gov/reefre-
sponse/files/2016/09/CoralBleachingRecoveryPlan_final_newDARlogo.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2020a).Coral Reef Strategy 2030. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. gov/
coralreefs/files/2020/08/Hawaii-Coral-Reef-Strategy-2030-Final.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Aquat-
ic Resources (2020b).Holomua: Marine 30x30.  https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/dar/
files/2020/12/HolomuaMarine30x30_Roadmap_web.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of For-
estry and Wildlife. (2008). Strategic Plan for Hawai‘i's Natural Area Reserves 
System. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/ecosystems/files/2013/09/Strategic-Plan-
v2-4.  pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of Forest-
ry and Wildlife. (2010). Hawai‘i Statewide Assessment of Forest Conditions and 
Trends: 2010. An Assessment of the State of Our ‘Aina.  https:/ /dlnr.hawaii.gov/
forestry/files/2013/09/SWARS-Entire-Assessment-and-Strategy.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of For-
estry and Wildlife. (2016). Hawai‘i Forest Action Plan 2016. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. 
gov/forestry/files/2013/09/Hawaii-Forest-Action-Plan-2016-FINAL.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources, Division of State 
Parks. (2018). Hā‘ena State Park Master Plan: Final Report. https:/ /dlnr.hawaii. 
gov/dsp/files/2018/03/Haena-MP-FINAL.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation (HDOT), Airports Division and 
KYA Sustainability Studio. (2016). SustainableHNL Sustainable Management 
Plan . https:/ /airports.hawaii.gov/hnl/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2016/09/
sHNL-Sustainable-Management-Plan-20160809-PRINT.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Highways Division. (2019). 
Statewide Coastal Highway Program Report. https:/ /hidot.hawaii.gov/high-
ways/files/2019/09/State-of-Hawaii-Statewide-Coastal-Highway-Program-
Report_Final_2019.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Department of Transportation, Highways Division. (2021). 
Hawai‘i Highways Climate Adaptation Action Plan.  https:/ /assets.adobe.com/
public/452ba422-871a-4549-5c95-184cfe2e6aec
State of Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency (HIEMA). (2018a). State 
of Hawai‘i 2018 Hazard Mitigation Plan. https:/ /dod.hawaii.gov/hiema/
files/2020/06/2018-State-HI-HMP-Update-100218.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency. (2018b, August 23). About 
Hurricane Evacuation Shelters in Hawai‘i. https:/ /dod.hawaii.gov/hiema/
about-hurricane-evacuation-shelters-in-hawaii/ 
State of Hawai‘i Office of the Auditor. (2008). Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan . https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/sustainability/
hawaii_2050_plan_final.pdf  
Hawai'i 2050 Sustainabilty Plan: 2020 - 2030 Update    ||    115
REFERENCES 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of the Auditor. (2018). Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability 
Plan – Ten Year Measurement Update. https: //files.hawaii.gov /auditor/Re-
ports/2018/2018H2050.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning. (2012). Increased Food Security 
and Self-Sufficiency Strategy. https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
INCREASED_FOOD_SECURITY_AND_FOOD_SELF_SUFFICIENCY_ 
STRATEGY.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning. (2016).  Hawai‘i Statewide Comprehen-
sive Economic Development Strategy . https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
CEDS_2016_final.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of Planning. (2019). Feasibility and Implications of 
Establishing a Carbon Offset Program for the State of Hawai‘i . https: //files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/sustainability/feasibility_and_implications_of_estab-
lishing_a_carbon_o ffset_program_for_the_state_of_hawaii_finalweb.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i O ffice of Planning (2019b). Feasibility and Implications 
of Managed Retreat Strategies for Vulnerable Coastal Areas in Hawai‘i.  
https: //files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp /assessing_the_feasibility_and_ 
implications_of_managed_retreat_strategies_for_vulnerable_coastal_ar-
eas_in_hawaii.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning (2020). The Hawai‘i Ocean Resources 
Management Plan . https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/czm/ormp/
ormp_update_re-ports/2020_ormp_final.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning (2021). Hawai‘i Interagency Council for 
Transit-Oriented Development.  http:/ /planning.hawaii.gov/lud/state-tod/ 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and DBEDT. (2018). Affordable Rental 
Housing Report and Ten-Year Plan. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/
AffordableRentalHousingReport_10YearPlan.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and DBEDT. (2020). State Transit-
Oriented Development (TOD) Planning and Implementation Project for the 
Island of O‘ahu. https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/
lud/20200811_StateTOD-ProjectReport/State-TOD-PIP-
Proj_WebReport_202007 .pdf 
State of Hawai‘i Office of Planning and Hawai‘i Housing Finance and Devel-
opment Corporation. (2018). Strategic Plan for Transit-Oriented Devel-
opment. Hawaii Interagency Council for Transit-Oriented Development.  
https:/ /files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/lud/State-TOD-Strategic-
Plan_Dec-2017-Rev-Aug-2018_rev20190715_secured.pdf 
State of Hawai‘i State Energy Office. (2020).  Hawai‘i Energy Facts & 
Figures. https:/ /energy.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/HSEO_  
FactsAndFigures-2020.pdf
Hawai‘i State Energy Office (2021). 2020 Annual Report. https:/ /energy. 
hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/HSEO_2020_Annual_Report.pdf  
State of Hawai‘i Tourism Authority (HTA). (2020a, January 29). Hawai‘i 
Visitor Statistics Released for 2019. https:/ /www.hawaiitourismauthority. 
org/media/4166/2020-01-29-hawaii-visitor-statistics-released-for-decem-
ber-2019.pdf
State of Hawai‘i Tourism Authority. (2020b). Strategic Plan: 2020-
2025.  https:/ /www.hawaiitourismauthority.org/media/4286/hta-strate-
gic-plan-2020-2025.pdf
Truesdale, J. (2021, March 1). This Program Helped Big Island Farmers and 
Families. Now It's Out of Cash, Civil Beat. https:/ /www.civilbeat.
org/2021/03/this-program-helped-big-island-farmers-and-families-now-
its-out-of-cash/. University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program and State of Hawai‘i 
Department of Land and Natural Resources and Office of Planning. (2020). 
Guidance for Addressing Sea Level Rise in Community Planning in Hawai‘i. 
Prepared with funding from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration Office for Coastal Management. https:/ /climate.hawaii.gov/wp-con-
tent/uploads/2020/10/Item-3-I-a-Guidance-for-Addressing-SLR-in-Com-
munity-Planning-in-HI-2.pdf 
University of Hawai‘i. (2015).  Hawai‘i Innovation Initiative.  https:/ /
www.hawaii.edu/innovation/ 
University of Hawai‘i. (2018). University of Hawai‘i Strategic Di-
rections 2015-2021. http:/ /blog.hawaii.edu/strategicdirections/
files/2018/10/SD2.0_Revisions_2018_Update-2.pdf  
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020, September 8). UH Mānoa work to 
tackle racism takes national spotlight. https:/ /www.Hawai‘i.edu/
news/2020/09/08/trht-at-pullias-lecture/
United Nations. (2021). 
The Sustainable Development Agenda. https:/ /
www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/development-agenda/
United Nations. (2021). 
Decade of Action. https:/ /www.un.org/sustain-
abledevelopment/decade-of-action/
United Nations Environment Programme. (2021).  International Good 
Practice Principles for Sustainable Infrastructure. https:/ /
wedocs.unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/34853/GPSI.pdf 
United States Geological Survey. (USGS) Hawaiian Volcano Observatory. 
(2021). Frequently Asked Questions About Volcanic Smog (vog). https:/ /
www.usgs.gov/observatories/hawaiian-volcano-observatory/frequently-
asked-questions-about-volcanic-smog-vog 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020a, July 19).  Leeward CC becomes UH's 
first net-zero campus. https:/ /www.hawaii.edu/news/2020/07/19/lee-
ward-first-uh-net-zero-campus/
 
University of Hawai‘i News. (2020b, September 8).  UH Mānoa work 
to tackle racism takes national spotlight. https:/ /www.Hawaii.edu/
news/2020/09/08/trht-at-pullias-lecture/
University of Hawai‘i News. (2021, January 24).  UH Maui College 
achieves net-zero goal. https:/ /www.hawaii.edu/news/2021/01/24/uh-
maui-college-achieves-net-zero-goal/ 
USGCRP. (2018). Impacts, Risks, and Adaptation in the United States: 
Fourth National Climate Assessment, Volume II, Chapter 27: Hawai‘i and 
U.S.-Affiliated Pacific Islands [Reidmiller, D.R., C. W . Avery, D.R. Easterling, 
K.E. Kunkel, K.L.M. Lewis, T.K. Maycock, and B.C. Stewart (eds.)].  https:/ /
nca2018.globalchange.gov/chapter/front-matter-about/  
U.S. Census Bureau. (2011).  American Fact Finder: Profile of General 
Population and Housing Characteristics: 2010. 2010 Demographic 
Profile Data for Census Tract 316.01, Maui County, Hawai‘i.  https:/ /files. 
hawaii.gov/dbedt/census/Census_2010/demographic/demo_profile_ct_  
NI/2010dp_ct316.01.pdf 
U.S. Census Bureau. (2019a).  American Community Survey 
5-year estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for 
East Molokai CCD, Maui County, HI. http:/ /censusreporter.org/pro-
files/06000US1500990090-east-molokai-ccd-maui-county-hi/  
U.S. Census Bureau. (2019b). American Community Survey 
5-year estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for 
Kalawao CCD, Kalawao County, HI  http:/ /censusreporter.org/pro-
files/06000US1500590990-kalawao-ccd-kalawao-county-hi/
 116U.S. Census Bureau. (2019c). American Community Survey 5-year 
estimates. Retrieved from Census Reporter Profile page for West Moloka‘i CCD, 
Maui County, HI. http:/ /censusreporter.org/profiles/06000US1500993960-
west- molokai-ccd-maui-county-hi/ 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. (2017a). 
Census of Agriculture County Profile: 
Hawai‘i County, Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCen-
sus/2017/Online_Resources/County_Profiles/Hawaii/cp15001.pdf . 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. (2017b). Census of Agriculture State Profile: 
Hawai‘i. https:/ /www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCensus/2017/Online_Re-
sources/County_Profiles/Hawaii/cp99015.pdf
.
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
Energy. (n.d.). Biodiesel Benefits and Considerations. Alternative Fuels Data 
Center. https:/ /afdc.energy.gov/fuels/biodiesel_benefits.html. 
U.S. Water Alliance. (2016). One Water Roadmap: The Sustainable Management 
of Life's Most Essential Resource. http:/ /uswateralliance.org/sites/uswateralli-
ance.org/files/publications/Roadmap%20FINAL.pdf 
Velasquez-Manoff, Moises. (2010, June 28). Want to Be Less Racist? Move to 
Hawai‘i. New York Times. https:/ /www.nytimes.com/2019/06/28/opinion/
sunday/racism-hawaii.html  
Wu, Nina. (2020, October 27). Lanai stay-at-home order begins today as officials 
try to contain outbreak. Star Advertiser. https:/ /www.staradvertiser. 
com/2020/10/27/hawaii-news/lanai-stay-at-home-order-begins-today-as-offi-
cials-try-to-contain-outbreak/ 
Hawai‘i 2050 Sustainability Plan 
Charting
 a Cou rse for the Decade of Action (2020–2030) 
June 2021
Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ‘Āina i ka Pono  
The Life
 of the Land is Perp etuated in Righteousness  
A 
publication of the Hawai‘i State Office of Planning, pursuant to Act 146, Session Laws of Hawai‘i 2019.
