Source URL: https://hhsp.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan Search Home (current) Objectives All HHSP Sector Area Community Design & Access Education Health Care Worksite Program Area Asthma Cancer Diabetes Heart Disease & Stroke Physical Activity & Nutrition Tobacco About the HHSP Purpose Plan Framework Background Priority Populations Long-Term Measures Partners & Implementation References Program Areas HHSP Asthma Cancer Diabetes Heart Disease & Stroke Physical Activity & Nutrition Tobacco Summit Workshops Contact Us Healthy Hawaiʻi Vision 2030 Mural Healthy Hawaiʻi Strategic Plan 2030 The Healthy Hawaiʻi Strategic Plan (HHSP) provides a roadmap for preventing and reducing chronic disease in the state of Hawaiʻi through the year 2030. A large and diverse group of stakeholders contributed their expertise covering asthma, cancer, diabetes, heart disease and stroke, physical activity and nutrition, and tobacco programs. The plan identifies priority objectives in the following four sector areas: Community Design and Access Education Health Care Worksite Working on health priorities in these sector areas will create sustainable changes where people live, learn, work, and play, so healthy options become the easiest choice. This is a living document, and partners – present and future - are invited to work together to achieve the “Healthy Hawaiʻi Vision 2030.” View the HHSP Virtual Launch View the HHSP (pdf) View the HHSP Executive Summary (pdf) Browse Objectives The HHSP establishes data-driven objectives that transform our communities, schools, health care, and worksites to improve the health and well-being of the people of Hawaiʻi over the next decade. View by Sector Area View by Program Area View All Community Design & Access Education Health Care Worksite Asthma Cancer Diabetes Heart Disease & Stroke Physical Activity & Nutrition Tobacco All HHSP Objectives Long-Term Measures & Trackers The long-term measures are broad measures that help assess progress toward achieving the Healthy Hawaiʻi Vision 2030. Link Home Objectives About the HHSP Program Areas Contact Us All rights reserved 2022, Hawaiʻi State Department of Health / Ka ʻOihana Olakino Thank you for your visit! Your message has been forwarded to our team and we will respond to you shortly.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://hhsp.hawaii.gov/assets/pdf/Coordinated HHSP_FINAL_WEB.pdf) ---
Healthy Hawai‘i  
Strategic Plan 2030  
Acknowledgement of Partners
Thank you to the many partners and community 
stakeholders across the state of Hawai‘i who 
devoted their time and effort to the creation of 
the Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030. Please 
reference the “Partners” section for additional 
information about the diverse and hardworking 
individuals and organizations involved.
2Mōhala i ka wai ka maka o ka pua
Unfolded by the water are the faces of flowers.
Flowers thrive where there is water, as thriving people  
are found where living conditions are good.
‘ŌLELO NO‘EAU # 21783The HHSP can also be accessed, downloaded, and interacted with at the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.govAloha kākou,
The Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030 (HHSP) provides a roadmap for 
preventing and reducing the burden of chronic disease in our state. The 
HHSP is both timely and vital due to the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic on our country, state, and the people of Hawai‘i. The HHSP provides a 
comprehensive pathway forward to ensure that all residents of Hawai‘i can live 
healthier lives without complications from chronic disease. The disproportionate 
impact of COVID-19 on some of our communities in Hawai‘i amplifies the 
urgency for systemic approaches to reduce new cases of chronic disease and to 
normalize managing existing conditions.
The HHSP is a guide to enable coordination across common risk factors, 
interventions, and strategies. A large and diverse group of stakeholders 
contributed their expertise covering asthma, cancer, diabetes, heart disease and 
stroke, physical activity and nutrition, and tobacco programs. The HHSP was 
developed during historic times, while stakeholders adjusted organizationally 
and personally to teleworking and COVID-19 safety measures. The contributors 
are from communities across the state, from public, private, non-profit, and 
volunteer organizations, and through the pandemic they remained engaged in 
planning for the future. 
The pandemic revealed areas of susceptibility in our current health system 
infrastructure and achieving health equity must continue to be part of our 
recovery and ongoing endeavors. What would a future look like where the 
healthy choice is the easy choice for all people in Hawai‘i? The plan identifies 
priority objectives in four sector areas—Community Design and Access, 
Education, Health Care, and Worksite. Working on health priorities in these 
sector areas will create sustainable changes where people live, learn, work, 
and play, so healthy options become the default. This is a living document, and 
I welcome our partners—present and future—to work together to achieve the 
“Healthy Hawai‘i Vision 2030.”
Sincerely,
Elizabeth A. Char, M.D. 
Director, 
Hawai‘i State Department of Health
Healthy People, 
Healthy Communities, 
Healthy Hawai‘i
45 Message from the Director ......................................................................................... 3
 Introduction  ................................................................................................................... 6
 Vision, Mission, and Goals  .......................................................................................... 7
 Healthy Hawai‘i Vision 2030  ....................................................................................... 8
 About the Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030 ...................................................... 9
  Purpose of Plan  ...................................................................................................... 9
  Plan Framework ..................................................................................................... 9
   Social Ecological Model  ............................................................................... 10
   Policy, Systems and Environmental Change  .............................................. 10
   Cross-Cutting Themes .................................................................................. 11
   Sector Areas .................................................................................................. 12
   Program Areas ............................................................................................... 13
 Objectives and Strategies  ......................................................................................... 14
  Community Design and Access Sector Objectives ......................................... 15
  Education Sector Objectives  .............................................................................. 22
  Health Care Sector Objectives  .......................................................................... 26
  Worksite Sector Objectives  ................................................................................ 32
 Background  ................................................................................................................. 35
  Priority Populations  ............................................................................................. 36
  Achieving Health Equity ...................................................................................... 37
  Asthma .................................................................................................................. 38
  Cancer  .................................................................................................................. 40
  Diabetes  ................................................................................................................ 42
  Heart Disease and Stroke .................................................................................. 44
  Physical Activity and Nutrition  .......................................................................... 46
  Tobacco  ................................................................................................................. 50
 How the Plan was Developed  ................................................................................... 52
 Implementation ........................................................................................................... 53
 Long-term Measures  .................................................................................................. 53
 Partners  ........................................................................................................................ 58
 List of Acronyms  ......................................................................................................... 60
 References  .................................................................................................................. 61Table of ContentsChronic conditions:  high blood pressure, 
high cholesterol, a heart attack, 
coronary heart disease, a stroke, 
asthma, cancer, COPD, kidney disease, 
diabetes, or obesity64%
OF ADULTS IN 
HAWAI‘I HAVE 
ONE OR MORE 
CHRONIC 
CONDITIONSAnnual Costs of Chronic 
Disease in Hawai‘i
$9 BILLION
DIRECT MEDICAL COSTS
$3.2 BILLION 
COSTS DUE TO LOST
EMPLOYEE PRODUCTIVITY
AVERAGE PER YEAR 2016–2030
6INTRODUCTION
The COVID-19 pandemic has brought 
to the forefront the importance of 
chronic disease prevention and 
management , and has showcased 
how inequities impact not only  
the health of individuals, but of  
our communities . The COVID-19 pandemic underscores the need 
for investing in chronic disease prevention, and 
innovative policy, systems, and environmental change 
that will impact health and health equity in Hawai‘i. 
People of any age with chronic diseases, underlying 
medical conditions, and those who smoke are at 
increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19. 
A study in the Journal of the American Heart 
Association , published in 2021, estimated almost 
two-thirds of COVID-19 hospitalizations in the U.S. to 
be attributed to obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and 
heart failure.
In 2019, 64% of adults in Hawai‘i had one or more 
chronic conditions.1 The annual costs of chronic 
diseases in Hawai‘i are projected to be $9 billion 
in direct medical costs and an additional $3.2 
billion in indirect costs due to lost employee 
productivity (average per year 2016-2030).2 If the 
current trend continues, by 2030 the projected cost 
per Hawai‘i resident would be $8,300 per year.2 Through better prevention and treatment of chronic 
diseases, these projected rates can be significantly 
reduced.2 Additionally, minimizing preventable 
hospitalizations would improve health equity, reduce 
health care costs, and prevent overwhelming the 
state’s health care system during crises such as the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
The HHSP represents a coordinated effort between 
public, private, and community-based organizations, 
subject matter experts, public health advocates, 
health care professionals, educators, policy makers, 
and community representatives throughout the state. 
These partners worked together to develop 
objectives and strategies that utilize data, best 
practices, and evidence-based science. The resulting 
HHSP represents a common vision and guide for 
preventing and managing chronic disease, and 
ensuring that the people of Hawai‘i, especially the 
most at-risk populations, can lead healthy lives. 7VISION
Healthy People, Healthy  
Communities, Healthy Hawai‘i
MISSION
Shape environments, policies, and systems  
to support wellness and improve the quality  
and years of life for Hawai‘i’s people 
GOALS
» Improve health and wellness.
» Decrease premature death and disability  
 from chronic disease.
» Increase quality of life years among  
 Hawai‘i residents.      
» Reduce health disparities.8HEALTHY HAWAI‘I VISION 2030
The Healthy Hawai‘i Vision 2030 represents a future where every person in Hawai‘i has the 
opportunity to attain their full health potential. The framework of the HHSP recognizes that 
conditions in the places where people live, learn, work, and play are major contributing factors 
for health risks and outcomes.
These conditions are known as social determinants of health. The HHSP addresses the social 
determinants of health and achieving health equity through its focus on policy, systems, and 
environmental change in the four sector areas (Community Design and Access, Education, 
Health Care, and Worksite). The objectives assume there will be collective effort by partners to 
change policies, build health sustaining environments, and create meaningful connectedness 
across systems.9Plan Framework
The HHSP incorporates principles of the Social Ecological Model and is organized into four sector 
areas: Community Design and Access, Education, Health Care, and Worksite. The plan prioritizes goals, 
objectives, and strategies that lead to policy, systems, and environmental change. Objectives were 
developed using current data, best practices, and evidence-based science, and reflect one or more 
cross-cutting themes. Stakeholders utilized this common framework to develop objectives covering the 
program areas of asthma, cancer, diabetes, heart disease and stroke, physical activity and nutrition, 
and tobacco. ABOUT THE HEALTHY HAWAI‘I  
STRATEGIC PLAN 2030 (HHSP)
Purpose of the Plan
The HHSP provides a comprehensive approach to realize a common vision of a healthy future for the 
people of Hawai‘i. The HHSP promotes the following: 
• Innovative collaborations and non-traditional partnerships to improve health equity and  
 to reach remote, vulnerable, and underserved populations; 
• Resource sharing to minimize redundancies and safeguard sustainability; 
• Use of evidence-based strategies to ensure efforts are driven by data, research, and evaluation; and
• Participation and leadership to encourage individuals and organizations to identify their  
 areas of strength, roles and responsibilities, and possible contributions to improve the health of  
 Hawai‘i’s people.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Changes that are made to the 
physical/built environment.
Physical (structural changes 
or programs or service), 
social (a positive change 
in attitudes or behavior 
about policies that promote 
health) and economic 
factors (presence of 
financial disincentives or 
incentives to encourage a 
desired behavior).SYSTEMS
Changes made to rules 
within an organization.
Systems change and policy 
change often work hand-
in-hand. Often systems 
change focuses on changing 
infrastructure within a 
school, park, worksite, or 
health setting. POLICY
Policies at the legislative or 
organizational level.
Institutionalizing new rules 
or procedures as well as 
passing laws, ordinances, or 
resolutions are examples of 
policy changes.Social Ecological Model
IndividualInterpersonalOrganizationalCommunitySocietySocietyFederal, state, and local  
policy, systems, and  
environmental levels
CommunityNeighborhoods, cities,  
and counties
OrganizationalSchools, health care systems, 
businesses, government 
and community-based 
organizations
InterpersonalRelationships including 
those with family, friends, 
co-workers, support groups, 
social and cultural networks
IndividualIndividual attitudes, beliefs, 
knowledge, and behaviorsLARGEST  
IMPACT
SMALLEST  
IMPACT
10 »  SOCIAL ECOLOGICAL MODEL
To align with national priorities and direction, the HHSP relies on the Social Ecological Model. This model 
recognizes the interwoven relationship that exists between the individual and their environment. While 
individuals are responsible for maintaining a healthy lifestyle, behavior can be largely determined by 
the environment in which they live through social norms, attitudes, and public policies. Effective chronic 
disease prevention programs should address multiple levels of the model with attention on policy, 
systems, and environmental change. 
 »  POLICY, SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE
Integral to the framework and design of the HHSP is the focus on policy, systems, and environmental change.  
The plan’s long-term goals, objectives, and strategies were developed to align with national guidelines and 
recommendations and to reflect or lead to policy, systems, or environmental change.11»  CROSS-CUTTING THEMES
After review of evidence-based practices for chronic disease prevention, program staff and partners 
identified six cross-cutting themes to recur frequently throughout the plan.
Objectives in the HHSP were developed to reflect one or more of these cross-cutting themes:
 
Epidemiology, 
Surveillance, and 
EvaluationEpidemiology, surveillance, and evaluation should be used to 
understand the effectiveness and progress in achieving a plan’s goals 
and objectives. Data should be utilized to monitor progress, address 
gaps in health improvements, and prioritize next steps.
Quality of LifeQuality of life can encompass many areas of life, such as psychological 
well-being, social life, support system, health status and function, and 
functional or career well-being.
Community Clinical  
LinkagesCommunity clinical links help ensure that people with or at high risk of 
chronic diseases have access to the resources they need to prevent 
or manage these diseases. Improved links between the community 
and clinical setting offer community delivery of proven programs that 
clinicians can refer patients to.
Health EquityHealth disparities exist when there is a major difference in a health 
outcome between population groups. Chronic disease plans should 
recognize the importance of addressing health equity and prioritize 
population groups more likely to experience poor health outcomes.
Public Education and 
CommunicationsPublic education and communications can be used as strategic tools 
to influence people, places, and environmental conditions. Public 
education and communications can be prioritized to advance the 
goals and objectives of each chronic disease plan.
CoordinationA coordinated approach and common vision are essential to 
achieving the goals and objectives of this framework. Cross-coalition 
collaboration, greater information sharing, and the leveraging of 
resources will provide a more effective approach to implementing 
the policy, systems, and environmental change necessary to support 
healthy lifestyles and reduce premature death due to chronic disease.SECTOR AREAS 
Places (both physical & virtual) where policy,  
systems, and environmental change can be established to 
support the formation and maintenance of healthy behaviors, 
achieving health equity, and maximizing chronic disease 
prevention, management, and treatment.COMMUNITY DESIGN & ACCESS 
Public spaces (parks, community  
centers, and places of worship),  
physical infrastructure  
(sidewalks and bike lanes),  
and retail locations
WORKSITE
Public and private work 
environmentsEDUCATION
Public and private childcare 
and aftercare facilities,  
pre-kindergarten through 
12th grade schools,  
and higher educationHEALTH CARE
Public and private 
health care 
delivery sites
12 »  SECTOR AREAS
The HHSP also utilizes a framework of four sectors: Community Design and Access, Education, Health 
Care, and Worksite. This approach acknowledges the complexity of disease origins and promotes 
strategies that occur in multiple settings, e.g., where people live, learn, work, and play. Policy, systems, 
and environmental change in each of these settings will allow healthy options to become the easiest 
choice for Hawai‘i residents.13Additionally, the HHSP supports and reinforces the following comprehensive, chronic disease 
prevention and management strategic plans for the state:
• Hawai‘i Asthma Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Diabetes Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Heart Disease and Stroke Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 2030 »  PROGRAM AREAS
The rapidly increasing prevalence of chronic disease conditions and their associated risk factors in 
Hawai‘i makes the coordination of chronic disease prevention and management efforts essential. 
Coordinated practice improves collaboration between stakeholders, reduces duplication, and leverages 
resources to effectively address common risk factors through evidence-based policy, systems, and 
environmental change. The HHSP was created to complement and align activities throughout the 
following chronic disease prevention and management areas:
HHSP icon with program area icons
ASTHMA
TOBACCO
CANCER
DIABETES
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION14Objectives and  
Strategies
The HHSP objectives strive to create sustainable change 
that will transform our communities, schools, health care, 
and worksites to support the health of the people of Hawai‘i. 
Stakeholders developed the HHSP objectives to shape 
policy, systems and environmental change in the four sector 
areas: Community Design and Access; Education; Health 
Care; and Worksite. 
The objectives are showcased by sector area and include 
key strategies, baseline, and target measures. The HHSP is 
meant to be a living document that is reviewed and updated 
throughout the plan’s timeframe. Implementation of the plan 
will be a collective effort by individuals and organizations 
across the state.
 Objectives with this icon are being worked on by  
 multiple program areas.
* Additional background information, including definitions of some terminology used in the 
objectives and strategies, can be found on the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.gov15Community Design and Access  
Sector Objectives  
The Community Design and Access Sector includes places in the 
community where people live and play, such as public spaces (parks, 
community centers, and places of worship), physical infrastructure 
(sidewalks and bike lanes), and retail locations.
GOAL ››  All of Hawai‘i’s people will live in communities that have access 
to tobacco- and nicotine-free settings, healthy food choices, physical activity 
opportunities, evidence-based chronic disease self-management programs, and 
minimal exposure to unhealthy options through policy, programs, communications, 
and environmental supports.
ASTHMA-01 OBJECTIVE
Develop and deliver at least one promotional activity to increase awareness of asthma education 
resources for non-clinical professionals.
STRATEGIES 
• Identify stakeholders to establish a communications workgroup
• Convene communications workgroup regularly to develop messages tailored for targeted audience (e.g., 
coaches and/or caregivers)
• Identify media outlets that will reach targeted audience
• Disseminate messages through promotional activities (e.g., social media messages, posters, brochures, or 
other printed materials) and evaluate messagesBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1 ASTHMA-02 OBJECTIVE
Establish and sustain a funded, statewide Asthma Control Program Coordinator position to address the 
burden of asthma in the State of Hawai‘i.
STRATEGIES
• Provide written support and/or meet with the Director of Health to document the need of a State Asthma 
Control Program
• Provide written support/testimony to legislature to fund the Asthma Control Program Coordinator positionCOMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVES16CANCER-01
CANCER-02
CANCER-03OBJECTIVE
Develop at least one multi-island, small media campaign to promote Hepatitis B virus and Human 
Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccinations to prevent cancer.
STRATEGIES
• Identify stakeholders such as DOH Hepatitis Program and Hawai‘i Comprehensive Cancer Coalition’s 
(HCCC) Vaccine-Preventable Cancer Workgroup to establish a communications workgroup to develop a small 
media campaign
• Identify and secure resources for the campaign
• Evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign
OBJECTIVE
Develop at least one multi-island, small media campaign to increase awareness about each of the 
following topics: cancer as a chronic disease; the importance of family history for cancer; clinical trials; 
palliative care and hospice; prostate cancer; and cancer survivorship and issues faced by  
cancer survivors.
STRATEGIES
• Collaborate with cancer partners like the University of Hawai‘i Cancer Center and Kokua Mau, the Hawai‘i 
Genomics Program, and the HCCC Quality of Life Action Team to establish a communications workgroup to 
develop a small media campaign
• Identify and secure resources to develop the campaign
• Evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign
OBJECTIVE
Develop at least one cancer survivorship and caregiver resource guide that will include  
follow-up care, lifestyle, psychosocial, and financial information.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a working group to develop the cancer survivorship resource guide in partnership with the HCCC 
Quality of Life Action Team
• Evaluate the validity and value of the cancer survivors and caregivers’ resource guide
• Identify and secure resources to develop and update the guideBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2 
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  6
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  117
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVESDIABETES-01
DIABETES-02OBJECTIVE
Establish at least one fully recognized National Diabetes Prevention Program site in the State of Hawai‘i 
that provides online or distance learning.
STRATEGIES
• Support new organization(s) with the capacity to deliver the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) virtually or 
via telehealth by facilitating and maintaining access to necessary technology
• Provide technical assistance to organizations in obtaining distance and hybrid National Diabetes Prevention 
Program (NDPP) CDC recognition
• Connect referring organizations to distance learning DPP sites
OBJECTIVE
Establish at least three new American Diabetes Association recognized or Association of Diabetes Care 
and Education Specialists accredited Diabetes Self-Management Education and Support sites.
STRATEGIES
• Support new organizations seeking recognition or accreditation by covering the application fees on a once-in-
a-lifetime basis and providing technical assistance
• Collaborate with American Diabetes Association, Association of Diabetes Care and Education Specialists, and 
local Diabetes Self-Management Education and Support (DSMES) sites to provide training and mentoring to 
new organizationsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
BASELINE:  19  TARGET:  22CANCER-04 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 20%, the proportion of adults who are diagnosed with cancer and participated in a cancer-
related clinical trial.
STRATEGIES
• Address barriers to clinical trial participation and increase promotion of counter messages through outlets 
such as print, broadcast, and web-based media
• Integrate clinical trials into the training curriculum of academic institutions
• Identify and implement strategies to improve efficiency and resources related to clinical trials coordination for 
physicians
• Support access to clinical trials for neighbor island residents diagnosed with cancerBASELINE:  4.80%  TARGET:  5.80%COMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVES18PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-01
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-02
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-03OBJECTIVE
Increase by 50%, the number of food outlets that participate in a statewide healthy food 
incentive program(s).
STRATEGIES
• Secure long-term funding for Hawai‘i’s Double Up Food Bucks program, which matches Supplemental Nutrition 
Assistance Program (SNAP) food stamp dollars spent on Hawai‘i-grown produce
• Implement a statewide Produce Prescription Program, which enables participants to redeem “prescriptions” for 
produce at participating markets and grocery stores
OBJECTIVE
Enact at least two statewide policies to increase access to healthy food and/or decrease access to 
unhealthy food/beverages.
STRATEGIES
• Enact a fee on sugar-sweetened beverages, where revenue is allocated to obesity prevention initiatives
• Establish long-term, state funding for a Double Up Food Bucks SNAP incentive program
OBJECTIVE
Establish and sustain a funded Food Access Coordinator in each county to facilitate an active coalition.
STRATEGIES
• Food access coalitions will create and implement county-level action plans aimed at increasing access to, and 
consumption of, healthy food
• Secure county funding to support the activities of the coordinator and food access coalitionBASELINE:  62  TARGET:  93
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  4HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-01 OBJECTIVE
Develop and deliver at least two promotional activities to increase awareness of the preventability of 
heart disease and stroke.
STRATEGIES
• Identify stakeholders to establish a communications workgroup
• Convene communications workgroup regularly to develop messages tailored for targeted audience
• Identify media outlets that will reach targeted audience
• Disseminate messages through promotional activities (e.g., social media messages, posters, brochures, or 
other printed materials) and evaluate messagesBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  219
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVESPHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-05
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-06OBJECTIVE
Develop guidelines to promote healthy food donations and purchase of healthy food to be adopted by 
100% of Hawai‘i food banks.
STRATEGIES
• Convene a working group with representation from Hawai‘i’s foodbank network, to develop guidelines for 
healthy food donations
OBJECTIVE
Increase by 50 miles, the total miles of low-stress pedestrian infrastructure including, but not limited to, 
sidewalks and trails.
STRATEGIES
• Incorporate the specifications for “desirable” level of service described in the Hawai‘i Department of 
Transportation’s Pedestrian Toolbox into the development of low-stress pedestrian infrastructure
• Increase Safe Routes to Schools and Safe Routes to Parks programs and projects
• Develop policies to encourage shade tree planting, to increase canopy cover, on high volume pedestrian 
corridors and trails
• Increase share of state and county transportation budgets dedicated to pedestrian infrastructure
• Implement Vision Zero and Complete Streets policies to increase safety and comfort of pedestrian experienceBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  50PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-04 OBJECTIVE
Establish and sustain a funded, statewide Breastfeeding Coordinator to facilitate efforts supportive of 
breastfeeding exclusivity and duration.
STRATEGIES
• Assess statewide resources and capacity to fund and establish state-level breastfeeding coordinator position
• Develop scope and position description to include knowledge of indigenous cultures and breastfeeding 
support needs
• Identify gaps and strategically integrate the breastfeeding coordinator position in a way that bridges 
these gapsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  120PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-08 OBJECTIVE
The state and each county will identify and adopt mode-share goals and measurements that prioritize 
walking and wheelchairs, bicycling, and transit use.
STRATEGIES
• Develop context-appropriate county-level Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plans to establish 
mode baselines
• Develop more inclusive and comprehensive metrics for measuring active transportation beyond work and 
school commutes
• Support development of community Safe Routes to School (SRTS) plans, funding of SRTS infrastructure, free 
transit for minors, etcBASELINE TARGET
State 0 1
County 0 4
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-09 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 10%, the proportion of existing urbanized land zoned to support walkable communities.
STRATEGIES
• Promote Equitable Transit Oriented Development (ETOD), town centers, mixed-use development, and upzoning 
for new development and zoning updates
• Adopt parking policy reforms to reduce parking oversupply, unbundle residential parking, reduce or eliminate 
parking minimums, and/or shift costs
• Change Level-of-Service to Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) in environmental review of new developmentBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 10%PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-07 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 100 miles, the total miles of low-stress bicycle infrastructure including, but not limited to, 
protected bike lanes and off-street paths.
STRATEGIES
• Increase Safe Routes to Schools and Safe Routes to Parks projects
• Develop policies to encourage shade tree planting, to increase canopy cover, on high volume bicycle corridors 
and trails
• Increase share of state and county transportation budgets dedicated to bicycle facilities
• Implement Vision Zero and Complete Streets policies and projects to increase safety and comfort of bicyclist 
experienceBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  10021
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVESTOBACCO-01 OBJECTIVE
Enact at least five more county or state policies to decrease access to all tobacco products, including 
electronic smoking devices or other novel, emerging tobacco products.
STRATEGIES
• Establish regulatory parity for cigarettes, electronic smoking devices (ESDs), and emerging products, etc (e.g. 
impose taxes, licensing/permitting/restricting online sales, etc)
• Prohibit the sale of all flavored tobacco products including mentholBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5
TOBACCO-03TOBACCO-02
OBJECTIVE
Establish at least two more county or state policies that eliminate exposure to secondhand smoke.
STRATEGIES
• Enact a smoke-free multi-unit housing ordinance in all four major counties
• Establish policies that increase resources for smoke-free policy enforcement (at parks, beaches, public housing, etc)OBJECTIVE
Establish at least two more statewide policies that increase access to cessation services.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a MedQUEST policy that requires health plans to offer expanded evidence-based cessation service options
• Establish a policy to formally coordinate services between the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline (HTQL), community 
cessation providers, and a private or public insurance provider to promote access to services to consumers
• Establish a policy that requires insurance companies to expand reimbursement for youth cessation
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  222Education  
Sector Objectives  
The Education Sector includes places such as public and  
private childcare and aftercare facilities, pre-kindergarten through  
12th grade schools, and higher education.
GOAL ››  All of Hawai‘i’s educational settings will promote tobacco- 
and nicotine-free lifestyles, healthy eating, daily physical activity, and health 
management through programs, policies, environmental supports, and professional 
development opportunities.
ASTHMA-03 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 10%, the number of sites implementing CDC-recommended school- and/or community-based 
Asthma Self-Management Education programs.
STRATEGIES 
• Expand the number of Asthma Self-Management Education (ASME) programs by facilitating partnerships with 
school- and community-based organizations
• Promote ASME programs with the new and existing partnersBASELINE:  7  TARGET:  8
BASELINE:  13  TARGET:  14 ASTHMA-04 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 10%, the number of facilitators delivering CDC-recommended school- and/or community-
based Asthma Self-Management Education.
STRATEGIES
• Expand the number of ASME programs by connecting potential volunteers
• Promote volunteer opportunities with new and existing partners23
EDUCATION SECTOR OBJECTIVESCANCER-05 OBJECTIVE
Increase by five, the number of schools that implement 1 to 2 of the recommended CDC Sun Protection 
Guidelines.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct an assessment of the readiness of one or more schools to implement one or more of the 
recommended CDC Sun Protection Guidelines
• Partner with cancer partners such as the Hawai‘i Skin Cancer Coalition to promote the recommended  
CDC Sun Protection GuidelinesBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 5
CANCER-06 OBJECTIVE
100% of eligible school-based clinics become Vaccines for Children providers.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct an assessment of eligible schools to determine their ability to become Vaccines for Children  
(VFC) providers
• Partner with the HCCC’s Vaccine Preventable Cancers Workgroup to promote the importance of making 
vaccines (e.g., HPV) available BASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  100%
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-02 OBJECTIVE
Adopt a wellness policy designed to provide access to blood pressure cuffs and blood pressure  
education at public college campuses.
STRATEGIES
• Leverage partnerships within the University of Hawai‘i system to identify campus wellness/health  
services coordinator
• Explore potential partnerships and link available resources at American Heart AssociationBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-10 OBJECTIVE
Adopt at least one policy to require annual courses in Health Education and Physical Education from 
grades K-8, in the Department of Education, that are aligned with national recommendations for 
instructional time and teacher licensing.
STRATEGIES
• Support a Board of Education policy change to require annual courses in Health Education in grades K-8 in 
Department of Education (DOE) public non-charter schools
• Support a Board of Education policy change to require annual courses in Physical Education in grades K-8 in 
DOE public non-charter schoolsBASELINE TARGET
Health Education courses 0 1
Physical Education courses 0 124PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-12
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-13OBJECTIVE
50% of public non-charter schools participating in the Safety and Wellness Survey will meet at  
least 90% of the wellness guidelines.
STRATEGIES
• Create a toolkit to share with all participating public schools that highlights resources for the four lowest 
scoring wellness guidelines
• Create a social media campaign to educate families and community stakeholders on the DOE safety and 
wellness guidelines and opportunities to support wellness in schools
• Conduct a study to evaluate qualities/characteristics/infrastructure/resources that contribute to the schools 
with the lowest Safety and Wellness Survey (SAWS) score and the highest SAWS score
OBJECTIVE
Establish and sustain a funded statewide Food Systems Education Coordinator position to  
support ‘āina-based education, which promotes healthy eating in preschool through grade 12 (P-12)  
education settings.
STRATEGIES
• Assess statewide resources and capacity to fund and establish a statewide Food Systems Education 
Coordinator position
• Develop scope and position description to include knowledge of ‘āina-based education
• Identify gaps and strategically integrate the Food Systems Education Coordinator position in a way that 
bridges these gapsBASELINE:  30%  TARGET:  50%
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-11 OBJECTIVE
Develop a system to monitor and support implementation of the Early Childhood Care and Education 
Wellness Guidelines.
STRATEGIES
• Convene both public and private early learning community stakeholders to determine barriers to 
implementation of Hawai‘i’s Early Childhood Care and Education (ECE) Wellness Guidelines
• Collaborate with ECE stakeholders to create a physical activity and nutrition ECE setting focused training 
curricula developed from the Hawai‘i ECE Wellness Guidelines
• Partner with leaders in the early learning community to identify and implement incentives to support provider 
implementation of the ECE Wellness GuidelinesBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  125
EDUCATION SECTOR OBJECTIVESTOBACCO-05 OBJECTIVE
Develop and adopt at least one “alternative to suspension” model policy for youth vaping or tobacco 
offenses in Department of Education schools.
STRATEGIES
• Develop and adopt best practice enforcement responses/guidelines for youth vaping/tobacco offenses to guide 
law enforcement or Department of Education (DOE) school officials
• Pilot test a model alternative to suspension policy at a public or private school in Hawai‘i and use results to inform 
expansion into other schoolsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
TOBACCO-07 OBJECTIVE
Conduct at least ten more educational campaigns for parents or youth influencers to provide information 
about tobacco/vaping prevention or cessation statewide.
STRATEGIES
• Develop culturally appropriate educational campaigns for use in school systems such as, the Hawaii Association of 
Independent Schools, Charter School Commission, and Hawaii State Department of Education
• Develop education campaigns that can be used in a variety of media types (radio, television, mall ads, social media, etc)BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  10TOBACCO-04 OBJECTIVE
All colleges and universities in the State of Hawai‘i will provide tobacco-free education and offer 
cessation services to their students, staff and faculty.
STRATEGIES
• Provide tobacco prevention and cessation information at incoming student orientation sessions
• Support student health groups to conduct peer-led tobacco cessation and prevention promotion throughout all 
campuses
• Create linkages between community tobacco treatment specialists, the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline and universities to 
tailor promotions to students and increase access to cessation services for young adultsBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  All colleges  
and universities  
in Hawai‘i
TOBACCO-06 OBJECTIVE
All colleges and universities in the State of Hawai‘i will have a 100% smoke-free or tobacco-free  
campus policy.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct outreach to universities and colleges without tobacco-free policies to provide education and information 
about the benefits of implementing a tobacco-free campus
• Provide technical support to individual private colleges and universities to encourage adoption of tobacco-free 
campus policiesBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  All colleges  
and universities  
in Hawai‘i26Health Care  
Sector Objectives  
The Health Care Sector includes places such as public and private 
health care delivery sites.
GOAL ››  All of Hawai‘i’s health care systems will promote health equity 
and maximize utilization of prevention, early detection, and evidence-based chronic 
disease self-management services by improving coverage, health information 
technology, programs, practices, and guidelines.
MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS OBJECTIVE
By 2025, identify six Health Information Technology priorities to enhance population health.
STRATEGIES
• Identify key Health Information Technology (HIT) stakeholders to establish a HIT workgroup
• Convene HIT workgroup regularly to identify the HIT priorities to enhance population healthASTHMA-06  •  DIABETES-03  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-06BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  6
MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS OBJECTIVE
Meet 50% of identified Health Information Technology priority goals.
STRATEGIES
• Implement priorities identified by the HIT workgroup (e.g., implement bidirectional referral systems between 
health care organizations and self-management education programs or create a GIS map of chronic disease 
cases to inform targeted health communication and resource utilization)ASTHMA-07  •  DIABETES-04  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-07BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  50%27
HEALTH CARE SECTOR OBJECTIVESASTHMA-05 OBJECTIVE
Establish coverage of Asthma Self-Management Education programs by Medicaid.
STRATEGIES 
• Identify existing literature/guidance/cost benefit analysis on ASME coverage
• Collaborate with Medicaid and provide guidance on ASME coverage and eligibilityBASELINE:  1  TARGET:  5OBJECTIVE
By 2025, identify five measurable outcomes indicative of team-based care and 
monitor over time.
STRATEGIES
• Identify key stakeholders to establish a team-based care workgroup
• Convene team-based care workgroup regularly to identify measurable outcomes indicative of  
team-based care
• Report identified outcomes at least annuallyASTHMA-08  •  DIABETES-05  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-03BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5 MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS
OBJECTIVE
Improve identified measurable team-based care outcomes by 5%.
STRATEGIES
• Implement priorities identified by the team-based care workgroup (e.g., increase use of pharmacists in 
medication management to increase physical patient panels, increase use of non-physician telehealth for 
Asthma Self-Management (ASME), or increase use of Community Health Workers (CHW) in patient care 
coordination)ASTHMA-09  •  DIABETES-06  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-04BASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 5% MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS28CANCER-09 OBJECTIVE
Increase the proportion of adults receiving lung, breast, cervical, and colorectal cancer  
screenings.
STRATEGIES
• Partner with the Hawai‘i Primary Care Association to increase and implement evidence-based interventions 
(EBI) at FQHCs
• Identify resources and secure funding for implementation
• Evaluate the effectiveness of the implementation of the EBITARGET 
LUNG:  9.5%
BREAST:  97.4%
CERVICAL:  92.6%
COLORECTAL:  84.1%BASELINE 
LUNG:  8.5%
BREAST:  87.0%
CERVICAL:  82.7%
COLORECTAL:  75.1%CANCER-08 OBJECTIVE
Increase by ten, the number of new community pharmacies that implement activities to increase 
Hepatitis B vaccination.
STRATEGIES
• Identify pharmacies that serve communities at risk for Hepatitis B (e.g., Asian and Pacific Islander populations)
• Develop a workplan for increasing patient recruitment and reimbursement
• Identify and secure resources to implement the workplanBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  10CANCER-07 OBJECTIVE
Increase by ten, the number of health care systems that use Health Information Technology to address 
Hepatitis B vaccination.
STRATEGIES
• Identify key HIT stakeholders to establish a HIT workgroup
• Convene HIT workgroup regularly to identify the HIT priorities to enhance Hepatitis B vaccination rates
• Assess capacity of partner Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) to track and remind providers about 
Hepatitis B immunization rates
• Compile best practice models to increase immunization rates using HIT at FQHCs
• Identify and secure resources to implement HIT at partner FQHCsBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 1029
HEALTH CARE SECTOR OBJECTIVESCANCER-11 OBJECTIVE
Increase the proportion of cancer survivors who have received treatment summaries and cancer 
survivorship care plans.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct an assessment of Commission on Cancer accredited cancer programs in the state on their methods of 
providing treatment summaries and cancer survivorship care plans
• Develop a plan in partnership with the HCCC Quality of Life Action Team members to educate cancer survivors 
on the benefits of treatment summaries and cancer survivorship care plans
• Develop a training for health care providers on ways to increase utilization of treatment summaries and cancer 
survivorship care plansTARGET 
TREATMENT SUMMARIES:  49.5%
CANCER SURVIVORSHIP CARE PLANS:  33.1%BASELINE 
TREATMENT SUMMARIES:  43.8%
CANCER SURVIVORSHIP CARE PLANS:  32.1%CANCER-10 OBJECTIVE
Increase the proportion of adults who have an Advance Health Care Directive.
STRATEGIES
• Develop an educational and promotional program that emphasizes the importance of advance care planning 
and having an Advance Health Care Directive
• Provide education to health professionals about the benefits of advance care planning that includes sensitivity 
to culturally diverse patient needs
• Educate employers on the importance of advance care planning, especially Advance Health Care DirectiveBASELINE:  36.7%  TARGET:  41.1%
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-05 OBJECTIVE
Establish coverage for medication therapy management and/or self-measured blood pressure 
monitoring by Medicaid.
STRATEGIES
• Identify and review existing literature/guidance on Medication Therapy Management (MTM) and  
Self-Measured Blood Pressure Monitoring (SMBPM) reimbursement
• Collaborate with Medicaid and provide guidance on reimbursement for MTM and/or SMBPMBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  130PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-16 OBJECTIVE
Establish comprehensive coverage for lactation consultation services and lactation supplies by all  
health insurance companies in the State of Hawai‘i.
STRATEGIES
• Engage lactation consultants and other breastfeeding stakeholders to:
 -Develop reimbursement models for Medicaid and commercial payers
 -Pilot coverage processesBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  6BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  12 PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-15 OBJECTIVE
Implement a Hawai‘i-specific hospital recognition program to incentivize promotion of  
exclusive breastfeeding through adoption of best practices that 100% of maternity care hospitals  
will participate in.
STRATEGIES
• Develop a statewide maternity care hospital recognition program, which sets policies and standards to support 
exclusive breastfeeding
• Convene a Hawai‘i hospital recognition program workgroup to create, administer, and evaluate the programPHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-14 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 5%, the number of people enrolled in nutrition and physical activity programs that  
are offered by health system payers.
STRATEGIES
• Expand coverage for Diabetes Prevention Programs (DPPs), or evidence-based DPP-like programs (e.g., Pili 
‘Ohana Department of Native Hawaiian Health)
• Work with providers, health system payers, and worksites to increase awareness of and referrals to covered 
PAN programs
• Participate in Health Information Technology (HIT) workgroup to discuss potential referral options between 
health care organizations and self-management education programs related to physical activity and nutritionBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 5%31
HEALTH CARE SECTOR OBJECTIVESTOBACCO-09 OBJECTIVE
Integrate brief intervention education into at least five more health professional training programs as 
a graduation requirement, and into at least two health specialty organizations (e.g. American Academy 
of Pediatrics, American College of Surgeons, American Physical Therapy Association) as continuing 
education offerings.
STRATEGIES
• Identify relevant “health professional training programs”—such as pharmacy, nursing, medicine, dental hygiene, 
respiratory therapists, psychology, and other related allied health programs, where brief intervention education can 
be incorporated
• Coordinate brief intervention trainings with the behavioral health and substance use treatment communitiesBASELINE TARGET
Professional training programs Pending 5
Health specialty organizations Pending 2TOBACCO-08 OBJECTIVE
Implement at least five more health systems change policies or projects for tobacco cessation per the 
Clinical Practice Guidelines and Million Hearts Tobacco Cessation Change Package.
STRATEGIES
• Integrate assessment, referral, and treatment interventions for tobacco/nicotine use in routine care in health care 
systems using electronic health records
• Provide staff and clinician education about cessation services to increase referral to treatment after identifying 
patients with tobacco/nicotine addictionBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  532Worksite  
Sector Objectives  
The Worksite Sector includes places such as public and private  
work environments.
GOAL ››  All of Hawai‘i’s worksites will create a culture of wellness 
through supportive programs and policies that promote tobacco-and nicotine-
free workplaces; breastfeeding; healthy food and beverage choices; physical 
activity and active commuter opportunities; health screenings; and early 
detection, risk reduction, and self-management of chronic diseases.
OBJECTIVE
Implement a statewide, comprehensive worksite wellness recognition program that at least  
10 very small-, 15 small-, 10 medium-, and 5 large-employers will participate in.
STRATEGIES
• Identify stakeholders and convene an advisory group to develop a Hawai‘i-specific, evidence-based worksite 
wellness recognition program that includes the following areas:
  •  Asthma •  Heart Disease and Stroke
  •  Cancer •  Physical Activity and Nutrition
  •  Diabetes •  Tobacco 
• Pilot the recognition program with a group of diverse employers and modify the program based on their 
feedback.ASTHMA-11  •  CANCER-13  •  DIABETES-07  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-09
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-19  •  TOBACCO-12
BASELINE:  
very small = 0
small = 0medium = 0
large = 0TARGET:  
very small = 10
small = 15medium = 10
large = 5MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS33
WORKSITE SECTOR OBJECTIVESASTHMA-10 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least one statewide policy designed to increase access to evidence-based chronic disease 
prevention and management programs that address asthma at worksites.
STRATEGIES 
• In collaboration with Objective Asthma-11, identify stakeholders to establish an advisory group to  
develop a Hawai‘i-specific worksite wellness recognition program
• Convene workgroup regularly to draft a policyBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
CANCER-12 OBJECTIVE
Increase by five, the number of employer groups that adopt a policy that allows time off for cancer 
screenings.
STRATEGIES
• Assess the employer groups ability to establish a policy that allows time off for cancer screenings
• Partner with selected employer groups to develop a policy
• Implement the policy and evaluate the effectiveness of the policyBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 5
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-08 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least one statewide policy designed to increase access to evidence-based chronic disease 
prevention and management programs that address heart disease and stroke at worksites.
STRATEGIES
• In collaboration with Objective Heart Disease and Stroke-09, identify stakeholders to establish an advisory 
group to develop a Hawai‘i-specific worksite wellness recognition program
• Convene workgroup regularly to draft a policyBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-17 BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least two statewide policies designed to increase physical activity and/or healthy food 
options in government worksites.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a comprehensive worksite physical activity policy
• Establish a policy that requires nutrition standards for worksite vending machines and for meetings/events 
where food is served34TOBACCO-11 OBJECTIVE
At least fifteen more worksites in the State of Hawai‘i will have 100% tobacco-free policies.
STRATEGIES
• Develop and define criteria for 100% tobacco-free worksite campuses
• Develop tobacco-free campus policies for state and county departmentsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  15PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-18 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least one statewide policy that supports breastfeeding exclusivity and duration.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a statewide Paid Family Leave policy, which will support mothers’ ability to breastfeed by providing 
leave time for mothers to care for their newborns
• Encourage employers to adopt an Infant at Work policy, which allows employees the option of bringing their 
infants into the workplace and can support exclusive breastfeeding
• Encourage employers to adopt a Work from Home policy, which provides telecommuting options for 
breastfeeding mothersBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
TOBACCO-10 OBJECTIVE
At least five more large employers (including the State and Counties) will offer health plans that promote 
tobacco treatment coverage per U.S. Preventive Task Force recommendations.
STRATEGIES
• Engage unions to make changes to provide cessation coverage with no co-pay in insurance plans
• Facilitate employers’ capacity to offer programs or insurance plans that incentivize cessation or offers cessation 
services with no co-payBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawaii
Chronic Diseases: Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawaii
Asthma
16%Diabetes
12%Obesity
25%High Blood 
Cholesterol
32%High Blood 
Pressure
34%Cancer
9%Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawaii
Chronic Diseases: Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawaii
Asthma
16%Diabetes
12%Obesity
25%High Blood 
Cholesterol
32%High Blood 
Pressure
34%Cancer
9%Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawai‘i
Hawai‘i Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, 2017, 2018 Hawai‘i Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, 2015, 2017, 2018Risk Factors for Chronic Diseases
Adults Not Meeting the 
Physical Activity  
Recommendations 75%Adults Eating  
Less Than  
5 Fruits and  
Vegetables  
a Day80%Adults  
Smoking  
Cigarettes13%
35In Hawai‘i, chronic diseases are among the most 
prevalent, costly, and preventable of all health 
problems. The past two decades have seen 
unprecedented increases in chronic disease 
and obesity due to pronounced changes in the 
environment, behavior, and lifestyle. Sixty-four percent 
of adults are living with at least one chronic condition 
such as diabetes or heart disease.1 Chronic diseases 
account for the top three leading causes of death.3
Obesity also continues to rise at an epidemic rate. 
In just two decades, the percentage of adults with 
obesity in Hawai‘i more than doubled from just over 
10% in 1995 to 25% in 2018.4 Over half (59%) of adults 
exceed healthy Body Mass Index (BMI) standards and 
are either overweight or obese.4 Significant disparities 
in overweight and obesity rates are evident in many 
subpopulations, particularly across race and ethnicity. 
The current obesity epidemic is the culmination of 
drivers in the environment that discourage energy 
expenditure while encouraging overconsumption.5
Obesity and chronic diseases are also prevalent in 
Hawai‘i’s youth.6 Obesity and overweight rates in 
younger populations have risen with nearly a third 
(28%) of high school youth exceeding healthy BMI 
standards.7 Evidence shows that chronic diseases, 
including those more often observed in adulthood, are 
on the rise in young people, with notable disparities.2 
Youth in Hawai‘i also have some of the highest 
e-cigarette use rates in the nation.7 These findings highlight the pressing need for prevention policies and 
chronic disease management efforts that target youth.
Most chronic diseases can be prevented by eating 
well, being physically active, avoiding tobacco, and 
getting regular health screenings. Tobacco use is the 
single most preventable cause of death and disease, 
followed by physical inactivity and poor nutrition.8,9 
These three risk factors are major contributors to the 
development of chronic diseases such as asthma, 
diabetes, many types of cancer, and heart disease 
and stroke.10
The COVID-19 global pandemic highlights the 
necessity for a comprehensive approach that supports 
innovative changes in both the public health and 
health care delivery systems. Adopting such an 
approach would address the needs of all people, 
including priority populations, by promoting efficient 
coordination between public health and health care 
and adapting to rapidly changing circumstances that 
impact population health.
Partners across the state of Hawai‘i who developed 
the HHSP are committed to preventing chronic 
disease for all residents. Recent success in large-
scale public health interventions is the result of going 
beyond programming to focus on policy, systems, and 
environmental change approaches. The HHSP is a 
strategic plan that focuses on creating higher order 
environmental, policy and systems changes that make 
healthy behaviors the “default” choice.BACKGROUND36Priority Populations
Hawai‘i is one of the most diverse states in the 
nation. The state’s main population groups are 
Native Hawaiians, Japanese, Chinese, Filipinos 
and Caucasians. Hawai‘i has a larger percentage 
of Native Hawaiians, Other Pacific Islanders, and 
multiracial subgroups than the rest of the country. 
Non-Caucasian minorities, including large immigrant 
populations from Asian and Pacific Islander nations, 
comprise 74% of the population.11 Although Hawai‘i 
has consistently placed a high value on providing 
accessible, top quality health care for all, health 
disparities between population groups exist. 
Numerous social, economic, and environmental 
factors influence the health of individuals and 
populations. For example, people with a quality 
education, stable employment, safe homes 
and neighborhoods, and access to high-quality, 
preventive health services tend to be healthier 
throughout their lives and live longer. Conversely, 
people with behavioral health disorders, those 
identifying as a sexual and gender minority 
including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer 
and/or questioning (LGBTQ), or persons of low 
socioeconomic status, often face inequitable health 
outcomes. Where you live directly affects your 
health in a number of ways, from the accessibility of 
healthy food, to the availability of green space to be 
physically active, to access to primary health care.12 
In Hawai‘i, life expectancy ranges by zip code from 
73 years to 87 years, a 14 year difference.12 Inequity 
is also found across ethnic and non-English speaking 
communities. The COVID-19 pandemic and climate change are bearing out the disparate vulnerabilities 
across communities in Hawai‘i. The HHSP recognizes 
and prioritizes the importance of addressing health 
equity and priority population groups that are more 
likely to experience poor health outcomes.
People with access to quality 
education, stable employment, 
safe homes and neighborhoods, 
and preventive health services live 
healthier, longer lives.A “one size fits all” approach 
to expanding opportunities 
for improved health is like 
expecting everyone to be 
able to ride the same bike. 
Aiming for “Equity,” rather than 
“Equality,” provides a more 
tailored approach to addressing 
the unique needs of our most 
vulnerable populations.
Advancing Health EquitySocial determinants of 
health are conditions in 
the places where people 
live, learn, work, and play 
that affect a wide range 
of health and quality-of 
life-risks and outcomes.Social Determinants of HealthSocial Determinants of HealthSocial Determinants of Health
NEIGHBORHOOD 
AND BUILT 
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL AND 
COMMUNITY 
CONTEXT
EDUCATION  
ACCESS AND 
QUALITYHEALTH CARE  
AND QUALITY
ECONOMIC 
STABILITY
• Chronic Disease Burden
• Length of Life
• Quality of LifeHEALTH OUTCOMES
ADAPTED FROM THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTIONSocial Determinants of HealthSocial Determinants of Health
NEIGHBORHOOD 
AND BUILT 
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL AND 
COMMUNITY 
CONTEXT
EDUCATION  
ACCESS AND 
QUALITYHEALTH CARE  
AND QUALITY
ECONOMIC 
STABILITY
• Chronic Disease Burden
• Length of Life
• Quality of LifeHEALTH OUTCOMES
ADAPTED FROM THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION
37Achieving Health Equity
Research suggests social determinants of health may be the most important factors in health outcomes 
and health equity. 
To ensure that individuals and communities across the state achieve their full health potential, the 
HHSP addresses social determinants of health domains such as education; health care and quality; and 
neighborhood and built environments. 
The plan also provides insights on population characteristics, disease data and trends, and existing 
health inequities. Communities that are most vulnerable or more likely to experience disparities have 
been identified and prioritized.38ASTHMA
Asthma affects people of all ages and often starts 
during childhood. Since 1980, asthma prevalence 
has steadily climbed, making asthma the most 
common, chronic childhood disease both in the 
U.S. and Hawai‘i.13,14 Approximately 104,400 (9%) 
adults and 30,000 (10%) children in Hawai‘i currently 
have asthma.15 Among youth, more boys than girls 
have asthma, but this trend reverses in adulthood, 
when adult women are twice as likely as their male 
counterparts to report current asthma.
Over the past decade, Hawai‘i has successfully 
implemented initiatives that have set the stage for 
improvements in asthma control and prevention. 
For example, since 2014 there has been a steady 
increase throughout the state in the number of 
school-based health centers and Hawai‘i Keiki 
Program nurses. Both of these programs provide 
support and services to students who need 
assistance with chronic conditions such as asthma. 
And in 2019, Hawai‘i passed legislation authorizing 
a community paramedicine program that allows 
paramedics to provide treatment and disease 
management assistance in the homes of patients. 
This type of program will help reduce emergency 
room and urgent care visits related to poorly 
controlled asthma or asthma attacks.
Symptoms of an asthma attack include shortness 
of breath, wheezing, and chest tightness. Asthma 
attacks can be triggered by allergens (such as 
dust mites, pet dander, and mold), irritants (such 
as secondhand smoke and vog), and respiratory 
infections (such as the flu).In the primary care setting, asthma can be diagnosed 
using spirometry (a common test for measuring lung 
function) and managed with medication, usually 
daily inhaled corticosteroids, and tools such as 
Asthma Action Plans.16 However, when asthma is 
not effectively managed, patients often need to 
seek treatment in emergency departments: severe 
cases can result in hospitalization or even death. In 
2016, $12 million was spent in Hawai‘i on emergency 
department visits for adults and children with 
asthma.17 The average cost per patient for asthma 
hospitalizations was $18,000.17
Despite ongoing and targeted public health efforts 
to reduce the burden of asthma in Hawai‘i, asthma-
related health disparities persist. According to 
an analysis of 2018 BRFSS data, 15% of Native 
Hawaiian adults reported having current asthma, 
compared to the state average of 9%.15 People with 
lower socioeconomic status and those who live in 
rural regions of Hawai‘i are also signficantly more 
likely to have asthma and to have their condition 
under poor control.15,19 In 2018, half of adults with 
current asthma lived in households with an annual 
income of less than $15,000.15 The regions with the 
highest prevalence in the state in 2018 were Hilo on 
Hawai‘i Island (24%) and the Waianae-Nanakuli area 
of Oahu (23%), both higher than the state asthma 
prevalence average (16%).15Asthma is a chronic condition that intermittently inflames 
and narrows the airways in the lungs.  1 in 11 adults in Hawai‘i 
currently have asthmaAsthma 
Triggers
Dust Mi tescockr oaches
pet
danderrespira tory
 infections
moldvogSecondhand 
Smoke
Asthma 
Managementcockr oach
traps
flu shotMedicationAsthma  
Educa tor
Mattress
Covers
ASTHMA 
PRIORITY 
POPULATIONS
» Native Hawaiians
» Youth
$12MSPENT ON EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT 
VISITS FOR ASTHMA (2016)1 in 10 children in Hawai‘i 
currently have asthma
In Hawai‘i, asthma is more 
prevalent among boys 
than girls and adult women 
compared to men12%8%
9%11%Policy allowing students to self-administer  
medication at school established   2004 
School Health Aide curriculum developed by  
Kapiolani Community College   2014 
Smoke-free vehicle laws to protect youth from 
secondhand smoke passed in all four counties   2010–2018  
Insurance billing for community paramedicine and non-
hospital emergency department transports authorized  2019 Asthma Program 
Area Successes
39$18,000AVERAGE COST PER PATIENT FOR 
ASTHMA HOSPITALIZATIONS (2016)40CANCER
From 2012-2016, the average annual mortality 
rate for all cancers combined was 158 per 100,000 
males and 110 per 100,000 females.20 Lung cancer 
is the leading cause of death among both men and 
women.20 
In 2016, there were over 62,200 Hawai‘i residents 
living with cancer. 20 The annual incidence rate from 
2012-2016 for all cancers combined was 426 per 
100,000 in males and 400 per 100,000 in females.20 
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among 
women, and prostate cancer is the most common 
cancer among men. 20
Despite the ongoing burden of cancer in the state, 
Hawai‘i has successfully implemented programs to 
alleviate cancer’s impact. For example, an Adolescent 
Vaccination Peer-Education Project was implemented 
on Oahu and included a curriculum to raise 
awareness about adolescent vaccine-preventable 
diseases; the State’s Administrative Rules were 
changed to require Human Papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccinations for all students entering 7th grade; and 
an evidence-based program on cancer survivorship, 
Cancer: Thriving and Surviving, was developed and 
offered on the island of Maui. The risk factors that contribute to cancer affect 
certain population groups more than others. These 
factors include poverty, poor nutrition, lower 
education levels, limited access to health care, 
language barriers, toxic environmental exposures, 
risky health behaviors, geographic isolation, and 
genetics.21 In Hawai‘i, subgroups disproportionately 
affected by cancer include Native Hawaiians, 
Filipinos, Samoans, Other Pacific Islanders, and 
people with lower income or lower educational 
attainment.22 These subgroups are more likely to 
lack insurance, encounter long distances to health 
services, or experience culturally inappropriate 
health care.22 The HHSP and the Hawai‘i State Cancer 
Plan 2030 prioritizes engagement with the most 
at-risk populations to identify culturally appropriate 
strategies that will address health inequities and 
reduce cancer risks.Cancer is the second leading cause of death in Hawai‘i, 
and more than 2,300 die annually from the disease.3   
Hawai‘i has successfully 
implemented programs to 
improve the quality of life 
for cancer survivors.Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment Program  
established   2001
Mandated health care coverage for colorectal  
cancer screening   2010
Cancer: Thriving and Surviving Program adopted  
as part of survivorship care on Maui   2017
Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine curriculum  
developed for Oahu school   2018
Hepatitis B vaccination program developed in  
community pharmacies   2019
HPV vaccine required for all students entering 7th grade  2020
CANCER 
PRIORITY 
POPULATIONS
» Native Hawaiians
» Filipinos
» Other Pacific IslandersPercentageSite Specific Cancer Screening Rates
Hawai‘i Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, 2018020406080100
Colorectal Mammogram Pap Test Lung75TARGET 
/eight.lf/four.lfTARGET 
/nine.lf/seven.lf TARGET 
/nine.lf/three.lf
TARGET 
/one.lf/zero.lf8783
8
There are  over 62,000  
adult Cancer  
Survivors  in Hawai‘i  CANCER IS THE 
SECOND LEADING 
CAUSE OF DEATH 
(AFTER HEART DISEASE) IN HAWAI‘I
Cancer Risk 
Factorsalcohol
Human 
Papillomavirus 
(HPV)family
history
Obesit yAccess to  
careSmoking
toxic 
envir onment al 
exposure sCancer Program 
Area Successes
Hepatitis B
4142DIABETES
According to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, 80% of people with prediabetes and 
20% of people with diabetes are unaware of their 
conditions, suggesting that the true prevalence of 
prediabetes and diabetes is much higher.24
There have been great strides to increase awareness 
of prediabetes and diabetes in Hawai‘i through 
promotion of the National Diabetes Prevention 
Program (DPP) and Diabetes Self-Management 
Education and Support services (DSMES). The 
Diabetes Prevention and Control Program (DPCP) 
has increased screening, testing, and referral of 
people with prediabetes, increased access to lifestyle 
change programs, and increased coverage of DPP . 
The availability of DPPs has increased from 0 to 
17 programs since 2016, with DPP now available 
in all four counties. Additionally, the DPP has 
become a benefit covered by Medicare, and several 
health plans and employers in Hawai‘i now offer a 
DPP benefit.
Significant challenges in diabetes disease 
management still remain statewide. Health 
Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) data 
indicate that almost 35% of Federally Qualified Health Centers’ (FQHC) diabetic patients have 
uncontrolled diabetes.25 Similarly, 2016 Physician 
Quality Reporting System data show that 30% of 
diabetic patients show poorly managed A1c levels. 
The high rates of prediabetes, diabetes, and poorly 
managed conditions contributes significantly to the 
state’s health care expenditures. In 2012, Hawai‘i 
spent an estimated $1.1 billion in total direct medical 
expenses for undiagnosed and diagnosed diabetes, 
prediabetes and gestational diabetes.26 An additional 
$419 million was spent on indirect costs related to 
lost productivity due to diabetes.27
Diabetes affects certain race and ethnic groups in 
Hawai‘i more than others. Filipino, Native Hawaiian, 
and Other Pacific Islander populations have a 
prevalence of diabetes two to three times higher than 
Caucasians.28 Many risk factors (e.g., family history 
of diabetes, age 45 and older, ethnicity) contribute 
to the disproportionate burden of diabetes on 
certain subgroups.29 The HHSP provides a framework 
for addressing diabetes disparities and enhancing 
diabetes screening and awareness through policy, 
systems, and environmental change strategies.In the 2018 Hawai‘i Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance 
System (BRFSS), 14% of adults in the state reported that 
they were diagnosed with prediabetes and 12% reported 
that they were diagnosed with diabetes.23  Number of Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP)  
sites increased from 0 to 17  2016–2020
DPP covered by Medicare  2018  
Hawai‘i Department of Health offers HI DPP ,  
an online DPP platform, to recognized DPP providers 
across the state  2020
DIABETES 
PRIORITY 
POPULATIONS
» Filipinos
» Native Hawaiians
» Other Pacific Islanders
1 out of 5 people  
do not know that  
they have diabetesWeight 
(ove rweight or obese)Physical  
Inactivit ySmoking80%
OF PEOPLE WITH 
PREDIABETES DO  
NOT KNOW THAT  
THEY HAVE ITDiabetes  
Program Area 
Successes
DIABETES RISK FACTORS
43$1 BILLION
spent on direct healthcare 
costs for diabetes
in Hawai‘i (2012)44HEART DISEASE AND STROKE
More than 859,000 adults in the U.S. and 4,000 in 
Hawai‘i die annually from heart disease, stroke, 
or other cardiovascular diseases.30, 31 The burden 
of cardiovascular disease continues to grow as 
the associated risk factors for the disease also 
increase, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. The 
American Heart Association (AHA) predicts that 
by 2035, nearly half of the U.S. population (131.2 
million people) will have at least one cardiovascular 
condition*.32 Self-reported BRFSS data for Hawai‘i 
reports that approximately 3% of adults have 
coronary heart disease; 3% have had a stroke; 32% 
have high blood cholesterol; and 34% have high 
blood pressure.33 Of those with high blood pressure, 
25% have not taken any medications to control their 
condition.34 Among the Medicare population, 56% 
have high blood pressure, and 46% have high blood 
cholesterol.35, 36
Cardiovascular disease places an enormous burden 
on Hawai‘i’s health and the economy. There are 
over 18,000 hospitalizations annually due to 
cardiovascular disease, which accounts for 22% 
of the state’s hospital costs.37 These costs include 
money spent on services provided within the health 
care system, prescription drugs, home health, and 
other related services.37 Additionally, cardiovascular 
conditions remain a major risk factor for serious 
illness and death related to COVID-19.38Recent changes to national standards for diagnosing 
and classifying high blood pressure are likely to 
assist in Hawai‘i’s fight against cardiovascular 
disease. The definition of high blood pressure 
was changed from 140/90 mm Hg to 130/80 mm 
Hg, which will help maximize the benefits of early 
diagnosis, risk reduction, drug therapy, and lifestyle 
change. Hawai‘i has also successfully implemented 
a community paramedicine program that allows 
paramedics to assist with public health, primary 
care, and prevention services, including home visits 
to help patients manage high blood pressure. These 
successes, along with other policy, systems and 
environmental change strategies highlighted in the 
HHSP , are expected to positively impact the overall 
cardiovascular health of the state.
The strategies and goals of the HHSP include a focus 
on addressing the disproportionate rates of heart 
disease among Hawai‘i’s most at-risk groups: Native 
Hawaiians, Filipinos, and Other Pacific Islanders. 
These subgroups have higher rates of coronary heart 
disease, angina, history of a heart attack, and heart 
attack deaths than the national rate of Caucasian 
persons. According to 2018 BRFSS data, Filipinos in 
Hawai‘i have significantly higher rates of high blood 
pressure, and Japanese have significantly higher 
rates of both high blood pressure and high blood 
cholesterol.4
*Cardiovascular conditions include high blood pressure,  
coronary heart disease, stroke, congestive heart failure, and 
atrial fibrillation.Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death  
nationally and in Hawai‘i.   “Million Hearts” national initiative established  2012 
 National hypertension guidelines updated  2017
Self-measured blood pressure management guidance 
issued by American Heart Association   2019
HEART DISEASE 
AND STROKE 
PRIORITY 
POPULATIONS
» Native Hawaiians
» Filipinos
» Other Pacific Islanders
» Medicaid Beneficiaries
Heart Disease and 
Stroke Risk FactorsFamily 
HistoryPhysical 
Inactivity
Poor 
Diet
High 
Blood 
PressureDiabetes
High 
CholesterolStress0102030405060
High Blood Pressure34%56%
32%46%
High Blood CholesterolHawai‘i High Blood Pressure & 
High Blood Cholesterol Prevalence
Adults     Medicare PopulationPercentageU.S. Cardiovascular 
Disease Costs 
$555 Billion
2016$1.1 Trillion
2030
American Heart Association 
Cardiovascular Disease: A Costly 
Burden for America – Projections 
Through 2035, 2017
Over 1/3  of Federally 
Qualified Health 
Center patients with 
high blood pressure 
do not have their 
condition under controlHeart Disease and Stroke 
Program Area Successes
Health Resources and 
Services Administration, 
Uniform Data System, 2019
4546PHYSICAL ACTIVITY  
AND NUTRITION 
Individuals who are at a healthy weight are less 
likely to develop chronic diseases, experience 
complications during pregnancy, or die at an earlier 
age.39, 40, 41
Overweight and Obesity
During the past 20 years, there has been a dramatic 
increase in obesity in the U.S., and rates remain high. 
In Hawai‘i, nearly 60% of adults are overweight or 
obese, with the highest rates occurring among Native 
Hawaiians (75%) and Other Pacific Islanders (73%).42 
Chinese and Other Asian residents have the lowest 
overweight and obesity rates, followed by Japanese 
and Caucasians.42 Among Hawai‘i’s teenagers, 
obesity and overweight rates are lower (28%) than 
adults.43 However, there are large disparities in 
teen obesity rates across race and ethnicity: almost 
two-thirds (65%) of Other Pacific Islander teenagers 
are overweight or obese.43 The high prevalence of 
these conditions has a significant impact on the 
state’s economy, as Hawai‘i spends an estimated 
$470 million on obesity-related medical costs 
annually.44 Although high rates of overweight and obesity have persisted, they are largely preventable 
with lifestyle modifications such as exercise and 
good nutrition.45
To facilitate the integration of physical activity and 
healthy eating into the daily lives of all residents, 
the HHSP and the Hawai‘i Physical Activity and 
Nutrition Plan 2030 have prioritized policy, systems, 
and environmental change strategies. In the 
past, this approach has resulted in the successful 
implementation of statewide initiatives such as 
Choose Healthy Now, a partnership between 
the State and retailers that provides residents 
opportunities to eat well by highlighting healthier 
food and beverage options at the point of sale. 
Other successful, statewide policies and programs 
have focused on youth, such as the Early Childhood 
Care and Education (ECE) Wellness Guidelines, which 
incorporate physical activity into daily routines and 
learning experiences; and the Healthy Beverage 
Default Policy (HRS § 321-30.3), which requires food 
establishments that serve kid’s meals to have a 
healthy option as the default beverage.Physical inactivity and poor nutrition are the most common 
behavioral risk factors associated with obesity and other 
chronic diseases.  $470 million
state medical cost 
attributable to obesity60%
OF ADULTS ARE  
OVERWEIGHT OR OBESE29% 28%
62% 53%KINDERGARTENERS HIGH SCHOOLERS
LOW-INCOME KŪPUNAOverweight or Obese  
by Priority Populations*Physical Activity  
and Nutrition Program  
Area Successes
Hawai‘i State Department of Education Wellness  
Guidelines Fully Adopted  2011
Choose Healthy Now Expands Statewide   2018  
Early Childhood Care & Education Wellness  
Guidelines Established  2018
Vision Zero Policy Passed  2019
Healthy Default Beverage Policy Passed  2019
PHYSICAL 
ACTIVITY AND 
NUTRITION 
PRIORITY  
POPULATIONS
» Keiki and Youth: 0–18 years old 
» Kūpuna: 65 years and older
» Low-income: gross household
   income at or below 185% of 
   federal poverty level
* Pobutsky, A., Bradbury, E., Reyes-Salvail, F., & Kishaba, G. (2013). Overweight and  
 obesity among Hawai‘i children aged 4 to 5 years enrolled in public schools in 2007-  
 2008 and comparison with a similar 2002-2003 cohort. Hawai‘i journal of medicine &  
 public health: a journal of Asia Pacific Medicine & Public Health, 72(7), 225–236.
 Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse, Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, 2018
 Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse, National Immunization Survey, 2017
4728%
OF HIGH SCHOOL  
AGED-YOUTH  
ARE OVERWEIGHT  
OR OBESEPhysical Activity Barriers
   Limited access to public spaces 
and public transportation
    Lack of safe routes to walk, bike,  
or wheel
Healthy Eating Barriers
   Limited access to affordable, 
nutritious, culturally familiar food 
   Lack of cooking skills and  
nutrition education 
    Excess availability and marketing 
of unhealthy foodAdults who are 
physically active 
can lower their risk 
of premature death, 
chronic disease, and 
some forms of cancer.
Forming healthy eating 
habits helps prevent  
chronic disease.
48Physical Activity
Regular physical activity is vital for health and well-
being. Adults who are physically active can lower 
their risk of premature death, chronic disease, some 
forms of cancers, and falls and their associated 
injuries. For children and adolescents, physical 
activity can improve bone health, cardio-respiratory 
fitness and muscle strength, reduce body fat, and 
help manage symptoms of depression.46 
In Hawai‘i, most adults and youth fail to meet the 
federal guidelines for physical activity. Only 25% of 
adults, 15% of high schoolers, and 20% of middle 
school students report meeting the recommended 
amount of physical activity.47 Data also indicate 
that physical activity levels vary by age and race 
and ethnicity. Only 18% of adults 75+ years old 
meet recommendations, compared to 32% of young 
adults (18-24 years old).47 Similarly, only 17% of 
Chinese adults are getting enough physical activity, 
compared to 31% of Caucasians.47
Nutrition
Good nutrition is important for everyone and 
forming healthy eating habits helps prevent chronic 
diseases like obesity, type 2 diabetes, and high 
blood pressure. Most Americans, however, tend 
to have diets high in sugar, saturated fats, and 
sodium, and do not consume the recommended 
amounts of fruits and vegetables. Across Hawai‘i, 
both youth and adults show low rates of fruit and 
vegetable consumption. Among high schoolers, 
only 14% eat the recommended amounts of fruits 
and vegetables, with Japanese youth having 
the lowest rate (8%).53 Additionally, only 1 in 5 
adults eat enough fruit and vegetables, with only 
13% of Japanese adults eating the recommended 
five servings a day.4757%
OF INFANTS EXCLUSIVELY 
BREASTFED AT 3 MONTHS
Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse,  
National Immunization Survey, 2017
4920% of adults  
eat the 
recommended 
amount of fruits 
and vegetables14% of high 
school aged-
youth eat the 
recommended 
amount of fruits 
and vegetables1 out of 4 adults  
meet physical activity 
recommendationsFewer than  
1 in 5  
middle and 
high school 
students meet 
physical activity 
recommendations50TOBACCO PREVENTION  
AND CONTROL
Approximately 14% of U.S. adults and 6% of youth 
currently smoke cigarettes.48 Cigarette smoking 
leads to disease and disability, and harms nearly 
every organ of the body as it causes cancer, heart 
disease, stroke, lung diseases, type 2 diabetes, and 
chronic health conditions.49 In Hawai‘i, about 13% of 
adults and 5% of youth currently smoke cigarettes.54 
Smoking claims 1,400 adult lives each year and will 
contribute to 21,000 premature deaths for children 
and youth under 18 years old living in Hawai‘i.50 
Annually, $526 million in health care costs are directly 
attributed to smoking in the state.50
Hawai‘i has made great strides in tobacco control 
efforts, which has resulted in lower tobacco use 
rates (20% adult smokers in 1998 vs. 13% in 2018).51 
In 2006, Hawai‘i was the fourteenth state to pass 
comprehensive smoke-free legislation, and in 2014 
smoking became illegal on all state-owned, public 
housing properties. Over the last five years, Hawai‘i 
became the first state to raise the legal age of sales 
for tobacco from 18 to 21; electronic cigarettes 
(e-cigarettes) were banned wherever smoking is 
prohibited; and all four major counties implemented 
ordinances that prohibited smoking and vaping in a 
vehicle whenever a minor is present. Despite past successes and an overall decrease in 
tobacco use, there are subgroups and communities 
in the state that show persistently higher smoking 
rates. For example, the prevalence of smoking in the 
Native Hawaiian population is 22%, and persons 
with a diagnosed depressive disorder are at 26%.52 
Approximately one in three individuals who report 
heavy drinking also smoke cigarettes, and almost 
22% of the LGBT community smokes.52 The smoking 
rates vary across socioeconomic factors as well. 
Twenty-two percent of adults with lower incomes 
(<$25,000) smoke, as well as 32% of adults who are 
unemployed, and 26% of adults with less than a high 
school education.52
More recently, the explosion of new and novel 
tobacco products, such as e-cigarettes, has 
overwhelmed the community. Hawaii youth in 2019 
had among the highest e-cigarette use rates in the 
nation, with 31% of high school and 18% of middle 
school students reporting regular use. During 2019, 
high school use in rural, neighbor island counties 
fared even worse, with Kauai at 36%, Maui at 36%, 
and Hawaii County at 35%.54 Moving forward, 
regulation of e-cigarettes, expansion of smoke-free 
policies, increases in tobacco prices, and additional 
youth access policies are needed, along with 
culturally tailored cessation services to reach our 
most vulnerable communities.Tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable death and 
disease in the U.S. and remains a public health priority. Youth rise in e-cigarette use in recent years compared 
with cigarette smoking in Hawai ‘i (YRBS)
Teens (grades 9-12) who smoke cigarettes
Teens (grades 9-12) who use e-cigarettes2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 201905101520253035Hawai‘i is the first state in the nation to raise the 
legal age of tobacco sales to 21   2015 
E-cigarettes are prohibited wherever smoking is  
not allowed  2015 
Smoking and vaping are prohibited in vehicles with 
minors present  2017–2018Tobacco Program 
Area Successes  
Proven population-based 
measures to reduce tobacco use
Tobacco price 
increases
Smoke-free 
policiesHard hitting  
media campaigns
Cessation 
access$526 million
healthcare costs directly  
attributed to smoking
$142 million
Medicaid costs related  
to smoking
$835 per  
household
Residents’ state and federal  
tax burden from smoking-caused 
government expenditures
$387 million
Smoking-caused productivity  
losses in Hawai‘i
Retrieved from Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids,  
Toll of Tobacco in Hawai‘i November 4, 2020  
https://www.tobaccofreekids.org/problem/toll-
us/hawaii Annual healthcare 
costs in Hawai‘i
TOBACCO 
PRIORITY 
POPULATIONS
» Native Hawaiians
» Youth
» LGBT
» Low Socioeconomic Status
» Behavioral Health Conditions
5152UNIFIED PLANNING APPROACH
Prior to the HHSP , individual state plans outlined 
objectives and strategies for each risk factor and 
chronic disease. Recognizing the opportunity to 
improve collaboration and better leverage resources 
and efforts, leaders and stakeholders decided that 
a single, coordinated plan to prevent and reduce 
chronic disease would be developed and encompass 
the following program areas:
»  Asthma 
»  Cancer
»  Diabetes
»  Heart Disease and Stroke
»  Physical Activity and Nutrition
»  Tobacco 
Moving to a harmonized planning approach enables 
coordination of multiple programs across common 
risk factors, interventions, and strategies. It also 
facilitates the expansion of evidence-based policies, 
programs, and services, and keeps Hawai‘i in step 
with national funding requirements, recommended 
strategies, and best practices that combine 
multiple health areas and address the spectrum of 
chronic disease. 
HHSP ADVISORY GROUP MEETINGS 
The development of the HHSP began in May 2019 
with the initial meeting of the HHSP Advisory Group. 
The Advisory Group consisted of diverse stakeholders 
who set the framework for the development of the 
strategic plan. The approach to developing the 
coordinated HHSP centered on four sector areas: 
Community Design and Access, Education, Health 
Care and Worksite. Utilizing these settings focuses 
disease prevention, detection, and management 
efforts on areas where people spend most of their 
time. The Advisory Group convened periodically 
during the strategic planning process to ensure that 
progress aligned with the overall purpose and vision 
of the plan.STAKEHOLDER KICK-OFF MEETING
A stakeholder kick-off meeting was held in July 2019. 
Participants from the various program areas were 
provided an overview of the previous individual state 
plans, past accomplishments, and current challenges.  
The group was then tasked with envisioning the 
policy, systems, and environmental change needed 
in each sector that would serve as the foundation of 
the HHSP . 
PROGRAM AREA STAKEHOLDER MEETINGS
Equipped with the vision of a healthier Hawai‘i, 
stakeholders and content experts then met within 
their program areas to generate objectives and 
strategies for the HHSP . Program area discussions 
centered on population-based strategies and 
programs that would develop local capacity and 
empower infrastructures to combat health disparities. 
This collaborative process brought together 
representation from health care systems; academic 
institutions; private and non-profit groups; 
professional and community organizations; state 
and county government agencies; and resulted in 
the comprehensive, population-based approach of 
the HHSP .
Moving to a harmonized 
planning approach 
enables coordination of 
multiple programs  
across common risk 
factors, interventions,  
and strategies.HOW THE PLAN WAS DEVELOPED53IMPLEMENTATION
CONTINUED COORDINATION AND ACTIVE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ARE NEEDED TO 
ACHIEVE THE HHSP OBJECTIVES BY 2030. 
Program area stakeholder groups continue to meet regularly to implement the plan’s objectives and strategies, 
and to monitor and evaluate progress. The HHSP is meant to be a dynamic document that is assessed and 
updated throughout the plan’s timeframe. Stakeholder group membership is expected to change to assure an 
inclusive, community-based participatory approach to realize the plan’s goals. The plan is meant for public 
dissemination and will be available online at www.HHSP.hawaii.gov.
LONG-TERM MEASURES
The long-term measures were identified to summarize and evaluate progress toward achieving the HHSP 
objectives. The long-term measures will be monitored throughout the decade to collectively illustrate the 
overall health and well-being of the people of Hawai‘i and demonstrate improvements. Long-term measures 
will be reviewed and updated periodically as changes are made to the HHSP .
PROGRAM AREA LONG-TERM MEASURE BASELINE TARGET
Asthma Hospitalizations for 
AsthmaChildren under 5 years of age:  
17.5 per 100,000 (HHIC, 2015)
Persons between 5-64 years of age:  
5.2 per 100,000 (HHIC, 2015)
Adults 65 years of age and older:  
15.5 per 100,000 (HHIC, 2015)Children under 5 years of age:  
14.9 per 100,000
Persons between 5-64 years of age:  
4.4 per 100,000
Adults 65 years of age and older:  
13.2 per 100,000
Asthma ED Visits for Asthma Children under 5 years of age:  
98.9 per 10,000 (HHIC, 2015)
Persons between 5-64 years of age: 
51.9 per 10,000 (HHIC, 2015)
Adults 65 years of age and older:  
30.9 per 10,000 (HHIC, 2015)Children under 5 years of age:  
84.1 per 10,000
Persons between 5-64 years of age: 
44.1 per 10,000
Adults 65 years of age and older:  
26.3 per 10,000
Asthma Use of Appropriate 
Medications for Asthma82.5% (UDS, 2019) 91.6%
Cancer Cancer death rate 128.5 per 100,000 (CDC National 
Center for Health Statistics National 
Vital Statistics System, 2017)122.7 per 100,000
Cancer Lung cancer death rate 28.4 per 100,000 (CDC National Center 
for Health Statistics National Vital 
Statistics System, 2017)25.1 per 100,000
Cancer Breast cancer  
death rate15.6 per 100,000 (CDC National Center 
for Health Statistics National Vital 
Statistics System, 2017)15.3 per 100,00054PROGRAM AREA LONG-TERM MEASURE BASELINE TARGET
Cancer Colon cancer  
death rate11.7 per 100,000 (CDC National Center 
for Health Statistics National Vital 
Statistics System, 2017)8.9 per 100,000
Cancer Prostate cancer  
death rate14.5 per 100,000 (CDC National Center 
for Health Statistics National Vital 
Statistics System, 2017)12.6 per 100,000
Cancer Mammogram in  
the past 2 years  
(ages 50-74) 87.0% (BRFSS, 2018) 97.4%
Cancer Pap test in the past  
3 years (ages 21-65) 82.7% (BRFSS, 2018) 92.6%
Cancer Colorectal cancer 
screening (ages 50-75)75.1% (BRFSS, 2018) 84.1%
Cancer Five-year cancer 
survivorship66.7% (BRFSS, 2012) 78.7%
Cancer Sunscreen use  
(ages 11-18)Middle school students: 11.5%  
(YRBS, 2017)
High school students: 11.7%  
(YRBS, 2017)Middle school students: 13.0%
High school students: 13.2%
Diabetes Diabetes death rate - 
multiple cause of death60.1 per 100,000 (DOH Vital Statistics, 
2018)52.9 per 100,000
Diabetes New cases of diabetes 7.6 per 1,000  
(CDC Diabetes Atlas, 2015)5.6 per 1,000
Diabetes Diabetes test in the past 
3 years (ages 40-70, BMI 
over 25)65.3% (BRFSS, 2018) 73.1%
Diabetes People with diagnosed 
diabetes who received 
formal diabetes education56.0% (BRFSS, 2016) 63.8%
Diabetes People with diabetes with 
an A1c greater than 934.9% (UDS, 2019) 31.1%
Heart Disease 
and StrokeCoronary heart disease 
death rate 66.0 per 100,000 (CDC Interactive 
Atlas of Heart Disease and Stroke, 
2016-2018)58.1 per 100,000
Heart Disease 
and StrokeStroke death rate 36.0 per 100,000 (CDC Interactive 
Atlas of Heart Disease and Stroke, 
2016-2018)33.4 per 100,00055PROGRAM AREA LONG-TERM MEASURE BASELINE TARGET
Heart Disease 
and StrokeAdults (with high blood 
pressure) who report 
taking medications for 
high blood pressure75.0% (BRFSS, 2017) 84.8%
Heart Disease 
and StrokeAdults with hypertension 
with controlled blood 
pressure 63.1% (UDS, 2019) 70%
Heart Disease 
and StrokeAdults at risk for 
cardiovascular events 
prescribed statin therapy 
(age 21 years and older)68.7% (UDS, 2019) 76.3%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionAdults who eat five or 
more servings of fruits and 
vegetables per day19.8% (BRFSS, 2015) 22.8%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionTeens (high school) who 
eat five or more servings 
of fruits and vegetables 
per day14.2% (YRBS, 2017) 16.0%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionAdults who have a healthy 
body weight (BMI 18.5 - 
25.0)37.9% (BRFSS, 2018) 42.4%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionTeens (high school) who 
have a healthy body 
weight (BMI 18.5 - 25.0)71.6% (YRBS, 2017) 80.9%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionAdults who meet aerobic 
PA guidelines (150 minutes 
per week)56.5% (BRFSS, 2017) 63.8%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionAdults who meet muscle 
strengthening PA 
guidelines (2 or more days 
per week)35.4% (BRFSS, 2017) 40.0%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionTeens (high school) who 
meet aerobic PA guidelines 
(60 minutes per day)19.6% (YRBS, 2017) 30.6%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionTeens (high school) who 
meet muscle strengthening 
PA guidelines (3 or more 
days per week)42.4% (YRBS, 2017) 56.1%56PROGRAM AREA LONG-TERM MEASURE BASELINE TARGET
Physical Activity 
and NutritionYoung teens (middle school) who meet aerobic PA 
guidelines (60 minutes per day)27.0% (YRBS, 2017) 30.5%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionYoung teens (middle school) who meet muscle 
strengthening PA guidelines (3 or more days per 
week) 50.6% (YRBS, 2017) 57.2%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionAdults who self-reported their health status as 
‘Good’, ‘Very Good’, or ‘Excellent.’83.7% (BRFSS, 2018) 93.7%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionAdults who drink soda (non-diet) at least once/day 11.7% (BRFSS, 2017) 10.2%
Physical Activity 
and Nutrition Teens (high school) who drink soda (non-diet) at 
least once/day11.0% (YRBS, 2017) 9.6%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionInfants who were breastfed exclusively at  
6 months30.6% (NIS, 2017) 42.4%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionInfants who were breastfed exclusively through  
3 months57.4% (NIS, 2017) 64.9%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionInfants who were ever breastfed 89.1% (NIS, 2017) 94.9%
Physical Activity 
and NutritionInfants still breastfeeding at 8 weeks 79.4% (PRAMS, 2016) 90.5%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among adults in Hawai‘i 13.4% (BRFSS, 2018) 5%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among Native Hawaiian 
adults  22.3% (BRFSS, 2018) 8.3%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among adults with low 
income 22.1% (BRFSS, 2018) 8.2%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among adults who are 
unemployed 32.3% (BRFSS, 2018) 12%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among adults with low 
educational attainment (less than a HS diploma/
GED)26.4% (BRFSS, 2018) 9.8%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among adults with diagnosed 
depressive disorder  25.5% (BRFSS, 2018) 9.5%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among adults who reported at 
least 14 poor mental health days in the last 30 days24.9% (BRFSS, 2018) 9.3%57PROGRAM AREA LONG-TERM MEASURE BASELINE TARGET
Tobacco Current cigarette use among adults who reported 
excessive drinking 24.0% (BRFSS, 2018) 9%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among adults who identify as 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender 21.6% (BRFSS, 2018) 8.1%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among young teens (middle 
school)3.9% (National YRBS, 2019) 3.4%
Tobacco Current cigarette use among teens (high school) 5.3% (National YRBS, 2019) 3.4%
Tobacco Current e-cigarette use among young teens 
(middle school)17.7% (National YRBS, 2019) 10.5%
Tobacco Current e-cigarette use among teens (high school) 30.6% (National YRBS, 2019) 10.5%
Tobacco Young teens (middle school) who never tried 
smoking cigarettes89.5% (National YRBS, 2019) 99.3%
Tobacco Teens (high school) who never tried smoking cigarettes 82.2% (National YRBS, 2019) 91.2%
Tobacco Young teens (middle school) who never tried e-cigarettes  69.4% (National YRBS, 2019) 77%
Tobacco Teens (high school) who never tried e-cigarettes 51.7% (National YRBS, 2019) 57.4%
Tobacco Adult awareness of Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline Services 72.3% (BRFSS, 2018) 81%
Tobacco Insurance plan coverage for smoking cessation 62.4% (BRFSS, 2015) 71.8%
Tobacco Adults who tried to quit smoking 56.4% (BRFSS, 2018) 65.7%
Tobacco Young teens (middle school) who tried to quit using 
tobacco in the last year57% (YTS, 2019) 63.3%
Tobacco Teens (high school) who tried to quit using tobacco 
in the last year60% (YTS, 2019) 66.6%
Tobacco Young teens (middle school) who have been 
exposed to secondhand smoke (SHS) in the home27% (YTS, 2019) 24.0%
Tobacco Teens (high school) who have been exposed to 
secondhand smoke in the home30% (YTS, 2019) 26.7%
Tobacco Adult who are exposed to SHS inside their living space 
from somewhere else in or around their buildingNo baseline TBD58PARTNERS
The work of the HHSP is led by the Hawai‘i State Department of Health Chronic Disease Prevention 
and Health Promotion Division (CDPHPD). CDPHPD promotes health and reduces the burden of chronic 
disease by empowering communities, influencing social norms, and supporting and encouraging 
individuals to make healthy lifestyle choices. 
CDPHPD utilizes an integrative and coordinated approach to assemble and unite partner agencies 
statewide to build a shared vision, implement strategies, and secure resources that will improve the 
health of the people of Hawai‘i. Contributions of time, energy, resources, and expertise are provided by 
the following partner agencies and organizations:
Alan Parsa  The Queen’s Medical Center 
Amy Asselbaye  City and County of Honolulu
Brian Wu  Hawai‘i Medical Service Association  
Bryan Juan  Hawai‘i Primary Care Association
Carl Barton  Derigo Health
Catherine Pirkle  University of Hawai‘i (UH)   
 Office of Public Health Studies
Christina Simmons  YMCA of Honolulu  
Cory Chun  Formerly with the American  
 Cancer Society
Cristeta Ancog  Pediatrician
Cristina Vocalan  Hawai‘i Primary  
 Care Association
Cynthia Au  American Cancer Society
Don Weisman  American Heart Association
Jennifer Ryan  Hawai‘i State Department  
 of Education
Jessica Yamauchi  Hawai‘i Public Health InstituteJoseph Humphry  Internal Medicine Physician
Kristen Frost Albrecht  The Food Basket
Marie Williams  County of Kaua‘i
Mark Garrity  Urban Pacific Consulting, LLC
May Kealoha  University of Hawai‘i
May Okihiro  Pediatrician
May Rose Dela Cruz  UH Office of  
 Public Health Studies
Monica Esquivel  UH Dept. of Human Nutrition,  
 Food and Animal Sciences
Naomi Fukuda  The Queen’s Medical Center
Paula Higuchi  UH Cancer Center
Ron Sanderson  American Lung Association
Shane Morita  The Queen’s Medical Center
Sheri-Ann Daniels  Papa Ola Lokahi
Tetine Sentell  UH Office of Public Health Studies
Valerie Davison  UHA Health InsuranceADVISORY GROUP MEMBERS
The HHSP Advisory Group members are partners from across the state who provide input on the 
vision, purpose, and development process of the plan. Thank you to these respected leaders who 
offer valuable advice and expertise.59PROGRAM AREA PARTNERS
Thank you to the numerous individuals  
and organizations who contributed to the  
development of this plan. These diverse  
and esteemed partners are listed in the  
following comprehensive, chronic disease  
strategic plans for the state.
»  Hawai‘i Asthma Plan 2030
»  Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030
»  Hawai‘i Diabetes Plan 2030
»  Hawai‘i Heart Disease and Stroke Plan 2030
»  Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Plan 2030
»  Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 2030
PARTNERS IN COMMON
CDC’s National Center for Chronic  
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion  
–established to build and strengthen  
state health department capacity and  
expertise to effectively prevent chronic  
disease and promote health
FACILITATOR
Dave Nakashima60AHA  American Heart Association
ASME Asthma Self-Management Education
BMI Body Mass Index
BRFSS Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System
CDC  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CDPHPD  Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Division
CHW  Community Health Worker
DOE Department of Education
DOH Department of Health
DPCP  Diabetes Prevention and Control Program
DPP Diabetes Prevention Program
DSMES Diabetes Self-Management Education and Support Services
EBI Evidence-Based Intervention
ECE Early Childhood and Education
ESD Electronic Smoking Device
FQHC  Federally Qualified Health Center
HCCC  Hawai‘i Comprehensive Cancer Coalition 
HHSP Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan
HIT Health Information Technology
HMSA Hawai‘i Medical Service Association
HPCA  Hawai‘i Primary Care Association
HPV Human Papillomavirus
HRSA Health Resources Services Administration
LGBTQ We acknowledge the limited representativeness of this acronym and recognize all sexual 
 and gender minority communities, including but not limited to lesbian women, gay men, bisexual, 
 transgender, and queer or questioning people.
MTM Medication Therapy Management
PAN  Physical Activity and Nutrition
PSE Policy, Systems and Environmental Change
SMART Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-Bound
UH University of Hawai‘i
UHA   University Health Alliance
U.S. United States
VFC Vaccines For ChildrenLIST OF ACRONYMS61REFERENCES
1 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2019). 
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on February 12, 2021. 
2 Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease. What is the Impact of Chronic Disease on Hawaii? https://www.fightchronicdisease.org/
sites/default/files/download/PFCD_HI_FactSheet_FINAL1.pdf . Accessed May 21, 2021.
3 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National Center for Health Statistics—Stats of the State of Hawai‘i.  
https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/pressroom/states/hawaii/hawaii.htm. Accessed May 21, 2021.
4 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2018). 
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on November 20, 2020.
5 McGuire, S. (2012). Institute of Medicine. 2012. Accelerating Progress in Obesity Prevention: Solving the Weight of the Nation. 
Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. Advances in Nutrition, 3(5), 708–709. https://doi.org/10.3945/an.112.002733
6 Sentell T, Choi SY, Ching L, Quensell M, Keliikoa LB, Corriveau É, et al. Prevalence of Selected Chronic Conditions Among 
Children, Adolescents, and Young Adults in Acute Care Settings in Hawai‘i. Prev Chronic Dis 2020 ;17:190448.  
DOI: https://doi.org/10.5888/pcd17.190448
7 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Youth Risk Behavior Survey Module. (2017).  
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on November 20, 2020.
8 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Annual Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Years of Potential Life Lost, and Economic 
Costs—United States, 1995-1999. MMWR. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 51(14), 300-3. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/
preview/mmwrhtml/mm5114a2.htm . Accessed May 21, 2021.
9 Mokdad, A. H., Marks, J. S., Stroup, D. F., & Gerberding, J. L. (2004). Actual Causes of Death in the United States, 2000. JAMA, 
291(10), 1238–1245. https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.291.10.1238
10 Torres, K. Y. (2010). Chronic Disease Epidemiology and Control, 3rd Edition. Preventing Chronic Disease, 8(1), Article 1.  
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3044036/
11 U.S. Census Bureau. (2020). Hawai‘i population characteristics 2019. Retrieved from  
https://census.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Hawaii-Population-Characteristics-2019.pdf
12 Holmes, J.H., Tootoo, J.L., Chosy, J.E., Bowie, A.Y., Starr, R.R. Examining Variation in Life Expectancy Estimates by ZIP Code 
Tabulation Area (ZCTA) in Hawai‘i’s Four Main Counties, 2008-2012. Preventing Chronic Disease Public Health Research, Practice, 
and Policy 15 (E114), 1-3. 
13 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. An Investment in America’s Health. (2013). https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/pdfs/
investment_americas_health.pdf . Accessed May 21, 2021.
14 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Most Recent Asthma State and Territory Data. https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/
most_recent_data_states.htm . Accessed Mar 24, 2020.
15 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2018). 
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on April 3, 2020.
16 National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. (2007). Expert Panel Report 3: Guidelines for the Diagnosis and 
Management of Asthma. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/sites/default/files/media/docs/
asthsumm.pdf . Accessed May 21, 2021.
17 Hawai‘i Health Information Corporation (2016).
18 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2016). 
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on April 3, 2020.6219 American Lung Association. (2017). Medicaid Coverage of Asthma Self-Management Education: A Ten-State Analysis of 
Services, Providers and Settings. https://www.lung.org/getmedia/f78229bf-64fd-421a-97c4-ea355f6b9314/medicaid-
coverage-of-asthma-self-management-education.pdf.pdf . Accessed October 26, 2020.
20 University of Hawaii Cancer Center. Hawai’i Cancer at a Glance 2012-2016.  
https://www.uhcancercenter.org/pdf/htr/Hawaii%20Cancer%20at%20a%20Glance%202012_2016.pdf .  
Accessed May 21, 2021.
21 Alcaraz, K. I., Wiedt, T. L., Daniels, E. C., Yabroff, K. R., Guerra, C. E., & Wender, R. C. (2020). Understanding and addressing 
social determinants to advance cancer health equity in the United States: A blueprint for practice, research, and policy. CA: A 
Cancer Journal for Clinicians, 70(1), 31–46. https://doi.org/10.3322/caac.21586
22 Tsark, J. U., & Braun, K. L. (2009). Eyes on the Pacific: Cancer Issues of Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders in Hawai’i 
and the US-Associated Pacific. Journal of Cancer Education : The Official Journal of the American Association for Cancer 
Education, 24 (Suppl 2), S68–S69. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2914228/
23 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2018). 
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on April 24, 2020.
24 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National diabetes statistics Report 2020. https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/pdfs/
data/statistics/national-diabetes-statistics-report.pdf-statistics-report.pdf . Accessed May 21, 2021.
25 Healthy Resources and Services Administration. Hawaii Health Center Data. https://data.hrsa.gov/tools/data-reporting/
program-data/state/HI#fn13 . Accessed November 21, 2020.
26 American Diabetes Association. Economic Costs of Diabetes in the U.S. in 2017. (2018). Diabetes Care, 41(5), 917–928. 
https://care.diabetesjournals.org/content/41/5/917 . Accessed May 21, 2021.
27 American Diabetes Association. The Burden of Diabetes in Hawaii. http://main.diabetes.org/dorg/PDFs/Advocacy/burden-
of-diabetes/hawaii.pdf . Accessed October 26, 2020.
28 Uchima O, Wu YY, Browne C, Braun KL. “Disparities in Diabetes Prevalence Among Native Hawaiians/Other Pacific Islanders 
and Asians in Hawai‘i.” Prev Chronic Dis  2019;16:180-187.
29 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Diabetes Risk Factors. https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/basics/risk-factors.html. 
Accessed March 24, 2020.
30 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Heart Disease and Stroke. https://www.cdc.gov/chronicdisease/resources/
publications/factsheets/heart-disease-stroke.htm. Accessed October 7, 2020.
31 Hawai’i State Department of Health, Hawai’i Health Data Warehouse. Hawaii’s Indicator Based Information System, “Why 
It’s Important”. http://ibis.hhdw.org/ibisph-view/topic/CVD.html. Accessed on May 21, 2021.
32 American Heart Association. Heart on the Hill—February 2017. https://www.heart.org/en/get-involved/advocate/heart-
on-the-hill/heart-on-the-hill-february-2017 . Accessed November 21, 2020.
33 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2017). 
http://hawaiihealthmatters.org. Accessed on December 15, 2020.
34 Hawaii Health Matters: Indicators: All Data. Retrieved November 21, 2020, from http://www.hawaiihealthmatters.org/
indicators/index/view?indicatorId=5681&localeId=14
35 Hawaii Health Matters: Indicators: Hyperlipidemia: Medicare Population: State: Hawaii. Retrieved November 21, 2020, from 
http://www.hawaiihealthmatters.org/indicators/index/view?indicatorId=2061&localeId=14
36 Hawaii Health Matters: Indicators: Hypertension: Medicare Population: State: Hawaii. Retrieved November 21, 2020, from 
http://www.hawaiihealthmatters.org/indicators/index/view?indicatorId=2063&localeId=14
37 American Heart Association (2017). Cardiovascular Disease: A Costly Burden for America Projections Through 2035.  
https://www.heart.org/-/media/files/get-involved/advocacy/burden-report-consumer-report.pdf?la=en
38 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Covid-19—People at Increased Risk And Other People Who Need to Take Extra 
Precautions. https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/need-extra-precautions/index.html. Accessed February 11, 2020.6339 National Institutes of Health (NIH). (1998). National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and National Institute of Diabetes and 
Digestive and Kidney Diseases. Clinical guidelines on the identification, evaluation, and treatment of overweight and obesity in 
adults : The evidence report. Bethesda, MD: NIH
40 World Health Organization (WHO). (1999). Obesity: Preventing and managing the global epidemic. Geneva: WHO.
41 Dietz, W. H. (1998). Health consequences of obesity in youth: Childhood predictors of adult disease. Pediatrics, 101(3 Pt 2), 
518–525.
42 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2018). 
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on March 23, 2020.
43 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Youth Risk Behavior Survey Module. (2017). http://
hhdw.org. Accessed on March 25, 2020.
44 Trogdon, J. G., Finkelstein, E. A., Feagan, C. W., & Cohen, J. W. (2012). State- and payer-specific estimates of annual medical 
expenditures attributable to obesity. Obesity (Silver Spring, Md.), 20(1), 214–220. https://doi.org/10.1038/oby.2011.169
45 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Overweight & Obesity—Strategies to Prevent Obesity. https://www.cdc.gov/
obesity/strategies/index.html. Accessed March 24, 2020.
46 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC Healthy Schools—Physical Activity Facts. https://www.cdc.gov/healthyschools/
physicalactivity/facts.htm. Accessed March 24, 2020.
47 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2017). 
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on March 23, 2020.
48 Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. The Toll of Tobacco in the United States. https://www.tobaccofreekids.org/problem/toll-us . 
Accessed May 21, 2021.
49 United States Surgeon General. (2014). The Health Consequences of Smoking — 50 Years of progress: A Report of the Surgeon 
General: (510072014-001)  [Data set]. American Psychological Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/e510072014-001
50 Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. The Toll of Tobacco in Hawaii. https://www.tobaccofreekids.org/problem/toll-us/hawaii. 
Accessed May 21, 2021.
51 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (1997 and 
2018). http://hhdw.org. Accessed on October 26, 2020.  
52 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2018). 
http://hhdw.org. Accessed on October 26, 2020.
53 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Youth Risk Behavior Survey. (2017). http://hhdw.org. 
Accessed on October 26, 2020. 
54 Hawaii State Department of Health, Hawaii Data Warehouse: Youth Risk Behavior Survey. (2019). http://hhdw.org. Accessed 
on May 21, 2021.David Ige, Governor of Hawai‘i
Elizabeth A. Char, M.D., Director of Health
For more information contact:
Hawai‘i State Department of Health
Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Division
1250 Punchbowl St. Room 422
Honolulu, Hawai‘i 96813
PHONE: (808) 586-4488
The HHSP can be accessed, downloaded, and interacted with  
at the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.gov
Non Discrimination in Services
We provide access to our programs and activities without  
regard to race, color, national origin, language, age, sex, religion, or disability.  
Write or call the Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Division  
or our Affirmative Action Officer at P .O. Box 3378, Honolulu Hawai‘i 96801-3378  
or (808) 586-4110 (voice/TTY) within 180 days of a discrimination incident.
Date of Publication: June 2021  •  Date of Printing: June 2021

--- Text from PDF (https://hhsp.hawaii.gov/assets/pdf/HHSP_Executive Summary_WEB.pdf) ---
Healthy Hawai‘i  
Strategic Plan 2030 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2VISION
Healthy People, Healthy Communities, Healthy Hawai‘i
MISSION
Shape environments, policies, and systems to support wellness and improve the 
quality and years of life for Hawai‘i’s people
GOALS
» Improve health and wellness.
» Decrease premature death and  
 disability from chronic disease.» Increase quality of life years  
 among Hawai‘i residents. 
» Reduce health disparities.3INTRODUCTION
The Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030 (HHSP) Executive 
Summary provides an overview of the HHSP , a ten-year 
roadmap for preventing and reducing chronic disease in 
the state. 
In Hawai‘i, chronic diseases are among the most prevalent, 
costly, and preventable of all health problems. Sixty-
four percent of adults are living with at least one chronic 
condition such as diabetes or heart disease, and chronic 
diseases account for the top three leading causes of 
death.1, 2 The rapidly increasing prevalence of chronic 
disease conditions and their associated risk factors 
makes the coordination of chronic disease prevention 
and management efforts essential. Coordinated practice 
improves collaboration between stakeholders, reduces 
duplication, and leverages resources to effectively address 
common risk factors through evidence-based policy, 
systems, and environmental change.
The HHSP coordinates and aligns activities for the following 
chronic disease prevention and management areas:
» Asthma
» Cancer
» Diabetes
» Heart Disease and Stroke
» Physical Activity and Nutrition
» TobaccoCOMMUNITY DESIGN & ACCESS 
Public spaces (parks, community  
centers, and places of worship),  
physical infrastructure  
(sidewalks and bike lanes),  
and retail locations
WORKSITE
Public and private work 
environmentsEDUCATION
Public and private childcare 
and aftercare facilities,  
pre-kindergarten through 
12th grade schools,  
and higher educationHEALTH CARE
Public and private 
health care 
delivery sitesSECTOR AREAS 
Places (both physical & 
virtual) where policy,  
systems, and environmental 
change can be established 
to support the formation 
and maintenance of healthy 
behaviors, achieving health 
equity, and maximizing 
chronic disease prevention, 
management, and treatment.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Changes that are made to the 
physical/built environment.
Physical (structural changes 
or programs or service), 
social (a positive change 
in attitudes or behavior 
about policies that promote 
health) and economic 
factors (presence of 
financial disincentives or 
incentives to encourage a 
desired behavior).SYSTEMS
Changes made to rules 
within an organization.
Systems change and policy 
change often work hand-
in-hand. Often systems 
change focuses on changing 
infrastructure within a 
school, park, worksite, or 
health setting. POLICY
Policies at the legislative or 
organizational level.
Institutionalizing new rules 
or procedures as well as 
passing laws, ordinances, or 
resolutions are examples of 
policy changes. »  POLICY, SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE
Integral to the framework and design of the HHSP is the focus on policy, systems, and environmental change.  
The plan’s long-term goals, objectives, and strategies were developed to align with national guidelines and 
recommendations and to reflect or lead to policy, systems, or environmental change.
4The HHSP incorporates principles of the Social Ecological Model and is organized into four sector areas: 
Community Design and Access, Education, Health Care, and Worksite. The plan prioritizes goals, objectives, and 
strategies that lead to policy, systems, and environmental change. Objectives were developed using current data, 
best practices, and evidence-based science, and reflect one or more cross-cutting themes.*PLAN FRAMEWORK
*Additional information on the plan framework can be found at the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.govAdults with Chronic Diseases, Hawaii
Chronic Diseases: Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawaii
Asthma
16%Diabetes
12%Obesity
25%High Blood 
Cholesterol
32%High Blood 
Pressure
34%Cancer
9%Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawaii
Chronic Diseases: Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawaii
Asthma
16%Diabetes
12%Obesity
25%High Blood 
Cholesterol
32%High Blood 
Pressure
34%Cancer
9%Adults with Chronic Diseases, Hawai‘i
Hawai‘i Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, 2017, 2018Hawai‘i Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, 2015, 2017, 2018Risk Factors for Chronic Diseases
Adults Not Meeting the 
Physical Activity  
Recommendations 75%Adults Eating  
Less Than  
5 Fruits and  
Vegetables  
a Day80%Adults  
Smoking  
Cigarettes13%
5The past two decades have seen unprecedented 
increases in chronic disease and obesity due to 
pronounced changes in the environment, behavior, 
and lifestyle. The annual costs of chronic diseases 
in Hawai‘i are projected to be $9 billion in direct 
medical costs and an additional $3.2 billion in 
indirect costs due to lost employee productivity 
(average per year 2016–2030).3 If the current trend 
continues, by 2030 the projected cost per Hawai‘i 
resident would be $8,300 per year.3 Through better 
prevention and treatment of chronic diseases, 
these projected rates can be significantly reduced.3 
Additionally, minimizing preventable hospitalizations 
would improve health equity, reduce health care 
costs, and prevent overwhelming the state’s health 
care system during crises such as the COVID-19 
pandemic. A study in the Journal of the American 
Heart Association , published in 2021, estimated 
almost two-thirds of COVID-19 hospitalizations 
in the U.S. to be attributed to obesity, diabetes, 
hypertension, and heart failure.
Most chronic diseases can be prevented by eating 
well, being physically active, avoiding tobacco, and 
getting regular health screenings. Tobacco use is the 
single most preventable cause of death and disease, followed by physical inactivity and poor nutrition.4,5 
These three risk factors are major contributors to the 
development of chronic diseases such as asthma, 
diabetes, many types of cancer, and heart disease 
and stroke.6
The COVID-19 global pandemic highlights the 
necessity for a comprehensive approach that 
supports innovative changes in both the public health 
and health care delivery systems. Adopting such an 
approach would address the needs of all people, 
including priority populations, by promoting efficient 
coordination between public health and health care 
and adapting to rapidly changing circumstances that 
impact population health.
Partners across the state of Hawai‘i who developed 
the HHSP are committed to preventing chronic 
disease for all residents. Recent success in large-
scale public health interventions is the result of going 
beyond programming to focus on policy, systems, and 
environmental change approaches. The HHSP is a 
strategic plan that focuses on creating higher order 
environmental, policy and systems changes that 
make healthy behaviors the “default” choice.BACKGROUND6Priority Populations
Hawai‘i is one of the most diverse states in the 
nation. The state’s main population groups are 
Native Hawaiians, Japanese, Chinese, Filipinos 
and Caucasians. Hawai‘i has a larger percentage 
of Native Hawaiians, Other Pacific Islanders, and 
multiracial subgroups than the rest of the country.  
Non-Caucasian minorities, including large immigrant 
populations from Asian and Pacific Islander nations, 
comprise 74% of the population.7 Although Hawai‘i 
has consistently placed a high value on providing 
accessible, top quality health care for all, health 
disparities between population groups exist. 
Numerous social, economic, and environmental 
factors influence the health of individuals and 
populations. For example, people with a quality 
education, stable employment, safe homes 
and neighborhoods, and access to high-quality, 
preventive health services tend to be healthier 
throughout their lives and live longer. Conversely, 
people with behavioral health disorders, those 
identifying as a sexual and gender minority 
including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer 
and/or questioning (LGBTQ), or persons of low 
socioeconomic status, often face inequitable health 
outcomes. Where you live directly affects your 
health in a number of ways, from the accessibility of 
healthy food, to the availability of green space to be 
physically active, to access to primary health care.8 
In Hawai‘i, life expectancy ranges by zip code from 
73 years to 87 years, a 14 year difference.8 Inequity 
is also found across ethnic and non-English speaking 
communities. The COVID-19 pandemic and climate change are bearing out the disparate vulnerabilities 
across communities in Hawai‘i. The HHSP recognizes 
and prioritizes the importance of addressing health 
equity and priority population groups that are more 
likely to experience poor health outcomes.
People with access to quality 
education, stable employment, 
safe homes and neighborhoods, 
and preventive health services live 
healthier, longer lives.A “one size fits all” approach 
to expanding opportunities 
for improved health is like 
expecting everyone to be 
able to ride the same bike. 
Aiming for “Equity,” rather than 
“Equality,” provides a more 
tailored approach to addressing 
the unique needs of our most 
vulnerable populations.
Advancing Health EquitySocial determinants of 
health are conditions in 
the places where people 
live, learn, work, and play 
that affect a wide range 
of health and quality-of 
life-risks and outcomes.Social Determinants of HealthSocial Determinants of HealthSocial Determinants of Health
NEIGHBORHOOD 
AND BUILT 
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL AND 
COMMUNITY 
CONTEXT
EDUCATION  
ACCESS AND 
QUALITYHEALTH CARE  
AND QUALITY
ECONOMIC 
STABILITY
• Chronic Disease Burden
• Length of Life
• Quality of LifeHEALTH OUTCOMES
ADAPTED FROM THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTIONSocial Determinants of HealthSocial Determinants of Health
NEIGHBORHOOD 
AND BUILT 
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL AND 
COMMUNITY 
CONTEXT
EDUCATION  
ACCESS AND 
QUALITYHEALTH CARE  
AND QUALITY
ECONOMIC 
STABILITY
• Chronic Disease Burden
• Length of Life
• Quality of LifeHEALTH OUTCOMES
ADAPTED FROM THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION
7Achieving Health Equity
Research suggests social determinants of health may be the most important factors in health outcomes 
and health equity. 
To ensure that individuals and communities across the state achieve their full health potential, the 
HHSP addresses social determinants of health domains such as education; health care and quality; and 
neighborhood and built environments. 
The plan also provides insights on population characteristics, disease data and trends, and existing 
health inequities. Communities that are most vulnerable or more likely to experience disparities have 
been identified and prioritized.8Objectives and  
Strategies
The HHSP objectives strive to create sustainable change 
that will transform our communities, schools, health care, 
and worksites to support the health of the people of Hawai‘i. 
Stakeholders developed the HHSP objectives to shape 
policy, systems and environmental change in the four sector 
areas: Community Design and Access; Education; Health 
Care; and Worksite. 
The objectives are showcased by sector area and include 
key strategies, baseline, and target measures. The HHSP is 
meant to be a living document that is reviewed and updated 
throughout the plan’s timeframe. Implementation of the plan 
will be a collective effort by individuals and organizations 
across the state.
 Objectives with this icon are being worked on by  
 multiple program areas.
* Additional background information, including definitions of some terminology used in the 
objectives and strategies, can be found on the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.gov9Community Design and Access  
Sector Objectives  
The Community Design and Access Sector includes places in the 
community where people live and play, such as public spaces (parks, 
community centers, and places of worship), physical infrastructure 
(sidewalks and bike lanes), and retail locations.
GOAL ››  All of Hawai‘i’s people will live in communities that have access 
to tobacco- and nicotine-free settings, healthy food choices, physical activity 
opportunities, evidence-based chronic disease self-management programs, and 
minimal exposure to unhealthy options through policy, programs, communications, 
and environmental supports.
ASTHMA-01 OBJECTIVE
Develop and deliver at least one promotional activity to increase awareness of asthma education 
resources for non-clinical professionals.
STRATEGIES 
• Identify stakeholders to establish a communications workgroup
• Convene communications workgroup regularly to develop messages tailored for targeted audience (e.g., 
coaches and/or caregivers)
• Identify media outlets that will reach targeted audience
• Disseminate messages through promotional activities (e.g., social media messages, posters, brochures, or 
other printed materials) and evaluate messagesBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1 ASTHMA-02 OBJECTIVE
Establish and sustain a funded, statewide Asthma Control Program Coordinator position to address the 
burden of asthma in the State of Hawai‘i.
STRATEGIES
• Provide written support and/or meet with the Director of Health to document the need of a State Asthma 
Control Program
• Provide written support/testimony to legislature to fund the Asthma Control Program Coordinator positionCOMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVES10CANCER-01
CANCER-02
CANCER-03OBJECTIVE
Develop at least one multi-island, small media campaign to promote Hepatitis B virus and Human 
Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccinations to prevent cancer.
STRATEGIES
• Identify stakeholders such as DOH Hepatitis Program and Hawai‘i Comprehensive Cancer Coalition’s 
(HCCC) Vaccine-Preventable Cancer Workgroup to establish a communications workgroup to develop a small 
media campaign
• Identify and secure resources for the campaign
• Evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign
OBJECTIVE
Develop at least one multi-island, small media campaign to increase awareness about each of the 
following topics: cancer as a chronic disease; the importance of family history for cancer; clinical 
trials; palliative care and hospice; prostate cancer; and cancer survivorship and issues faced by cancer 
survivors.
STRATEGIES
• Collaborate with cancer partners like the University of Hawai‘i Cancer Center and Kokua Mau, the Hawai‘i 
Genomics Program, and the HCCC Quality of Life Action Team to establish a communications workgroup to 
develop a small media campaign
• Identify and secure resources to develop the campaign
• Evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign
OBJECTIVE
Develop at least one cancer survivorship and caregiver resource guide that will include  
follow-up care, lifestyle, psychosocial, and financial information.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a working group to develop the cancer survivorship resource guide in partnership with the HCCC 
Quality of Life Action Team
• Evaluate the validity and value of the cancer survivors and caregivers’ resource guide
• Identify and secure resources to develop and update the guideBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2 
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  6
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  111
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVESCANCER-04 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 20%, the proportion of adults who are diagnosed with cancer and participated in a cancer-
related clinical trial.
STRATEGIES
• Address barriers to clinical trial participation and increase promotion of counter messages through outlets 
such as print, broadcast, and web-based media
• Integrate clinical trials into the training curriculum of academic institutions
• Identify and implement strategies to improve efficiency and resources related to clinical trials coordination for 
physicians
• Support access to clinical trials for neighbor island residents diagnosed with cancerBASELINE:  4.80%  TARGET:  5.80%COMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVES
DIABETES-01
DIABETES-02OBJECTIVE
Establish at least one fully recognized National Diabetes Prevention Program site in the State of Hawai‘i 
that provides online or distance learning.
STRATEGIES
• Support new organization(s) with the capacity to deliver the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) virtually or 
via telehealth by facilitating and maintaining access to necessary technology
• Provide technical assistance to organizations in obtaining distance and hybrid National Diabetes Prevention 
Program (NDPP) CDC recognition
• Connect referring organizations to distance learning DPP sites
OBJECTIVE
Establish at least three new American Diabetes Association recognized or Association of Diabetes Care 
and Education Specialists accredited Diabetes Self-Management Education and Support sites.
STRATEGIES
• Support new organizations seeking recognition or accreditation by covering the application fees on a once-in-
a-lifetime basis and providing technical assistance
• Collaborate with American Diabetes Association, Association of Diabetes Care and Education Specialists, and 
local Diabetes Self-Management Education and Support (DSMES) sites to provide training and mentoring to 
new organizationsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
BASELINE:  19  TARGET:  2212HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-01 OBJECTIVE
Develop and deliver at least two promotional activities to increase awareness of the preventability of 
heart disease and stroke.
STRATEGIES
• Identify stakeholders to establish a communications workgroup
• Convene communications workgroup regularly to develop messages tailored for targeted audience
• Identify media outlets that will reach targeted audience
• Disseminate messages through promotional activities (e.g., social media messages, posters, brochures, or 
other printed materials) and evaluate messagesBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-01
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-02
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-03OBJECTIVE
Increase by 50%, the number of food outlets that participate in a statewide healthy food 
incentive program(s).
STRATEGIES
• Secure long-term funding for Hawai‘i’s Double Up Food Bucks program, which matches Supplemental Nutrition 
Assistance Program (SNAP) food stamp dollars spent on Hawai‘i-grown produce
• Implement a statewide Produce Prescription Program, which enables participants to redeem “prescriptions” for 
produce at participating markets and grocery stores
OBJECTIVE
Enact at least two statewide policies to increase access to healthy food and/or decrease access to 
unhealthy food/beverages.
STRATEGIES
• Enact a fee on sugar-sweetened beverages, where revenue is allocated to obesity prevention initiatives
• Establish long-term, state funding for a Double Up Food Bucks SNAP incentive program
OBJECTIVE
Establish and sustain a funded Food Access Coordinator in each county to facilitate an active coalition.
STRATEGIES
• Food access coalitions will create and implement county-level action plans aimed at increasing access to, and 
consumption of, healthy food
• Secure county funding to support the activities of the coordinator and food access coalitionBASELINE:  62  TARGET:  93
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  413
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVESPHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-05
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-06OBJECTIVE
Develop guidelines to promote healthy food donations and purchase of healthy food to be adopted by 
100% of Hawai‘i food banks.
STRATEGIES
• Convene a working group with representation from Hawai‘i’s foodbank network, to develop guidelines for 
healthy food donations
OBJECTIVE
Increase by 50 miles, the total miles of low-stress pedestrian infrastructure including, but not limited to, 
sidewalks and trails.
STRATEGIES
• Incorporate the specifications for “desirable” level of service described in the Hawai‘i Department of 
Transportation’s Pedestrian Toolbox into the development of low-stress pedestrian infrastructure
• Increase Safe Routes to Schools and Safe Routes to Parks programs and projects
• Develop policies to encourage shade tree planting, to increase canopy cover, on high volume pedestrian 
corridors and trails
• Increase share of state and county transportation budgets dedicated to pedestrian infrastructure
• Implement Vision Zero and Complete Streets policies to increase safety and comfort of pedestrian experienceBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  50PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-04 OBJECTIVE
Establish and sustain a funded, statewide Breastfeeding Coordinator to facilitate efforts supportive of 
breastfeeding exclusivity and duration.
STRATEGIES
• Assess statewide resources and capacity to fund and establish state-level breastfeeding coordinator position
• Develop scope and position description to include knowledge of indigenous cultures and breastfeeding 
support needs
• Identify gaps and strategically integrate the breastfeeding coordinator position in a way that bridges 
these gapsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  114PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-07 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 100 miles, the total miles of low-stress bicycle infrastructure including, but not limited to, 
protected bike lanes and off-street paths.
STRATEGIES
• Increase Safe Routes to Schools and Safe Routes to Parks projects
• Develop policies to encourage shade tree planting, to increase canopy cover, on high volume bicycle corridors 
and trails
• Increase share of state and county transportation budgets dedicated to bicycle facilities
• Implement Vision Zero and Complete Streets policies and projects to increase safety and comfort of bicyclist 
experienceBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  100
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-08 OBJECTIVE
The state and each county will identify and adopt mode-share goals and measurements that prioritize 
walking and wheelchairs, bicycling, and transit use.
STRATEGIES
• Develop context-appropriate county-level Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plans to establish 
mode baselines
• Develop more inclusive and comprehensive metrics for measuring active transportation beyond work and 
school commutes
• Support development of community Safe Routes to School (SRTS) plans, funding of SRTS infrastructure, free 
transit for minors, etcBASELINE TARGET
State 0 1
County 0 4
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-09 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 10%, the proportion of existing urbanized land zoned to support walkable communities.
STRATEGIES
• Promote Equitable Transit Oriented Development (ETOD), town centers, mixed-use development, and upzoning 
for new development and zoning updates
• Adopt parking policy reforms to reduce parking oversupply, unbundle residential parking, reduce or eliminate 
parking minimums, and/or shift costs
• Change Level-of-Service to Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) in environmental review of new developmentBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 10%15
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND ACCESS SECTOR OBJECTIVESTOBACCO-01 OBJECTIVE
Enact at least five more county or state policies to decrease access to all tobacco products, including 
electronic smoking devices or other novel, emerging tobacco products.
STRATEGIES
• Establish regulatory parity for cigarettes, electronic smoking devices (ESDs), and emerging products, etc (e.g. 
impose taxes, licensing/permitting/restricting online sales, etc)
• Prohibit the sale of all flavored tobacco products including mentholBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5
TOBACCO-03TOBACCO-02
OBJECTIVE
Establish at least two more county or state policies that eliminate exposure to secondhand smoke.
STRATEGIES
• Enact a smoke-free multi-unit housing ordinance in all four major counties
• Establish policies that increase resources for smoke-free policy enforcement (at parks, beaches, public housing, etc)OBJECTIVE
Establish at least two more statewide policies that increase access to cessation services.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a MedQUEST policy that requires health plans to offer expanded evidence-based cessation service options
• Establish a policy to formally coordinate services between the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline (HTQL), community 
cessation providers, and a private or public insurance provider to promote access to services to consumers
• Establish a policy that requires insurance companies to expand reimbursement for youth cessation
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  216ASTHMA-03Education  
Sector Objectives  
The Education Sector includes places such as public and  
private childcare and aftercare facilities, pre-kindergarten through  
12th grade schools, and higher education.
GOAL ››  All of Hawai‘i’s educational settings will promote tobacco- 
and nicotine-free lifestyles, healthy eating, daily physical activity, and health 
management through programs, policies, environmental supports, and professional 
development opportunities.
OBJECTIVE
Increase by 10%, the number of sites implementing CDC-recommended school- and/or community-based 
Asthma Self-Management Education programs.
STRATEGIES 
• Expand the number of Asthma Self-Management Education (ASME) programs by facilitating partnerships with 
school- and community-based organizations
• Promote ASME programs with the new and existing partnersBASELINE:  7  TARGET:  8
BASELINE:  13  TARGET:  14 ASTHMA-04 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 10%, the number of facilitators delivering CDC-recommended school- and/or community-
based Asthma Self-Management Education.
STRATEGIES
• Expand the number of ASME programs by connecting potential volunteers
• Promote volunteer opportunities with new and existing partners17
EDUCATION SECTOR OBJECTIVESCANCER-05 OBJECTIVE
Increase by five, the number of schools that implement 1 to 2 of the recommended CDC Sun Protection 
Guidelines.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct an assessment of the readiness of one or more schools to implement one or more of the 
recommended CDC Sun Protection Guidelines
• Partner with cancer partners such as the Hawai‘i Skin Cancer Coalition to promote the recommended  
CDC Sun Protection GuidelinesBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 5
CANCER-06 OBJECTIVE
100% of eligible school-based clinics become Vaccines for Children providers.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct an assessment of eligible schools to determine their ability to become Vaccines for Children  
(VFC) providers
• Partner with the HCCC’s Vaccine Preventable Cancers Workgroup to promote the importance of making 
vaccines (e.g., HPV) available BASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  100%
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-02 OBJECTIVE
Adopt a wellness policy designed to provide access to blood pressure cuffs and blood pressure  
education at public college campuses.
STRATEGIES
• Leverage partnerships within the University of Hawai‘i system to identify campus wellness/health  
services coordinator
• Explore potential partnerships and link available resources at American Heart AssociationBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-10 OBJECTIVE
Adopt at least one policy to require annual courses in Health Education and Physical Education from 
grades K-8, in the Department of Education, that are aligned with national recommendations for 
instructional time and teacher licensing.
STRATEGIES
• Support a Board of Education policy change to require annual courses in Health Education in grades K-8 in 
Department of Education (DOE) public non-charter schools
• Support a Board of Education policy change to require annual courses in Physical Education in grades K-8 in 
DOE public non-charter schoolsBASELINE TARGET
Health Education courses 0 1
Physical Education courses 0 118PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-11 OBJECTIVE
Develop a system to monitor and support implementation of the Early Childhood Care and Education 
Wellness Guidelines.
STRATEGIES
• Convene both public and private early learning community stakeholders to determine barriers to 
implementation of Hawai‘i’s Early Childhood Care and Education (ECE) Wellness Guidelines
• Collaborate with ECE stakeholders to create a physical activity and nutrition ECE setting focused training 
curricula developed from the Hawai‘i ECE Wellness Guidelines
• Partner with leaders in the early learning community to identify and implement incentives to support provider 
implementation of the ECE Wellness GuidelinesBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-12
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-13OBJECTIVE
50% of public non-charter schools participating in the Safety and Wellness Survey will meet at  
least 90% of the wellness guidelines.
STRATEGIES
• Create a toolkit to share with all participating public schools that highlights resources for the four lowest 
scoring wellness guidelines
• Create a social media campaign to educate families and community stakeholders on the DOE safety and 
wellness guidelines and opportunities to support wellness in schools
• Conduct a study to evaluate qualities/characteristics/infrastructure/resources that contribute to the schools 
with the lowest Safety and Wellness Survey (SAWS) score and the highest SAWS score
OBJECTIVE
Establish and sustain a funded statewide Food Systems Education Coordinator position to  
support ‘āina-based education, which promotes healthy eating in preschool through grade 12 (P-12)  
education settings.
STRATEGIES
• Assess statewide resources and capacity to fund and establish a statewide Food Systems Education 
Coordinator position
• Develop scope and position description to include knowledge of ‘āina-based education
• Identify gaps and strategically integrate the Food Systems Education Coordinator position in a way that 
bridges these gapsBASELINE:  30%  TARGET:  50%
BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  119
EDUCATION SECTOR OBJECTIVESTOBACCO-05 OBJECTIVE
Develop and adopt at least one “alternative to suspension” model policy for youth vaping or tobacco 
offenses in Department of Education schools.
STRATEGIES
• Develop and adopt best practice enforcement responses/guidelines for youth vaping/tobacco offenses to guide 
law enforcement or Department of Education (DOE) school officials
• Pilot test a model alternative to suspension policy at a public or private school in Hawai‘i and use results to inform 
expansion into other schoolsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
TOBACCO-07 OBJECTIVE
Conduct at least ten more educational campaigns for parents or youth influencers to provide information 
about tobacco/vaping prevention or cessation statewide.
STRATEGIES
• Develop culturally appropriate educational campaigns for use in school systems such as, the Hawaii Association of 
Independent Schools, Charter School Commission, and Hawaii State Department of Education
• Develop education campaigns that can be used in a variety of media types (radio, television, mall ads, social media, etc)BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  10TOBACCO-04 OBJECTIVE
All colleges and universities in the State of Hawai‘i will provide tobacco-free education and offer 
cessation services to their students, staff and faculty.
STRATEGIES
• Provide tobacco prevention and cessation information at incoming student orientation sessions
• Support student health groups to conduct peer-led tobacco cessation and prevention promotion throughout all 
campuses
• Create linkages between community tobacco treatment specialists, the Hawai‘i Tobacco Quitline and universities to 
tailor promotions to students and increase access to cessation services for young adultsBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  All colleges  
and universities  
in Hawai‘i
TOBACCO-06 OBJECTIVE
All colleges and universities in the State of Hawai‘i will have a 100% smoke-free or tobacco-free  
campus policy.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct outreach to universities and colleges without tobacco-free policies to provide education and information 
about the benefits of implementing a tobacco-free campus
• Provide technical support to individual private colleges and universities to encourage adoption of tobacco-free 
campus policiesBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  All colleges  
and universities  
in Hawai‘i20Health Care  
Sector Objectives  
The Health Care Sector includes places such as public and private 
health care delivery sites.
GOAL ››  All of Hawai‘i’s health care systems will promote health equity 
and maximize utilization of prevention, early detection, and evidence-based chronic 
disease self-management services by improving coverage, health information 
technology, programs, practices, and guidelines.
MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS OBJECTIVE
By 2025, identify six Health Information Technology priorities to enhance population health.
STRATEGIES
• Identify key Health Information Technology (HIT) stakeholders to establish a HIT workgroup
• Convene HIT workgroup regularly to identify the HIT priorities to enhance population healthASTHMA-06  •  DIABETES-03  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-06BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  6
MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS OBJECTIVE
Meet 50% of identified Health Information Technology priority goals.
STRATEGIES
• Implement priorities identified by the HIT workgroup (e.g., implement bidirectional referral systems between 
health care organizations and self-management education programs or create a GIS map of chronic disease 
cases to inform targeted health communication and resource utilization)ASTHMA-07  •  DIABETES-04  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-07BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  50%21
HEALTH CARE SECTOR OBJECTIVESOBJECTIVE
By 2025, identify five measurable outcomes indicative of team-based care and 
monitor over time.
STRATEGIES
• Identify key stakeholders to establish a team-based care workgroup
• Convene team-based care workgroup regularly to identify measurable outcomes indicative of  
team-based care
• Report identified outcomes at least annuallyASTHMA-08  •  DIABETES-05  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-03BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5 MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS
ASTHMA-05 OBJECTIVE
Establish coverage of Asthma Self-Management Education programs by Medicaid.
STRATEGIES 
• Identify existing literature/guidance/cost benefit analysis on ASME coverage
• Collaborate with Medicaid and provide guidance on ASME coverage and eligibilityBASELINE:  1  TARGET:  5OBJECTIVE
Improve identified measurable team-based care outcomes by 5%.
STRATEGIES
• Implement priorities identified by the team-based care workgroup (e.g., increase use of pharmacists in 
medication management to increase physical patient panels, increase use of non-physician telehealth for 
Asthma Self-Management (ASME), or increase use of Community Health Workers (CHW) in patient care 
coordination)ASTHMA-09  •  DIABETES-06  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-04BASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 5% MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS22CANCER-09 OBJECTIVE
Increase the proportion of adults receiving lung, breast, cervical, and colorectal cancer  
screenings.
STRATEGIES
• Partner with the Hawai‘i Primary Care Association to increase and implement evidence-based interventions 
(EBI) at FQHCs
• Identify resources and secure funding for implementation
• Evaluate the effectiveness of the implementation of the EBITARGET 
LUNG:  9.5%
BREAST:  97.4%
CERVICAL:  92.6%
COLORECTAL:  84.1%BASELINE 
LUNG:  8.5%
BREAST:  87.0%
CERVICAL:  82.7%
COLORECTAL:  75.1%CANCER-07 OBJECTIVE
Increase by ten, the number of health care systems that use Health Information Technology to address 
Hepatitis B vaccination.
STRATEGIES
• Identify key HIT stakeholders to establish a HIT workgroup
• Convene HIT workgroup regularly to identify the HIT priorities to enhance Hepatitis B vaccination rates
• Assess capacity of partner Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) to track and remind providers about 
Hepatitis B immunization rates
• Compile best practice models to increase immunization rates using HIT at FQHCs
• Identify and secure resources to implement HIT at partner FQHCsBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 10
CANCER-08 OBJECTIVE
Increase by ten, the number of new community pharmacies that implement activities to increase 
Hepatitis B vaccination.
STRATEGIES
• Identify pharmacies that serve communities at risk for Hepatitis B (e.g., Asian and Pacific Islander populations)
• Develop a workplan for increasing patient recruitment and reimbursement
• Identify and secure resources to implement the workplanBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1023
HEALTH CARE SECTOR OBJECTIVESCANCER-11 OBJECTIVE
Increase the proportion of cancer survivors who have received treatment summaries and cancer 
survivorship care plans.
STRATEGIES
• Conduct an assessment of Commission on Cancer accredited cancer programs in the state on their methods of 
providing treatment summaries and cancer survivorship care plans
• Develop a plan in partnership with the HCCC Quality of Life Action Team members to educate cancer survivors 
on the benefits of treatment summaries and cancer survivorship care plans
• Develop a training for health care providers on ways to increase utilization of treatment summaries and cancer 
survivorship care plansTARGET 
TREATMENT SUMMARIES:  49.5%
CANCER SURVIVORSHIP CARE PLANS:  33.1%BASELINE 
TREATMENT SUMMARIES:  43.8%
CANCER SURVIVORSHIP CARE PLANS:  32.1%CANCER-10 OBJECTIVE
Increase the proportion of adults who have an Advance Health Care Directive.
STRATEGIES
• Develop an educational and promotional program that emphasizes the importance of advance care planning 
and having an Advance Health Care Directive
• Provide education to health professionals about the benefits of advance care planning that includes sensitivity 
to culturally diverse patient needs
• Educate employers on the importance of advance care planning, especially Advance Health Care DirectiveBASELINE:  36.7%  TARGET:  41.1%
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-05 OBJECTIVE
Establish coverage for medication therapy management and/or self-measured blood pressure 
monitoring by Medicaid.
STRATEGIES
• Identify and review existing literature/guidance on Medication Therapy Management (MTM) and  
Self-Measured Blood Pressure Monitoring (SMBPM) reimbursement
• Collaborate with Medicaid and provide guidance on reimbursement for MTM and/or SMBPMBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  124PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-16 OBJECTIVE
Establish comprehensive coverage for lactation consultation services and lactation supplies  
by all health insurance companies in the State of Hawai‘i.
STRATEGIES
• Engage lactation consultants and other breastfeeding stakeholders to:
 -Develop reimbursement models for Medicaid and commercial payers
 -Pilot coverage processesBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  6BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  12 PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-15 OBJECTIVE
Implement a Hawai‘i-specific hospital recognition program to incentivize promotion of  
exclusive breastfeeding through adoption of best practices that 100% of maternity care hospitals will 
participate in.
STRATEGIES
• Develop a statewide maternity care hospital recognition program, which sets policies and standards to support 
exclusive breastfeeding
• Convene a Hawai‘i hospital recognition program workgroup to create, administer, and evaluate the programPHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-14 OBJECTIVE
Increase by 5%, the number of people enrolled in nutrition and physical activity programs that  
are offered by health system payers.
STRATEGIES
• Expand coverage for Diabetes Prevention Programs (DPPs), or evidence-based DPP-like programs (e.g., Pili 
‘Ohana Department of Native Hawaiian Health)
• Work with providers, health system payers, and worksites to increase awareness of and referrals to covered 
PAN programs
• Participate in Health Information Technology (HIT) workgroup to discuss potential referral options between 
health care organizations and self-management education programs related to physical activity and nutritionBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 5%25
HEALTH CARE SECTOR OBJECTIVESTOBACCO-09 OBJECTIVE
Integrate brief intervention education into at least five more health professional training programs as 
a graduation requirement, and into at least two health specialty organizations (e.g. American Academy 
of Pediatrics, American College of Surgeons, American Physical Therapy Association) as continuing 
education offerings.
STRATEGIES
• Identify relevant “health professional training programs”—such as pharmacy, nursing, medicine, dental hygiene, 
respiratory therapists, psychology, and other related allied health programs, where brief intervention education can 
be incorporated
• Coordinate brief intervention trainings with the behavioral health and substance use treatment communitiesBASELINE TARGET
Professional training programs Pending 5
Health specialty organizations Pending 2TOBACCO-08 OBJECTIVE
Implement at least five more health systems change policies or projects for tobacco cessation per the 
Clinical Practice Guidelines and Million Hearts Tobacco Cessation Change Package.
STRATEGIES
• Integrate assessment, referral, and treatment interventions for tobacco/nicotine use in routine care in health care 
systems using electronic health records
• Provide staff and clinician education about cessation services to increase referral to treatment after identifying 
patients with tobacco/nicotine addictionBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  526Worksite  
Sector Objectives  
The Worksite Sector includes places such as public and private  
work environments.
GOAL ››  All of Hawai‘i’s worksites will create a culture of wellness 
through supportive programs and policies that promote tobacco-and nicotine-
free workplaces; breastfeeding; healthy food and beverage choices; physical 
activity and active commuter opportunities; health screenings; and early 
detection, risk reduction, and self-management of chronic diseases.
OBJECTIVE
Implement a statewide, comprehensive worksite wellness recognition program that at least  
10 very small-, 15 small-, 10 medium-, and 5 large-employers will participate in.
STRATEGIES
• Identify stakeholders and convene an advisory group to develop a Hawai‘i-specific, evidence-based worksite 
wellness recognition program that includes the following areas:
  •  Asthma •  Heart Disease and Stroke
  •  Cancer •  Physical Activity and Nutrition
  •  Diabetes •  Tobacco 
• Pilot the recognition program with a group of diverse employers and modify the program based on their 
feedback.ASTHMA-11  •  CANCER-13  •  DIABETES-07  •  HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-09
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-19  •  TOBACCO-12
BASELINE:  
very small = 0
small = 0medium = 0
large = 0TARGET:  
very small = 10
small = 15medium = 10
large = 5MULTIPLE PROGRAM AREAS27
WORKSITE SECTOR OBJECTIVESASTHMA-10 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least one statewide policy designed to increase access to evidence-based chronic disease 
prevention and management programs that address asthma at worksites.
STRATEGIES 
• In collaboration with Objective Asthma-11, identify stakeholders to establish an advisory group to  
develop a Hawai‘i-specific worksite wellness recognition program
• Convene workgroup regularly to draft a policyBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
CANCER-12 OBJECTIVE
Increase by five, the number of employer groups that adopt a policy that allows time off for cancer 
screenings.
STRATEGIES
• Assess the employer groups ability to establish a policy that allows time off for cancer screenings
• Partner with selected employer groups to develop a policy
• Implement the policy and evaluate the effectiveness of the policyBASELINE:  Pending  TARGET:  Increase by 5
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE-08 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least one statewide policy designed to increase access to evidence-based chronic disease 
prevention and management programs that address heart disease and stroke at worksites.
STRATEGIES
• In collaboration with Objective Heart Disease and Stroke-09, identify stakeholders to establish an advisory 
group to develop a Hawai‘i-specific worksite wellness recognition program
• Convene workgroup regularly to draft a policyBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-17 BASELINE:  0  TARGET:  2 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least two statewide policies designed to increase physical activity and/or healthy food 
options in government worksites.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a comprehensive worksite physical activity policy
• Establish a policy that requires nutrition standards for worksite vending machines and for meetings/events 
where food is served28TOBACCO-11 OBJECTIVE
At least fifteen more worksites in the State of Hawai‘i will have 100% tobacco-free policies.
STRATEGIES
• Develop and define criteria for 100% tobacco-free worksite campuses
• Develop tobacco-free campus policies for state and county departmentsBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  15PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND NUTRITION-18 OBJECTIVE
Establish at least one statewide policy that supports breastfeeding exclusivity and duration.
STRATEGIES
• Establish a statewide Paid Family Leave policy, which will support mothers’ ability to breastfeed by providing 
leave time for mothers to care for their newborns
• Encourage employers to adopt an Infant at Work policy, which allows employees the option of bringing their 
infants into the workplace and can support exclusive breastfeeding
• Encourage employers to adopt a Work from Home policy, which provides telecommuting options for 
breastfeeding mothersBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  1
TOBACCO-10 OBJECTIVE
At least five more large employers (including the State and Counties) will offer health plans that promote 
tobacco treatment coverage per U.S. Preventive Task Force recommendations.
STRATEGIES
• Engage unions to make changes to provide cessation coverage with no co-pay in insurance plans
• Facilitate employers’ capacity to offer programs or insurance plans that incentivize cessation or offers cessation 
services with no co-payBASELINE:  0  TARGET:  5Healthy People, 
Healthy Communities, 
Healthy Hawai‘i30Please refer to the Healthy Hawai‘i Strategic Plan 2030 (HHSP) for comprehensive details and 
information related to this executive summary: www.HHSP.hawaii.govHHSP icon with pr ogram ar ea icons
ASTHMA
TOBACCO
CANCER
DIABETES
HEARTDISEASEANDSTROKE
PHYSICALACTIVITYANDNUTRITIONADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The HHSP supports and reinforces the following comprehensive, chronic disease prevention and 
management strategic plans for the state:
• Hawai‘i Asthma Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Cancer Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Diabetes Plan 2030• Hawai‘i Heart Disease and Stroke Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Plan 2030
• Hawai‘i Tobacco Prevention and Control Plan 2030IMPLEMENTATION
Continued coordination and active stakeholder engagement are needed to achieve the HHSP objectives 
by 2030. Program area stakeholder groups continue to meet regularly to implement the plan’s objectives 
and strategies, and to monitor and evaluate progress. The HHSP is meant to be a dynamic document that 
is assessed and updated throughout the plan’s timeframe. Stakeholder group membership is expected to 
change to assure an inclusive, community-based participatory approach to realize the plan’s goals. 31REFERENCES
1 Hawai‘i State Department of Health, Hawai‘i Health Data Warehouse. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. (2019). 
http://hhdw.org Accessed on February 12, 2021.
2 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National Center for Health Statistics—Stats of the State of Hawai‘i.  
https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/pressroom/states/hawaii/hawaii.htm. Accessed May 21, 2021.
3 Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease. What is the Impact of Chronic Disease on Hawaii?  
https://www.fightchronicdisease.org/sites/default/files/download/PFCD_HI_FactSheet_FINAL1.pdf . Accessed May 21, 2021.
4 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Annual Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Years of Potential Life Lost, and 
Economic Costs—United States, 1995-1999. MMWR. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 51(14), 300-3.  
https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm5114a2.htm . Accessed May 21, 2021.
5 Mokdad, A.H., Marks, J. S., Stroup, D.F., & Gerberding, J.L. (2004). Actual Causes of Death in the United States, 2000. JAMA, 
291(10), 1238–1245. https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.291.10.1238
6 Torres, K. Y. (2010). Chronic Disease Epidemiology and Control, 3rd Edition. Preventing Chronic Disease, 8(1), Article 1. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3044036/
7 U.S. Census Bureau (2020). Hawaii population characteristics 2019. Retrieved from  
https://census.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Hawaii-Population-Characteristics-2019.pdf
8 Holmes, J.H., Tootoo, J.L., Chosy, J.E., Bowie, A.Y., Starr, R.R. Examining Variation in Life Expectancy Estimates by ZIP Code 
Tabulation Area (ZCTA) in Hawaii’s Four Main Counties, 2008-2012. Preventing Chronic Disease Public Health Research, 
Practice, and Policy  15(E114), 1-3.David Ige, Governor of Hawai‘i
Elizabeth A. Char, M.D., Director of Health
For more information contact:
Hawai‘i State Department of Health
Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Division
1250 Punchbowl St. Room 422
Honolulu, Hawai‘i 96813
PHONE: (808) 586-4488
The HHSP can be accessed, downloaded, and interacted with  
at the following website: www.HHSP.hawaii.gov
Non Discrimination in Services
We provide access to our programs and activities without  
regard to race, color, national origin, language, age, sex, religion, or disability.  
Write or call the Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Division  
or our Affirmative Action Officer at P .O. Box 3378, Honolulu Hawai‘i 96801-3378  
or (808) 586-4110 (voice/TTY) within 180 days of a discrimination incident.
Date of Publication: June 2021  •  Date of Printing: June 2021
