Source URL: https://hidot.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Department of Transportation Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii Department of Transportation Ka ʻOihana Alakau Search this site Search X icon RSS icon Facebook icon Youtube icon Home Airports Harbors Highways Administration About Us Airports Harbors Highways Administration FAQs Airports Harbors Highways Hawaii electric bike and moped rebate Administration Visitor Airports Harbors Highways Library Airports Harbors Highways Admin Rules Reports Publications Presentations Doing Business Airports Harbors Highways Trucking Contracts Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBE) Statewide Transportation Planning Land Matters Meetings Boards & Commissions Property for Sale Weather Related Traffic Alerts Roadwork Hawaii State ID Card HDOT Jobs Contact Aloha from HDOT! The Hawaii Department of Transportation is responsible to plan, design, construct, operate, and maintain State facilities in all modes of transportation, including air, water, and land. Coordination with other State, County, and Federal programs is maintained in order to achieve these objectives. MISSION STATEMENT To provide a safe, efficient, accessible, and sustainable inter-modal transportation system that ensures the mobility of people and goods, and enhances and/or preserves economic prosperity and the quality of life. CURRENT SPOTLIGHTS HDOT Notices Click on this link to sign up for emails from HDOT on roadwork and public notices for Airports, Harbors, and Highways. HDOT Highways Project Status Map View all state highways program data including current & future projects scheduled to begin in the next two years. Available data also includes Average Annual Daily Traffic counts and pavement conditions for state routes. Statewide Traffic Fatalities HDOT is including the year-to-date traffic fatality figures by county on our Safe Communities page to raise awareness. The webpage will be updated weekly. Community Presentations HDOT’s presentations from recent community meetings statewide are now available. Click on the link above to see what projects are planned in your area. Hawaii’s Legal Presence Law ( Driver’s License , State ID ) Legal presence requirements affect anyone applying for a Hawaii driver’s license or State ID, including U.S. citizens and foreign-born applicants, those applying for a learner’s permit, and permit holders passing their road test to obtain a driver’s license. Legal presence also applies to anyone who has just moved to Hawaii from another state or country, and anyone renewing their Hawaii driver’s license or permit. Need help in another language? For 廣東話/广东话 , 國語/普通话 , Kapasen Chuuk , ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi , Ilokano , 日本語 , 한국어 , Kajin M̧ajeļ , Gagana Samoa , Español , Tagalog , ภาษาไทย , Tiếng Việt , Visayan go here . What’s New Intermittent full closure of Kūhiō Highway at Waikoko hairpin turn beginning Tuesday, Nov. 12 Road closures at Nāwiliwili Harbor Nov. 12-20 Pali Highway on-ramp to the H-1 eastbound to close early Saturday, Nov. 9 Lanes closed at the Nāpilihau Street and Honoapiʻilani Highway intersection for nighttime work Nightly closures of Hālawa/ H-3 Freeway off-ramps from Moanalua Freeway, week of Nov. 12 Lanes closed at Kaʻahumanu Avenue and Papa Avenue intersection for nighttime work Full closure of two eastbound ramps, in Hālawa and Pearl City, evening of Wednesday, Nov. 6 Portion of Honoapiʻilani Highway to be closed in Waikapū for sewer line work Road closures at Nāwiliwili Harbor Nov. 4-20 Intermittent full closures of Kūhiō Highway at Waikoko Hairpin Turn beginning Monday, Nov. 4 Read More Entries from News About Us Contact Us Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy GoAkamai Traffic Info Want to check the traffic before you leave home or work? Use GoAkamai.org to see the current conditions on Oahu's freeways and highways. Now available for iOS and Android devices. Read More GoAkamai Traffic Info Storm Water Management Our Storm Water Management Plan aims to mitigate degraded stormwater runoff quality that may be caused by industrial activities at our state airport, harbor and highway facilities. Click here to find out how. Read More Storm Water Management HDOT Moves Podcast HDOT Moves is a podcast about the systems moving and connecting our island communities. It will feature discussions on topics relating to transportation in Hawaii and will be uploaded on a monthly basis. Read More HDOT Moves Podcast Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
