Source URL: https://hmoab.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hoisting Machine Operators Advisory Board Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory Hoisting Machine Operators Advisory Board Search this site Search button Home About Us About Us Mission, History & Governance About the Board Meet the Board Members Board Meetings Board Meeting Minutes Annual Reports Operator Resources Apply For or Renew Your Certification Medical Required National Certification Training Resources FAQs News Contact Us Certified Operators Accessibility Who We Are The Hawaiʻi Hoisting Machine Operators Advisory Board is charged with establishing minimum standards to assure construction tower and crane operators across the islands operate hoisting machines in a safe and lawful manner on behalf of the citizens of our State. (Sixteen other states and six municipalities have similar requirements). To be eligible, each operator (whether an independent contractor, a State government worker, or private company hire) must be certified annually and pass criminal, medical and practical training requirements to legally work in Hawaiʻi. All hoisting operators must be at least 21 years of age and need certification if they work with machinery having a lifting capacity of one ton or more. Certification ensures a minimum competency level of operators, assures employers potential employees comply with relevant State and federal standards, and provides safeguards for the public that hoisting operations use best available practices. Enforcement is provided by the Hawaiʻi Occupational Safety and Health Division of the Department of Labor and Industrial Relations. Apply For or Renew Your Certification Submit your application online 1. Fill out application and attach required documents. 2. Make payment via credit card or e-check. 3. If approved, your certification card will be mailed promptly. Interested in Becoming an Operator? News and Announcements OSHA Calls for Limited Flexibility During COVID-19 Pandemic Posted on June 8, 2020 in News On April 16, 2020, OSHA issued a memorandum calling for discretion in enforcement of certain standards during the COVID-19 Pandemic, including those for crane operators. Guidance in this memo is “intended to be time-limited to the current public health crisis” and suggests consulting OSHA’s webpage for updates. Read the full memo here. Read More OSHA Calls for Limited Flexibility During COVID-19 Pandemic HMOAB Office is Temporarily Closed Due to the COVID-19 Pandemic Posted on March 18, 2020 in News The HMOAB office is temporarily closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During this period, we are only able to check email and voicemail infrequently. We apologize for this inconvenience and urge everyone to follow the state government directives to contain this pandemic. Mahalo. Read More HMOAB Office is Temporarily Closed Due to the COVID-19 Pandemic Read More Entries from News View All News List of Current Certified Operators View Operators Get Involved and Informed Currently, HMOAB operates with a five-member Advisory Board, appointed by the Governor and approved by the Legislature. Each serves a staggered four-year term representing various aspects of the industry, from organized labor to construction management firms, and different geographic regions. The Board meets in open session each month in room 114 of the Princess Ruth Ke’elikolani Building at 830 Punchbowl Street on the third Wednesday of each month at 1:30 p.m. Administrative business for the agency is completed by a part-time Executive Assistant, who serves at the direction of the Board. Mission, History and Governance In order to provide public and worker safety, the Hawaiʻi Legislature created the Hoisting Machine Operators Advisory Board (HMOAB) in 1998. Find out more about our administrative rules and operating laws below. Learn More Contact Us The HMOAB office is temporarily closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During this period, we are only able to check email and voicemail infrequently. We apologize for this inconvenience and urge everyone to follow the state government directives to contain this pandemic. Mahalo. Tracy Takano Executive Assistant Phone: (808) 586-8146 Email: [email protected] HOURS The HMOAB office is staffed part-time. We are usually in the office Mondays from 10 AM to 1 PM and on Wednesdays and Fridays from 8:30 AM to 12 noon. If we are not in, please leave a message and we will get back to you as soon as possible. You can also make an appointment if you want to apply for your certification in person HMOAB Address 830 Punchbowl Street, Room 114 Honolulu, HI 96813 POLICIES Terms of Use Privacy Policy Website Accessibility Equal Opportunity Program REPORTS Annual Reports (808) 586-8146 contact email Equal Opportunity Employer/Program Auxiliary aids and services are available upon request to individuals with disabilities. TDD/TTY Dial 711 then ask for (808) 586-8866. Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
