Source URL: https://kamehamehaday.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
King Kamehameha Celebration Commission | State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Home About Resources Grants News Events Arts Education Programs Programs for Organizations Programs for Artists & Presenters Art in Public Places Program Capitol Modern Menu Home About Resources Grants News Events Arts Education Programs Programs for Organizations Programs for Artists & Presenters Art in Public Places Program Capitol Modern Home About Resources Grants News Events Menu Home About Resources Grants News Events Arts Education Organizations Artists & Presenters Art in Public Places Capitol Modern Menu Arts Education Organizations Artists & Presenters Art in Public Places Capitol Modern Home About Resources Grants News Events Menu Home About Resources Grants News Events Arts Education Organizations Artists & Presenters Art in Public Places Capitol Modern Menu Arts Education Organizations Artists & Presenters Art in Public Places Capitol Modern King Kamehameha Celebration Commission Youth from the Papākolea Community Association conducting the King Kamehameha Lei Draping at the 2024 celebration (Honolulu) King Kamehameha I Day Celebrations 2025 Theme: E Hoʻomau June 11, 2025 King Kamehameha Day Parade (Oʻahu) Saturday, June 14, 2025 Lei Draping (Oʻahu) Friday, June 13, 2025 King Kamehameha Celebration Floral Parade (Kauaʻi) Saturday, June 14, 2025 On December 22, 1871, King Kamehameha V proclaimed a national holiday to honor and celebrate his grandfather and the father of the Hawaiian Kingdom. Originally, the people of Hawai‘i wanted to mark the legacy of Lot Kapūaiwa (Kamehameha V) on his birthday, December 11. Being the humble chief that he was, he opted to honor his grandfather instead and pushed the holiday as far away from his (Lot’s) birthday as possible, hence the arbitrary date of June 11. Thus, June 11, 1872, was the very first Kamehameha Day holiday ever celebrated. 2025 King Kamehameha Day Events Please note that dates, times, and locations are subject to change. Kauaʻi King Kamehameha Celebration Floral Parade , June 14, 2025, 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Starts at Vidihna Stadium up Rice Street to the Historic County Building. King Kamehameha Celebration Hoʻolaulea (Līhuʻe) , June 14, 2025, 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Historic County Building Lawn Molokaʻi to be announced Hawaiʻi Island to be announced Maui Nā King Kamehameha Commemorative Pāʻū Parade (Wailuku) , June 21, 2025, 9:45 a.m. Nā King Kamehameha Commemorative Hoʻolaulea (Wailuku) , June 21, 2025, 9:00 a.m. Oʻahu King Kamehameha Statue Lei Draping (Honolulu) , Aliʻiōlani Hale, June 13, 2:30 – 5:00 p.m. Read the lei draping protocol below, or download the lei draping protocol information: 2024 KKCC Oʻahu Lei Draping Ceremony (PDF) . 108th King Kamehameha Celebration Floral Parade (Honolulu) , ʻIolani Palace to Kapiʻolani Park, June 14, 9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. King Kamehameha Celebration Hoʻolauleʻa (Honolulu) , Queen Kapiʻolani Park, June 14, 11:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. King Kamehameha I tribute at the statue of Kamehameha I , Aliʻiōlani Hale, June 11, 9:00 – 9:30 a.m. Sponsored by the Daughters and Sons of the Hawaiian Warriors-MĀMAKAKAUA. Applications and Release Forms 108th Oʻahu King Kamehameha Celebration Floral Parade Unit Application (JotForm) 2025 Liability Release Form for Minors Participating in the Oʻahu King Kamehameha Celebration Floral Parade (JotForm) 2025 Adult Liability Release Form Required for Participation in the Oʻahu King Kamehameha Celebration Floral Parade (JotForm) 108th Oʻahu King Kamehameha Celebration Floral Parade Mōʻī Application (JotForm) 2025 Oʻahu Hoʻolauleʻa Vendor Application (JotForm) 2025 Pāʻū Applications: please contact Beverly Lee at [email protected] . Protocol for Oʻahu Lei Draping Ceremony 2024 Protocol based on the guidance and pursuant to Hawaiʻi Revised Statute 8-5. Subject to change at the discretion of the King Kamehameha Celebration Commission. 2024 King Kamehameha Celebration Commission General Public Information for Oʻahu Lei Draping Ceremony: All Lei to be closed (tied) and approximately 30 feet in length when measured open, but no shorter than 20 feet. Lei in kui pololei or kui poepoe method to be placed on the right arm of the statue. Lei fashioned in the wili, wili poepoe, hili, haku, hīpuʻu or humu papa methods may be draped at the base of the statue or placed on the left arm of the statue. Please keep weight to under 20 pounds if possible. Only natural, biodegradable plant materials to be used, thread, string, nuts, and seeds are allowed. Upon arrival, please register at Check-In Tent next to the parking lot near the statue for further direction. Lei will be presented in the order below. For any group not listed below, your lei will be presented in the order of time stamp on online registration or time of check in at the Check-In Table on the day of the event with the final order at the discretion of the King Kamehameha Celebration Commission. Please label lei so the emcee can make the necessary acknowledgements. Label to include name of organization, short description (50 words or less) of the organization, description of lei materials, lei making method, any other significant information that might be notable. Name(s) of presenter(s) and title(s) should also be included. Also, note whether your group would like to present lei at the statue, oli or hoʻokupu. Lei may be delivered in advance to be presented by group/organization to the designated receiver at the Check-in Tent and logged, it is then placed on the lawn, after 2:00 p.m. the lei draping order will be designated and then draped. Lei will be grouped and draped at the discretion of the KKCC appointee(s). Those wishing to give oli or hoʻokupu please note that floral arrangements and bouquets are welcome however lei are preferred, but no food items, liquids (libations), rocks, crystals, or candles please. Pūʻolo lāʻī (tī leaf wrapped bundles) will not be accepted as hoʻokupu in itself. It is permissible to have lei kept inside but the lei/floral tribute must be removed from them prior to its contents’ presentation at the statue. The remnants of the pūʻolo lāʻī must be taken with presenter(s) and not left at the statue. RSVP by Monday, June 3, 2024, prior to the Lei Draping Ceremony via the following link: forms.gle/Un5Jzvkv6BYVyzAm6 . A confirmation email will be provided to confirm receipt of your requested reservation. Timeline 2:30 pm: Royal Hawaiian Band Performs 3:00 pm: Welcome by Emcees and formal Lei Draping Ceremony to begin with Pule and Oli Hawaiian Benevolent Societies Royal Order of Kamehameha I ʻAhahui Kaʻahumanu Hale O Nā Ali’i O Hawaiʻi Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua Daughters of Hawai‘i Ali‘i Trusts Kamehameha Schools Lunalilo Home Lili‘uokalani Trust Queen’s Health System Governmental Entities Hawai‘i Congressional delegates Governor, State of Hawai‘i State Departments – Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority (HTA), Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA), Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL), etc. Judiciary Hawai‘i State Legislators Mayor, City & County of Honolulu Mayors from other Hawai‘i counties Elected officials must be present, no proxies FestPAC Delegation 4:30 p.m.:Hālau Mōhala ‘Ilima on the mound (Approximately) Parade Representatives Mōʻī Grand Marshal Pāʻū Event Sponsors Kilohana by Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement KKCC Organizations Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association Kapahulu Music Club Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association Papakōlea Community Association Island Commissioners General Public All others at the discretion of the King Kamehameha Celebration Commission, time allowing based on the order received day of the event. Closing protocol Removal of lei and other items Please note, removal of lei, hoʻokupu or other items presented during the Lei Draping Ceremony will officially take place between 6 a.m. – 10 a.m. on the following Monday morning. Removal is based on availability of the State of Hawaiʻi Department of Accounting and General Services grounds crew. The crew will remove and dispose of all lei, hoʻokupu and any other objects that are not original to the statue or surrounding grounds. This removal will be done utilizing standard grounds keeping practices and policies in accordance with the general maintenance of the area. Anyone wishing to retrieve floral arrangements, containers or hoʻokupu that they or their organization specifically may have contributed during the Lei Draping Ceremony may do so in advance of this planned removal. We do not permit the removal of 30’ lei hung on the statue as it may result in damage to the statue. In most cases the plant material and lei will have withered because of the direct sunlight. Those wishing to retrieve their property should plan accordingly and dispose at their discretion. Any items that remain at 6 a.m. will be disposed of as described above. Resources 150th Anniversary King Kamehameha Day Celebration Tabloids Hawaiʻi Island (Kona/Kohala), Hawaiʻi Tribune Herald King Kamehameha 150th Anniversary Celebration Hawaiʻi Island (Hilo), West Hawaiʻi Today King Kamehameha 150th Anniversary Celebration Kauaʻi, The Garden Island King Kamehameha 150th Anniversary Celebration Oʻahu, Honolulu Star-Advertiser King Kamehameha 150th Anniversary Celebration Videos King Kamehameha: A Legacy Renewed In Kohala, Hawai`i, the bronze sculpture of Kamehameha has been painted in life-like colors for as long as anyone can remember. How will the community react when a stranger arrives to conserve the cherished public monument and restore it to its original gold leaf and bronze patina finish? View on Kahilu.TV 2021 Videos: Hawaiʻi News Coverage Suggested Reading He Moʻolelo Kaʻao No Kekūhaupiʻo Ke Koa Kaulana o ke Au o Kamehameha ka Nui (Hawaiian version), Stephen Langhern Desha, Lōkahi Antonio, Brooke Parker / Kamehameha and his Warrior, Kekūhaupiʻo (English version), Stephen L. Desha Kamehameha: The Rise of a King by David Eyre – Juvenile King Kamehameha The Great: Warrior King of the Hawaiian Islands by Leilani Makua Kamehameha: The Warrior King of Hawaii by Susan Keyes Morris Kamehameha: Destiny Fulfilled by Allan Seidan Kamehameha the Great by Julie Stewart Williams Kamehameha: The Boy Who Became a Warrior King by Ellie Crowe and Don Robinson Kohala Kuamoʻo: Naeʻoleʻs Race to Save a King by Kekauleleanaeʻole Kawaiʻaeʻa and Aaron Kawaiʻaeʻa ʻO Kamehameha Nui (Hawaiian version), Julie Stewart Williams, illustrated by Robin Yoko Burningham / Kamehameha the Great (English version) Julie Stewart Williams, illustrated by Robin Yoko Burningham Commissioners Royal Order of Kamehameha I : Kainoa Daines, Chair ‘Ahahui Ka‘ahumanu : Louise Alina Hale O Nā Ali‘i : Ian Custino, Vice Chair Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua : Puakeʻala Mann Daughters of Hawai’i : Kehaulani Keanaʻaina Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs : Beverly Lee (pending) Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association : Jame Schaedel Kapahulu Music Club : Kimo Keaulana Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes Association : Leilani Kahoano Papakōlea Community Association : vacant Island of Hawaiʻi : Keke Kaniho (pending) Island of Maui : Moani Whittle-Wagner Island of Kauaʻi : Kalei Hoffman Island of Molokaʻi : Leināʻala Lopez (pending) Island of Lānaʻi : Pamela Alconel (pending) Meeting Agendas and Minutes Date Meeting Minutes Meeting Recordings 2/13/2023 KKCC_02-13-2023 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 2/2023 meeting 1/10/2023 KKCC 1-10-2023 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 1/2023 meeting 12/13/2022 KKCC 12-13-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 10/11/2022 KKCC 10-11-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 9/13/2022 KKCC 09-13-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 8/9/2022 KKCC 08-09-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 7/12/2022 KKCC 07-12-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 6/7/2022 KKCC 06-07-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 4/12/2022 KKCC 04-12-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 3/8/2022 KKCC 03-08-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 3/2022 meeting 2/8/2022 KKCC 02-08-2022 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 2/2022 meeting 1/11/2022 KKCC 1.11.22 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 12/14/2021 KKCC 12.14.21 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 11/9/2021 KKCC 11.9.21 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 10/12/2021 KKCC 10.12.21 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 9/14/2021 KKCC 09-14-21 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 8/10/2021 KKCC 08-10-21 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 7/13/2021 KKCC 07-13-21 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 6/8/2021 KKCC 06-08-2021 Meeting Minutes (PDF) 3/14/23 KKCC 03-14-2023 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 3/2023 meeting 04/11/2023 KKCC 04-11-2023 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 4/2023 meeting 5/9/2023 KKCC 05-09-2023 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 5/2023 meeting 6/6/2023 KKCC 06-06-2023 Meeting Minutes (Word) Video: KKCC 6/2023 meeting 7/11/2023 KKCC 07-11-2023 Meeting Minutes (Word) Video: KKCC 7/2023 Meeting 9/12/23 KKCC 09-12-2023 Meeting Minutes (Word) Video: KKCC 9/2023 Meeting 11/14/2023 KKCC 11-14-2023 Meeting Minutes (Word) Video: KKCC 11/2023 Meeting 01/19/2024 KKCC 01-19-2024 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 01/2024 Meeting 02/13/2024 2-14-24 KKCC Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 02/2024 Meeting 08/2023 no meeting no meeting 12/2023 no meeting no meeting 3/12/2024 3-12-24 KKCC Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 3/2024 meeting 4/9/2024 04-09-24 KKCC Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 4/2024 meeting 06/04/2024 06-04-2024 KKCC Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 6/2024 Meeting 7/9/2024 07-09-2024 KKCC Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 7/2024 Meeting 8/2024 08-13-2024 KKCC Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC Meeting 8/2024 5/14/2024 KKCC 05-14-2024 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 5/2024 Meeting 9/10/2024 KKCC 09-10-2024 Meeting Minutes (PDF) Video: KKCC 9/10/2024 Meeting 10/08/2024 Video: KKCC 10/2024 Meeting Film Permit Information and Application Per HRS 8-5, “The commission is authorized to determine to whom and for which occasions permission is to be granted for the use of the statue of King Kamehameha I.” Hawai’i Revised Statute 8-5: Capitol.Hawaii.gov/HRScurrent/Vol01_Ch0001-0042F/HRS0008/HRS_0008-0005 For more information: HawaiiFilmOffice.com/Film-Permitting/Film-Permit-Application Social Media Instagram: @KingKamehamehaCelebration Facebook: @KingKamehamehaCelebration Contact King Kamehameha Celebration Commission 355 North King Street Honolulu, HI 96817 Telephone: (808) 586-0333 Email: [email protected] Sponsors Support provided by the Hawai‘i Tourism Authority through the Community Enrichment Program. About the SFCA Hawaiʻi’s state government arts agency since 1967. The SFCA is administratively attached to the Department of Accounting and General Services. SFCA funding is provided by the State of Hawaiʻi and the National Endowment for the Arts . Capitol Modern Capitol Modern Website Rent the Museum Follow Us on Social Media @hawaii_sfca on Twitter @hawaii_sfca on Instagram @hawaiisfca on Facebook Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright © 2020 State Foundation on Culture and the Arts. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/KKCC-2024-Oahu-Lei-Draping-Ceremony-Protocol-for-the-Public_05-31-2024.pdf) ---
2024 Protocol based on the guidance of and pursuant to Hawaiʻi Revised Statute 8-5.   The above is subject to change at the discretion of the King Kamehameha Celebration Commission.  Phone: (808) 586-0333/(808) 223-6040 | Email: kkcc@hawaii.gov  Updated: 5.30.24 
   2024 KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION COMMISSION General Public Information for Oʻahu Lei Draping Ceremony Ali‘iōlani Hale, 417 S. King St, Honolulu, HI 96813  Friday, June 7, 2024   • All Lei to be closed (tied) and approximately 30 feet in length when measured open, but no shorter than 20 feet.    • Lei in kui pololei or kui poepoe method to be placed on the right arm of the statue.  • Lei fashioned in the wili, wili poepoe, hili, haku, hīpu’u or humu papa methods may be draped at the base of the statue or placed on the left arm of the statue.   • Please keep weight to under 20 pounds if possible.  • Only natural, biodegradable plant materials to be used, thread, string, nuts, and seeds are allowed.  • Upon arrival, please register at Check-In Tent next to the parking lot near the statue for further direction.   • Lei will be presented in the order below. For any group not listed below, your lei will be presented in the order of time stamp on online registration or time of check in at the Check-In Table on the day of the event with the final order at the discretion of the King Kamehameha Celebration Commission.  • Please label lei so the emcee can make the necessary acknowledgements.  Label to include name of organization, short description (50 words or less) of the organization, description of lei materials, lei making method, any other significant information that might be notable. Name(s) of presenter(s) and title(s) should also be included. Also, note whether your group would like to present lei at the statue, oli or hoʻokupu.   • Lei may be delivered in advance to be presented by group/organization to the designated receiver at the Check-in Tent and logged, it is then placed on the lawn, after 2:00 p.m. the lei draping order will be designated and then draped. . • Lei will be grouped and draped at the discretion of the KKCC appointee(s).     
2024 Protocol based on the guidance of and pursuant to Hawaiʻi Revised Statute 8-5.   The above is subject to change at the discretion of the King Kamehameha Celebration Commission.  Phone: (808) 586-0333/(808) 223-6040 | Email: kkcc@hawaii.gov  Updated: 5.30.24 • Those wishing to give oli or hoʻokupu please note that floral arrangements and bouquets are welcome however lei are preferred, but no food items, liquids (libations), rocks, crystals, or candles please.  • Pūʻolo lāʻī (tī leaf wrapped bundles) will not be accepted as hoʻokupu in itself. It is permissible to have lei kept inside but the lei/floral tribute must be removed from them prior to its contents’ presentation at the statue. The remnants of the pūʻolo lāʻī must be taken with presenter(s) and not left at the statue.  • RSVP by Monday, June 3, 2024, prior to the Lei Draping Ceremony via the following link.   https://forms.gle/Un5Jzvkv6BYVyzAm6     A confirmation email will be provided to confirm receipt of your requested reservation.      Timeline   2:30 pm  Royal Hawaiian Band Performs  3:00 pm  Welcome by Emcees and formal Lei Draping Ceremony to begin: Pule and Oli   Hawaiian Benevolent Societies • Royal Order of Kamehameha I • ʻAhahui Kaʻahumanu • Hale O Nā Ali’i O Hawaiʻi • Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua • Daughters of Hawai‘i  Ali‘i Trusts • Kamehameha Schools • Lunalilo Home • Lili‘uokalani Trust • Queen’s Health System  Governmental Entities • Hawai‘i Congressional delegates • Governor, State of Hawai‘i o State Departments – HTA, OHA, DHHL, etc. • Judiciary • Hawai‘i State Legislators • Mayor, City & County of Honolulu • Mayors from other Hawai‘i counties *Elected officials must be present, no proxies FestPAC Delegation    
2024 Protocol based on the guidance of and pursuant to Hawaiʻi Revised Statute 8-5.   The above is subject to change at the discretion of the King Kamehameha Celebration Commission.  Phone: (808) 586-0333/(808) 223-6040 | Email: kkcc@hawaii.gov  Updated: 5.30.24  4:30 p.m.   Hālau Mōhala ‘Ilima on the mound (Approximately)  Parade Representatives • Mōʻī • Grand Marshal • Pāʻū Event Sponsors  • Kilohana by Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement KKCC Organizations • Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs • Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association • Kapahulu Music Club • Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association • Papakōlea Community Association • Island Commissioners  General Public All others at the discretion of the King Kamehameha Celebration Commission, time allowing based on the order received day of the event.   Closing protocol   *Please note, removal of lei, hoʻokupu or other items presented during the Lei Draping Ceremony will officially take place between 6 a.m. - 10 a.m. on the following Monday morning.  Removal is based on availability of the State of Hawaiʻi Department of Accounting and General Services grounds crew.  The crew will remove and dispose of all lei, hoʻokupu and any other objects that are not original to the statue or surrounding grounds.  This removal will be done utilizing standard grounds keeping practices and policies in accordance with the general maintenance of the area.  Anyone wishing to retrieve floral arrangements, containers or hoʻokupu that they or their organization specifically may have contributed during the Lei Draping Ceremony may do so in advance of this planned removal.  We do not permit the removal of 30’ lei hung on the statue as it may result in damage to the statue.  In most cases the plant material and lei will have withered because of the direct sunlight. Those wishing to retrieve their property should plan accordingly and dispose at their discretion.  Any items that remain at 6 a.m. will be disposed of as described above.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/02-13-23-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:   Tuesday, February  13, 2023 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
   
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal Order of Kamehameha),  Moanike‘ala 
Whittle -Wagner  (Island of Maui ), Napu’unoa Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools Alumni 
Associat ion), Desiree Moana Cruz (Island of Hawai‘i),  Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Kaʻ ahumanu) ,  
Kimo  Alama  Keaulana  (Kapahulu Music Club), Kēhau Pe ‘a (Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs),  
Kehaulani Keana ‘aina  (Daughters of Hawai‘ i), Puake‘ ala Mann  (Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian 
Warriors, Māmakakaua)  
  
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair) , Leinaala Bishaw  (Island of Molokaʻi 
Volunteer/Commission Candidate) , Beverly Lee, (Equestrian Chair),  Leilani Kahoano , (Waim ānalo  
Hawaiian Homestead Association /Commission Candidate ) 
  
I. Call to Order, establish quorum  -- Meeting called to order at 6: 10 p.m. by  Chair Kainoa 
Daines.   The meeting minute s were approval for August, September, October,  and December , 
January . No public was present to provide testimony. 
a. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy Hammond)  -- Completed  the regularly required 
DAGS  administrative duties .  Attended legislative hearings for WAM AND FIN with 
DAGS and met the new Comptroller, Keith Regan. Followed up on our Commission status 
for the Ethics Training and confirmed that everyone has completed the training.  
Distributed all of the Oath of Office Certificates  and will notify everyone when we need 
the letters of support prior to the confirmation hearing dates.  Wor king closely with Clint 
Kalaola to submit and secure our permitting for the street closure and Kapiʻolani Park. 
Amy advised that the State has implemented a 9% restriction on budgets and that because 
her salary is our only budget item these funds would nee d to come from her pay.  
Therefore, she will submit a letter to DAGS requesting the restriction be exempt for the 
KKCC budget. 
II. KKCC Business  
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing to re port. 
i. 2023 Statewide Theme  -- Theme was selected, mahalo to Kimo  for his suggestion .  
The 2023 t heme is E  ala e nā kini o ka  ʻāina!  (Arise  all people  of the land!) . Kainoa  
encouraged  the use of the theme  for all  islands  if possible. 
b. Financial Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Amy reported that we have a zero balance and updated 
are still awaiting $50,000 from the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts for the 2023 
Lei Draping .   
c. Fundraising Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.   
d. Committee  Repo rts 
i. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Amy reported that we will keep an eye on a bill for 
consideration regarding Commission term limits.  
ii. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Kimo reported that he has some newspaper  
articles from 1883 which describe the unveiling of the statue in Honolulu and 
Kohala.  He will scan and share with us as they are very detailed including those in 
attendance and attire.  He also has some information on the King Kamehameha 
holiday in the early 1900’s.  
iii. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and Kehaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau said mahalo to 
Kēhau  Leilani Kahoano for joining us at the meeting  and expressed that she was 
hopeful there will be some response from the new leadership from Waimānalo  
Homestead Association prior to our next meeting.  In addition, she noted that 
Leinaʻala has filled out her paperwork and she should be in the process of 
confirmation. Commissioners who need to apply for second term s expiring in June 
include Puake ʻala, Kimo and Moani.  Hopefully they will continue with the second 
term.  K ēhau noted she will get her Oath of Office notarized and returned.  Desiree 
noted that she spoke with Puka Asing regarding the Commission seat for the 
Papakōlea Community Association and will follow up.  Leinaala confirmed that she 
has submitted everything for her application, returned the Oath of Office and 
completed her Ethics training. 
iv. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
v. Friends of KKCC (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Nothing to report  but will have an update 
at the next meeting.  
vi. Retreat  (Kainoa Daines) -- Nothing to report.   
vii. Outreach and Education  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report but will have 
an update at the next meeting.       
III. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa  Chair) -- Clint 
reported we are ahead of the game.  We have already submitted the City Permit requests, 
park permits for Kapiolani Park for Parade , Review Stands  and Hoʻolauleʻa  information  as 
well as most of the State information. . We are just awaiting meetings with Department of  
Transportation to finalize permits.  We are also continuing to seek sponsorships.  We are 
still working to secure horses for the pāʻū units .  
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Louise reported that we will be following the same 
program as last year.  She  is moving forward securing everything needed.   
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leinaala Lopez ) -- Leinaala reported she is working with  
Tylor to do the K ing’s Gala on Friday night with the entertainers locked in and potential ly 
two halau coming.  They are w orking on the p āʻū units and will be meeting next  weekend.  
Her cousin is Micah Kamo ʻoaliʻi wants to come over  to participate as well .   
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Moani reported that this 
month they are meeting with the princesses and securing their participation in the Oʻahu 
Lei Draping Ceremony.  She has completed her ethics commission training and completed 
her application for a second term.   
f. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kona Lei Draping/Parade/ Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kehaulani Keana‘aina) -- Kehaulani reported as 
Parade Chair for Kona they had the ir first meeting tonight to kick- off the push forward.   
For Pāʻū  they have all islands filled except Moloka ʻi. They are planning to have  Kimo 
come over for the Pāʻū workshop.   
IV. Commissioner reports/updates non -island specific representatives  
a. Royal Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa noted that it was humbling and 
an honor for him and the Royal Order to stand guard at Iolani Pal ace and at Mauna Ala for 
the services of Princess Kawananakoa.  ʻŌiwi TV Filmed the services and you can find it 
on YouTube .   
b.  ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Louise noted that the ladies were also honored to 
be at the the memorial for the P rincess .  They are preparing for Queen Ka ʻahumanu’s  
upcoming event.  
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- Kainoa send a big mahalo to Hale O Nā Aliʻi for their role 
as the coordinator for Princess Kawananakoa ’s services .  
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Puak ʻeala 
noted that  their organization had also escorted the royalty from Tahiti during the event and 
were grateful for everyone’s participation.  
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kehaulani noted that they too were 
honored to participate in the services of Princ ess Kawananakoa.  Their annual meeting will 
be on Feb. 16.  They are holding ʻolelo  classes on Friday from 11 am – noon beginning i n  
February  on Feb. 25 from 9 am – 2 pm .  Also, on March 17 they will be celebrating and 
honoring the birth day of King Kamehameha III  in Keahou.  
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) -- K ēhau reported there have been 
emails requesting support of the DHHL chair  to submit testimony.  They  also represented 
at Princess Abigail’s  services.  Kainoa  also repor ted that he reached  out to CNHA 
regarding how  we can work  Lei Ali’i and  support  Prince Kuhio Day  activities .  They  will 
be holding the  Prince Kuhio  Parade , which  is a 2-mile parade, in  Ko’olina.    
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association  (Vacant)  -- Leilani Kahaono noted that she 
has been reaching out to the board over the last few months with no response.  She 
contacted a family member who advised that there is new leadership in place for the 
Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead  Association .  Leilani plans to contacted her cousin Maile 
and connect her and Kēhau.  Kainoa noted that he believed the seat has been vacant at least 
5 years or more and mentioned that if Leilani needed any support please let us know.  He 
also commented that the there is a new Boards and Commissions contact Wendy Kondo.  
Leilani noted that she had previously applied to be a member and will follow through on 
the process of application for both the Association and the Commission.    
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani noted she will be going to Texas 
again with  a Pāʻū unit. 
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Desiree will be reaching out  Darlene Endrina regarding the 
Commission seat.  
V. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday , March 14 , 2023, from 6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VI. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  6:55 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/1-10-23-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes-Final.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:   Tuesday, January  10, 2022 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
   
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal Order of Kamehameha),  Moanike‘ala 
Whittle -Wagner  (Island of Maui ), Napu’unoa Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools Alumni 
Associat ion), Desiree Moana Cruz (Island of Hawai‘i),  Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Kaʻ ahumanu) ,  
Kimo  Alama  Keaulana  (Kapahulu Music Club), Kēhau Pe ‘a (Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs),  
Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Kaʻ ahumanu)  
  
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair) , Leinaala Bishaw  (Island of Molokaʻi 
Volunteer/Commission Candidate) , Beverly Lee, (Equestrian Chair),  Kalei Hoffman , (Island of Kauaʻi  
Volunteer/Commission Candidate ) 
  
I. Call to Order, establish quorum  -- Meeting called  to order at 6:0 5 p.m. by  Chair Kainoa 
Daines.   The meeting minute approval was postponed for August, September, October,  and 
December due to lack of quorum  and the November meeting was cancelled.  No public was present 
to provide testimony. 
a. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy Hammond)  -- Completed  the regularly required 
DAGS  administrative duties and tasks  as well as distribute the statewide sponsorship 
package which is also in our online Commission folder.  Working closely with Kala 
Foundation to provided final revisions from HTA on various parts of the grant report.  
Confirmed that the  State Foundation on Culture and the Arts had finally processed the 
payment for the Honolulu Star -Advertiser.  Completed the transition paperwork with the 
new Com ptroller whom we are still awaiting to meet with the new Comptroller, Keith 
Regan .  Just a reminder to those who have not  taken the mandatory Ethics Commission 
Training  include Moani, Kehaulani and Kalei .  Kainoa reiterated the importance of taking 
the Eth ics Commission Training.  The Sponsorship information has been distributed as it is 
in a templet form and please update who you have sent this information for tracking 
purposes.  This will avoid duplication for neighbor islands. This is a training class.  Please 
distribute to the members of your organization. 
II. KKCC Business  
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing to report.  
b. 2023 Statewide Theme  -- We are still collecting ideas for themes and have narrowed it 
down to about five options.  We generally try to use the theme across the pae ʻāina  to 
unified the celebration.  Kainoa will clean up the suggestions and add a few and then we 
will email everyone requesting their top two choices and make a determination so everyone  
can have the theme by ear ly next week.  Feel free to circulate it among your membership if 
you choose to do so.   
c. Financial Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Amy reported that we have a zero balance and updated 
are still awaiting $50,000 from the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts for Lei 
Draping .   
d. Kala Foundation  (Clint Kalaola)  – Clint reported the contract with the state contract has 
ended.   
e. Fundraising Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
f. Committee  Repo rts 
i. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Opening day is January 18.  At present we do not 
have any active legislation.  Amy reported she will be going to the legislative 
meetings with DAGS to be available to answer questions from WAM and FIN this 
week.  
ii. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report. 
iii. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and Kehaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau  welcomed Kalei 
Hoffman and also noted she had invited Leilani Kahoano from Waimānalo who has 
showed interest in being a Commissiomer.  Kēhau  directed Leilani to reach out to 
Kilauea Wilson for a letter of support.   We are working closely with the newly 
appointed Boards and Commissions Director, Wendy Kondo to clarify the 
upcoming expiration dates for Commission seat terms which are expiring in June 
2023 including Puakeala, Kimo, Leilani and Moani.  Kimo and Moani confirmed 
they are both interested in serving a second and were directed to reapply with the 
existing application prior to June 30.  Amy to confirm application deadline.  Kainoa 
noted Kilauea Wilson ’s mother passed . Beverly to provide to Amy and Kēhau with 
his email . 
iv. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
v. Friends of KKCC (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Nothing to report  but is working on a 
timeline to begin working on the project in March. 
vi. Retreat  (Kainoa Daines) -- Nothing to report.   We are at a ze ro balance and will be 
working on determining the possibility for funding and awaiting the deposit from 
SFCA.  This has been tabled until we meet with the new Comptroller.  
vii. Outreach and Education  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Desiree noted regarding the 
education and art contest that she had spoke with Emily Catey with the Volcano 
Arts Center who showed willingness to establish outreach to other art galleries 
statewide for a Kamehameha art contest. She also emailed Carl Powell 
Kamehameha Sch ools Art Teacher to do an art contest in the schools.  Desiree has 
submitted a request for funding this year for a prize for the winners.  The contest 
last year was small but successful.   
III. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- Kalei Hoffman reported that there will be an event on 
Kauaʻi and they are doing fundraising. Amy also noted that she received a flyer regarding a 
pop up fundraising event in the Jasmine Ballroom from 7 pm – 9 pm on January 27 
featuring a fashion show by Micah Kamohoaliʻi.  She has requested a flyer which will be 
distributed to everyone.  Kainoa noted to everyone that should you have any other events 
please be sure to share them with us for distribution on our social media.   
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade Co -Chair) -- Clint reported 
Kala Foundation is working with Amy on submitting the park permits for Kapiolani Park 
for Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa.  We have already received applications for the parade and 
vendor applications for Hoʻolauleʻa.  We have bands and motor cycle units coming from 
the mainland.  We are also continuing to seek sponsorships.  Beverly is working with the  
pāʻū units and have 4 confirmed. Horses are still a concern. Currently the cost is a 
minimum of $1,000 not including practices so there will be  a great deal of fundraising 
going on.  The Kanaina building has been reserved for wrapping but the Barracks cannot 
be secured until closer to the event because that is managed through DLNR.  
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report.  Kainoa noted he received an 
email from Mapuana DeSilva who will be traveling so she suggested we could secure 
another hālau for this year.   
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leinaala Bishaw)  -- Leinaala reported she and Tylor plan 
to meet this month and plan to follow  the same agenda they had in 2022.  The event will 
kick-off on Friday with a Gala on June 2 and then June 3 they will hold the parade on 
Saturday evening allowing more time for the pāʻū units and floats to get prepared with 
Hoʻolauleʻa to follow at the par k until 10 pm. 
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Moani noted that all of the 
island pāʻū units with the exception of Hawaiʻi Island are filled with six riders.  All of the 
events will be on a similar schedule as 2022.  She also report ed that on December 3rd they  
went to Kealia Pond where they planted a tree in memory of Florence Makekau, a former 
lei master with her services scheduled for January 28 at Waiola.  The pāʻū units will be 
there in recognition of her 40 years of contributions.    
f. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Desiree apologized that she had not reached out to 
the groups this month but will do so for next month.  She noted that the Hilo Statue has not 
been cleaned and Kainoa noted that this is the responsibility of the Hilo Māmalahoa  
Alumni Association. Desiree will notify Micah Alameada and ask if he can look into the 
statue cleaning as people are bringing many offerings that also need to be cleaned which 
she has been doing in the past.  She will contact Māmalahoa  Alumni Association and will 
copy Napuʻunoa, Kimo and Kainoa.  Kainoa noted that we are still awaiting to get the 
Memorandum of Agreement signed from them as well.  He noted that the Statue was 
moved from Princeville to Hilo with the assistance of former Commissioner Skylark 
Rossetti and Māmalahoa  Alumni  Association.  Napuʻunoa inquired how long this has been 
going on?  Desiree noted that the gold leaf has a great deal of limu growing on it and there 
are pohaku that are coming loose and some lights are not working.   She suggested that a 
weekly schedule b e made to remove the offerings and also a cleaning schedule.  In 2022 
the lei were not removed after lei draping for a very long time which also damages the 
statue.  Micah was repeatedly reminded to no avail. Kainoa sent out a mahalo to Lopaka 
Kapanui with Mysteries of Hawaiʻi helps to maintain the Oʻahu statue as he has his night 
time walking ghost tour groups and often removes offerings on an ongoing basis.  There is 
not an issue in Kohala as the people there maintain the offering removals.  The statue in 
Hilo will be included in the upkeep that is provided through the State Foundation on 
Culture and the Arts which would be very helpful.  Desiree also noted that this came to 
light as a focus when several years back someone broke the  spear  on the statue and they 
had to pay for the repairs .   
h. Kona Lei Draping/Parade/ Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kehaulani Keana‘aina) -- Nothing to report.  
IV. Commissioner reports/updates non -island specific representatives  
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa reported the organization  
received an endowment from princess Regina Kawananakoa that  was put in the scholarship 
fund.  Also member  Ray Jardine sold his company and as a condition of sale required a  
contribution of  one million  dollars over the course of time to the Royal Order reserved for 
Native Hawaiian educatation.  Kainoa will forward a link with additional information.  
These funds will be managed generating interest of approximately  $40,000 per year  once  
fully matured .  He also informed everyone the Royal Order will be at the funeral for 
Abiga il Kawananakoa will be on January 22 and also at the services at Mauna Ala on 
January 23.   
b. ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Louise thanked everyone  for the reimbursement 
for Lei Draping.  Pauline remains the Pelek ikena.  They are preparing for this year ’s event.  
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- Nothing to report. 
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --Nothing to 
report.  
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  – Nothing to report  
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) -- K ēhau reported that  they  have  a new  
AHCC  Board:   Dre  Kalili – Pelekikena,  Makana Paris  - Hope  Pelekikena Mua,  Walter  
"Rusty"  Rodenhurst  - Hope  Pelekikena ʻElua,  Lu Ann Lankford -Faborito -  Puʻukū.  
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo noted it was nice to be to do the 
demonstration of historical pāʻū and showed wrapping at the seco nd Pāʻū and Paniolo  
event at the Mu’u at the Museum  including using rope.   Beverly organized some 
demonstrations regarding the p āʻū and paniolo , she had lei and horse backing 
demonstrations . Desiree noted that in regards to the increased interest in Muʻu Muʻu which 
began with a person on Kauaʻi who has a company called Machine Machine.  Michelle 
Zane is hosting an event in Hilo for everyone to wear their muʻu muʻu wear one and have 
one to trade.  Kimo noted that last week Home Depot had Kaua ʻi ʻilima so he purchased 
and planted.  Moani has an email thread to track the progress of the ʻilima and will include 
Kimo.  Mahalo to Moani.  Kimo mentioned that there are different kinds of ʻilima not 
ground cover lei instead they use ʻilima shrub. Desiree noted that the Hapuna Prince Hotel 
property has lots of ʻilima as ground cover.  Mauna Kea Beach Resort has kauna at 
Kaunaʻoa Bay. She suggested approaching the properties to see if she could work with 
them to allow the lei makers to access the properties for lei making. This partnership with 
hotels would be a great community cultural activity and lei makers would have access.  
Kimo also noted regarding Princess Kawananakoa on Sunday, January 22 she will be 
Lying- in-State  at ʻIolani Palace 2 pm – 8 pm for viewing by the public. On January 23 this 
is by invitation only at Mauna Ala a smaller group in the chapel and then others outside in 
a tent.    
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani noted that on Maui the pooper 
scoopers use the theme for a contest.   Kainoa reiterated that voting for theme to be 
distributed this week.   
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
V. Upcoming Meeting  -- Monday, February 13, 2023, from 6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VI. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  7:08 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/12-13-22-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes-.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA   
 
 
                             STATE OF HAWAII  
  
 
AUDREY HIDANO  
COMPTROLLER  
KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA 
LAULĀ  
 
MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
DEPUTY COMPTROLLER  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU  
HANA LAULĀ  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI  96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
  
Date:   Tuesday, December 13, 2022  
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
  
Commission Attendees:   Kainoa Daines (Royal Order of Kamehameha),  Moanike‘ala Whittle -
Wagner  (Island of Maui ), Kehaulani Keana ʻaina, (Daughters of Hawaiʻi),  Napuʻunoa 
Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association), Desiree Moana Cruz  (Island of 
Hawai‘i),  Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Kaʻ ahumanu),  
  
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  with Tidal Wave Productions (Volunteer Parade Co- Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a 
Chair) , Leinaala Lopez (Molokaʻi Volunteer/Commission Candidate)  
  
      I.         Call to Order, establish quorum  -- Meeting called to order at 6:06 p.m. by Chair 
Kainoa Daines.   The meeting minute approval was postponed for August, September, 
October  due to lack of quorum  and the November meeting was cancelled.  No public was 
present to provide testim ony. 
a.     Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy Hammond)  -- Finalized all information for 
HTA Grant reporting. W orking closely with Kala Foundation and  with  the State 
Foundation on Culture and the Arts on finalizing agreements and  payments. 
Providing all  the goals and information for the transition to the new Comptroller, 
Keith Regan.   Updated the statewide sponsorship packages and will be providing 
those for distribution.  Also completing  the regularly required DAGS  administrative 
duties and tasks.  
   II.         KKCC Business  
a.     Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Please be sure to work with 
Amy on sponsorship if you have any potential candidates. Keith Regan is the new 
director for DAGS . Previously, he has been with Maui County, HTA and DCC A 
who Kainoa knows well.  He is a good listener, organized, patient and we will be 
meeting with him this year or early next year to discuss our position and challenges 
as well as further strengthen our relationship with DAGS.  The Deputy Director is 
Meoh -Leng Sil lman.   Amy is scheduled to meet with him this week and will report 
back.    
   
b.    2023 Statewide Theme -- We are still collecting ideas for themes  as it has been 
holding up the distribution of the sponsorship packages.  
c.     Financial Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Kainoa Daines reported that we are still 
awaiting $50,000 from the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts for Lei Draping 
and hope to streamline the receipt process in the future. 
d.     Kala Foundation  (Clint Kalaola)  -- Clint Kalaola reported the  Kala Foundation 
has submitted everything to the state and the contract  has been completed.  
e.     Fundraising Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
f.      Committee  Repo rts 
i.     Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Nothing to report. 
ii. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
iii.      Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and  Kehaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau  noted 
that for Retention,  she  wanted to acknowledge and mahalo Denise Kaʻaʻa 
who was repping  Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association  for a bit 
and is saddened by her passing last week.   Sending our condolences to 
Denise’s  family. A huge congratulations and  blessings to Kainoa, his 
beautiful fiancée, and ʻohana!   Mahalo to Leinaala for joining us on the 
call.   Desiree noted that Kalei , or C ece, Hoffman who works at the Kauaʻi 
Museum and was excited about being a commissioner  however she has a 
longstanding commitment o n Tuesday nights and wanted to see if we 
would consider moving the meetings to the second Wednesday of the 
month as she would be a great edition to the Commission.   Kainoa 
mentioned that he is not available and could only do Mondays.   Desiree 
will follow u p with Cece regarding  her participation.   Commissioners can 
submit a report or proxy to vote at the meetings if they cannot attend to 
accommodate to fill the outstanding seats.   Kainoa mentioned that we 
have had vacancies  for a long time for Waimānalo and Papakōlea and one 
consideration is to remove both of those seats and add on Sovereign Council 
of Hawaiian Homestead Associations  (SCH HA) who operates across the 
state or add an Oʻahu Commission seat.  We should consider adding 
additional organizations  through legislation which would need to be 
introduced in January or February and would require testimony and 
lobbying.   He is not advoca ting removal  of these organizations but 
would like to discuss these ideas so we can achieve quorum at future 
meetings.    The Paniolo Preservation Society is also another organization 
to consider adding on or other new organizations.  
 iv.     State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report. 
v.     Friends of KKCC (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Nothing to report. 
 vi.     Outreach and Education  (Desiree Cruz)  -- Desiree noted that last year 
the Volcano Arts Center hosted a Kamehameha Arts Contest, and she 
inquired if we could offer a cash prize for 2023.  Kainoa noted that we need 
to determine what the committee should be doing such as developing 
readings, creatin g mele or hula, fundraising, etc. with the various museums, 
art galleries, etc. to  answer the question of regarding a cash prize. and then 
report back to the Commission.  He suggested the committee be established 
to showcase and share outside of the normal  Kamehameha Celebrations ,    
meet to flush out the committees’  activities and acti ons and report back to the 
Commission.  
vii.      Retreat  (Kainoa Daines) -- Nothing to report.  
 III.          Events  
a.     Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
b.     Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade Co -Chair) -- Clint 
reported we are currently seeking  sponsors.  
c.  Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report.    
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leinaala Lopez ) -- Leinaala reported  Tylor  has 
started to secure bands for the events.  
e.     Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Nothing to report.  
f.     Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
g.      Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
h.     Kona Lei Draping/Parade/ Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kehaulani Keana‘aina) --  Nothing to 
report.  
 IV.          Commissioner reports/updates non -island specific r epresentatives  
a.     Royal Order of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing to report.  
b.     ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report . 
c.     Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- Nothing to report. 
d.     Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --
Nothing to report. 
e.     Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kehaulani reported the second 
annual  Muʻu at the Museum will be taking place with the theme Pāʻū and Paniolo on 
January 7 from 5 – 9 pm at  Hānaiakamalama on Oʻahu.   Also,  on the Kona Parade 
Route  the Banyan Tree has taken thousands of dollars to maintain and the tree was 
recently trimmed at Huliheʻe Palace in Kona . It’s looking healthy and beautiful and  
mahalo to the community  for their kōkua . 
f.      Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) -- Nothing to report. 
g.     Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Nothing to 
report.  
h.    Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.     
i.      Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
j.      Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) --  Nothing to report.  
k.     Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to re port. 
l.      Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani reported that they went 
to Ke ālia Pond two weeks ago to plant additional ʻ ilima.   The observed the previous 
ʻilima plants  in which some have survived, and others have not so we need to be 
vigilant  in continuing to reforest our native plants.  Kainoa asked Amy to be sure to 
share these kinds of things via our social media.    
m.   Island  of Kauaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to repor t. 
n.    Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing  
o.     Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
    V.         Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday, January 10,  2023, from 6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
 VI.          Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  6:35 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/10-11-22-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA   
 
 
                             STATE OF HAWAII  
  
 
AUDREY HIDANO  
COMPTROLLER  
KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA 
LAULĀ  
 
MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
DEPUTY COMPTROLLER  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU  
HANA LAULĀ  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI  96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:    Tuesday, October  11, 2022 
Time: 6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom  and State Foundation on C ulture  and the Arts Multipurpose  Room   
 
Commission  Attendees:   Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Kēhau  Pe‘a (Ass ociation  of Hawaiian  
Civic  Clubs), Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui ), Kimo  Alama  Keaulana (Kapahulu 
Music  Club) , Puake‘ ala Mann  (Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua),  
Napuʻunoa  Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni Association),  and Desiree Moana Cruz 
(Island  of Hawai‘i ). 
 
Attendees:  Clint Kalaola  with Tidal Wave Productions (Volunteer Parade Co- Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a 
Chair) , Lein aala Bishaw  (Molokaʻi Volunteer/Commission Candidate) , Charles Heaukūlani   
(Māmalahoa – Royal  Order  of Kamehemeha I, Hilo  Chapter)  
 
I. Call to Order , establish  quorum  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:04 p.m. by  Vice Chair  Ian 
Custino.  The  meeting  minute  approval  was postponed for August  and September  due to 
lack of quorum.   It was noted  that Leinaala Bishaw  was present  representing  Moloka ʻi as a 
Commission  Candidate.   Also  Charles  with  the Royal  Order  of Kamehemeha I, Hilo  
Chapter  is present.  No public  was present  to provide  testimony.  
a. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy  Hammond)  -- Amy  noted she  completed  the 
regularly  required  DAG S administrative  duties  and tasks . All Commissioners  were  
required  to complete the  mandatory Ethics  Training  in which  she received  
confirmation  from  the following:   Kainoa,  Desiree,  Ian, Puakeʻala,  Louise , 
Napuʻunoa  have  completed  their  ethics  training.  Kēhau  signed up for the  Jan. 24 
training.  Other  activities  included working closely  with  Kala Foundation to  finaliz e 
the HTA deliverables  and follow  up on payments.  
II. KKCC Business 
a. Executive Committee  Report  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Nothing to  report.     
b. 2023 Statewide  Theme -- We are still collecting  ideas  for themes  with  the deadline 
for submission on November  1.  We ask everyone  to submit  theme  ideas  before  the 
next meeting  via this link .   
c. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to  report  but Clint Kalaola with  Kala 
Foundation will be  providing information  regarding our  budget  reconciliation  for 
   
2022.  Ian  noted that  we are in  a much  better  position this  year  compared  to the 
previous  year  with regard  to budget  planning and  administratively  to track  and 
follow  the State  Procurement  procedures.  
d. Kala Foundation  (Clint Kalaola)  -- Clint provided a  report  on the  statewide HTA 
funding report  was provided total income  of $280,472. 01 that  is the cash  including 
HTA  in-kind 262,641.40 the  expenses  were  $149,000.00 and  $125,000.00  of the 
HTA funds  and other  cash  equaled  out to $275,200.00. Expenses  in-kind 
257,266.43.  The  HTA c ash, other  cash and in-kind donation the  expenses  came out  
to $535,231.61.  Equals  out but with  the hard  cash  we have  a deficit  of $2,753.00 
which  is not bad as sponsorship was  minimal.   If Kamehameha Schools  promise  of 
$10,000.00 would have  come  in then  we would have  been  in a better  position.  We 
did get  $5,100.00 on June  9 from  Kanu  Hawaiʻi  which  was a left over  balance and 
also received  a balance $ 172.01  on August  12 when  they  closed  their  account.   Kala 
Foundation has  received  thus far $120,000.00 with  $80,000.00 outstanding from  
HTA.   All invoices  have  been  paid  except  for Kala Foundation.  All  other  islands  
have  been  paid  out.  We will receive the  HTA balance once HTA accepts  the final  
deliverables  and State Foundation on C ulture  and the Arts processes  the payment.   
Ian noted that  hope fully  moving forward  we can use this same budget  copy  and 
repeat  with  updated numbers  as we move  forward  so it should be  better.   Within  the 
next two meetings  we should have  the final  budget  for 2022 and  will be  our starting  
budget  for 2023.  If you are a  new  Commissioner  and need  access  to the shared  
folder  please request  if from  Amy.   Please note  that the files  are confidential  and for 
Commission  eyes  only.  
e. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Ian noted  that what  a difference a  year 
makes  with  regards  to funding as  this time  last year  we did not  know  where our  
funding was  coming from  and then  HTA funding  came through, so  we are grateful .  
f. Committee  Reports   
i. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ii. Statuary  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  reported  he was contacted  by 
Louise  Alina  who  has expressed  an interest in  joining the  statuary  committee.    
Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau  updated not ing 
that we will included a  link in the meeting  minutes  to show  everyone ’s 
Commission  terms  and expiration date.   There are  also notes, that  advise  
some  clarification.   All  commissioners  have  access  to the link  in the 
google  drive  folder.    Regarding vacant  seats  Waimanalo  it was  noted that  
Denise Kaʻa ʻa application  was received  but it is going to  be transferred  to 
someone  else as  Kilauea Wilson  has advised  it may  be his mother  designated 
as the representative.   The  Papakōlea seat  still needs  to be filled.   For  Lānaʻi, 
Kepā Maly  has shared  a name of  a potential  Commission  candidate.   As 
always  if you have someone  in mind, please pass  them  along as  we have not  
had representation.   Regarding Kaua ʻi we have a  representative that  is 
interested, Kalei  Hoffman,  but has a meeting  confli ct.  Mahalo  to Leinaala of 
Molokaʻi  for applying.  Kēhau tried  to contact  Sharon Ibara  at the 
Governor ’s office  but she was not able to  reach  her regarding  additional  term  
information .  Desiree inquired if  the Papak ōlea debt  had been  cleared  and 
Kēhau noted that  it was  cleared  and the only issue  we have  at present  is that 
we are waiting  for a candidate must  be a member  and approved by the     
Papakōlea Community  Association .  Lilia  has turned in  her application  to be 
a Commissioner  and is await ing approval  from  Lionel  Wright.  
iii. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
iv. Friends  of KKCC (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Nothing to  report.  
v. Outreach  and Education  (Desiree  Cruz)  -- They  are looking to  work  with  
the art galleries,  museums  and libraries  celebrating  the life of Kamehameha 
to feature presentation,  exhibitions, contests,  display, etc.  with projects  in the 
work s. 
vi. Retreat  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing  to report.  
III. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
b. Oʻahu   
i. Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair ) -- All 
applications  our posted online  for anyone  who wants  to participate  in the 
2023 event.   The  theme  will be  updated as  it is confirmed.   He has already  
received  a couple  of applications  for Hoʻolauleʻa  and working on 
sponsorships  at this point.  We will need  to raise approximately $100,000.00 
- $150,000.00 for 2023. As was noted last  meeting  due to the funding cycle 
we will always  be chasing  the funding unless  we raise approximately 
$150,000.00.  It  was not ideal  but this year  Kala Foundation fronted  a 
significant  amount  of funds  due to the payment  cycle.   We have requested  
that the SFCA  move  the payment  dates  for our  Lei Draping Grant .   
ii. Statue  Lei Draping (Louise  Alina)  -- Nothing to  report .    
c. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa ( Leinaala Bishaw ) -- Nothing to  report.  
d. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to  report.  
e. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
f. Island  of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo  Lei Draping and Kohala  Lei Draping/Parade/  
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree  Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report.  
g. Kona Lei  Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kehaulani Keana‘aina ) -- Nothing to  
report.  
IV. Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
a. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Nothing to  report.  
b. ʻAhahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  -- Nothing to  report . 
c. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.   
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --
Nothing to  report.  
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Nothing to  report.  
f. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻa) -- Kēhau shared  that they do 
have  new  Oʻahu  Council  Board  Members .  The  new  president  is Jacob  Aki and there 
are also  some  other  new  board members . Ian reported  that the leadership  of the main  
council  will also  change  at the end of the year . 
g. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Nothing to  
report.  
h. Kapahulu  Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.      
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.   
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report . 
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to  report.     
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report . 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing  
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
V. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday, November  8, 202 2, from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VI. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  6:40 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/9-13-22-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURO  
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810- 0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI  96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:    Tuesday, September  13, 2022 
Time: 6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom  and State Foundation on C ulture  and the Arts Multipurpose  Room   
 
Commission  Attendees:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  Kēhau  Pe‘a (Assn.  of 
Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu ), Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  
(Island  of Maui ), Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina  (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i),), 
Kimo  Alama  Keaulana  (Kapahulu Music  Club)  
 
Attendees:  Clint Kalaola  with Tidal Wave Productions (Volunteer Parade Co- Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a 
Chair) , Lein aala Bishaw  (Molokaʻi Volunteer/Commission Candidate) , Charles Heaukūlani   
(Māmalahoa – Royal  Order  of Kamehemeha I, Hilo  Chapter),  Michael -John  DeMello  (Māmalahoa 
– Royal  Order  of Kamehemeha I, Hilo  Chapter)   
 
I. Call to Order , establish  quorum  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:09 p.m. by  Chair  Kainoa  
Daines .  The  meeting  minute  approval  was postponed due  to lack  of quorum.  
a. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy  Hammond)  -- Amy  noted she  completed  the 
regularly  required  DAG S administrative  duties  and tasks  including an  annual  report  
for State  Foundation on Culture  and the Arts  (SFCA ).  She  also distributed  our five 
year goals  for KKCC  in the previous  meeting  minutes .  Other  activities  included 
working closely  with  Kala Foundation to  finaliz e the HTA deliverables  and submit  
reports  to expedite  funding;  the check  will then  be sent out immediately . Kainoa  and 
Amy  met with  the new  SFCA  Executive  Director , Allison  Wong, to  discuss  KKCC’s  
merging and  falling under  their  department  moving forward .  Per  their  discussion , 
KKCC  will advance to  raise  $200,000 to  keep  the statewide  funding flowing  and 
request  SFCA  to promptly forward  the Lei Draping  Funding rather  than  chas ing after  
those funds. 
II. KKCC Business 
a. Executive Committee  Report  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Kainoa  reported  that he and Amy  
met with  the new  SFCA  Executive  Director,  Allison  Wong.  They  discuss ed the 
impact  of KKCC’s  merge with  SCFA  and advised  they  will provide  additional  
   
procurement  training. Allison  also noted she  will request  additional  staff  to assist 
Amy  with  administrative  tasks  and that the pay comes  from  the General  Fund.    
b. 2023 Statew aide Theme -- Kēhau  suggested hula  as a possibility  since it is  the 60th 
anniversary  of the Merrie  Monarch  Hula  Competition.  Previously we  had discussed  
using FestP AC’s theme,  however  the event  has been  moved to  2024 
https://festpachawaii.org/ .  Kehaulani  inquired if  we had a consistent  theme  
statewide  it would be  an advantag e for us  to get more  funding.  We  are hopeful  that 
all islands  will adopt  an overarching theme  to create a  more  cohesive  marketing  
program.  We  ask everyone to  submit  theme  ideas  before  the next  meeting  via this 
link.  Kainoa  will research  a document  with  the list of  past themes.   
c. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.  
d. Kala Foundation  (Clint Kalaola)  -- Nothing to  report.  
e. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
f. Committee  Reports   
i. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ii. Statuary  (Vacant ) -- Kimo  Alama  Keaulana agreed  to chair  the Statuary  
Committee.   Kainoa  reported  we are still waiting  for KS Alumni  to agree and 
sign off to  transfer the  Hilo  Statue  to the State  of Hawaiʻi.  
iii. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau  reported  that she 
spoke  with  Sharon Ibara  at the Governor ’s office  who updated her  on the  
commission ers’ term  expirations.  In  addition, per  Sharon, six  commissioners  
(Desiree,  Kimo,  Kehaulani,  Napuʻunoa , Ian, Kēhau)  did not  notarize and  
return  their  Oath  of Office  certificate to  her office.   There was  some  
discussion if  perhaps  the certificates  were  misfiled,  lost in the mail,  or 
delayed.   Kehaulani  reported  she has not been  able to confirm  with  the 
candidate from  Kaua ʻi who express ed interest in  representing  the Island  of 
Kauaʻi . In addition, Kēhau  acknowledged  Leina ala Bishaw  who  has 
confi rmed that she will be  completing  the paperwork to  apply for the  
Molokaʻi  Commission  seat.  Vacant  seats  remain  for Waimānalo  Hawaiian  
Homestead  Association , Papakōlea Community  Association , Island  of 
Kauaʻi,  and Island  of Lānaʻi.   Amy  will also provide  the list of  term  
expiration dates  in the next  meeting  reminder . All commissioners  have  
access  to the link in the google  drive  folder .    
iv. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
v. Friends  of KKCC (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Nothing to  report.  
vi. Retreat  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Retreat has  been postponed  until  we have  the 
finances  sorted  out.   The  Queen Emma  Summer  Palace facilities  was  
mentioned  as a possib le venue.  
III. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
b. Oʻahu   
i. Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair ) -- Awaiting  
information  from  the Honolulu Star -Advertiser  to create sponsorship packet  
for 2023.  
ii. Statue  Lei Draping (Louise  Alina)  -- Nothing to  report .    
c. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa ( Leinaala Bishaw ) -- Nothing to  report.  
d. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- 
Nothing to  report.     
e. Island  of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo  Lei Draping and Kohala  Lei Draping/Parade/  
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree  Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report.  
f. Kona Lei  Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kehaulani Keana‘aina ) -- Kehaulani  noted 
the committee  will be  meeting  soon to  disucss  2023.  
IV. Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
a. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Nothing to  report.  
b. ʻAhahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  -- Louise  reported  the ʻAhahui  
Kaʻahumanu and ʻAha  Hīpuʻu held a soldout  event,  The Kalani  Aliʻi Awards  Banquet , 
on August   27, 2022  at The Mānoa Ballroom. The Royal  Societies  recognized  member s 
active in community  service and  in Hawaiian  culture.  
c. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.   
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --
Nothing to  report.  
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kehaulani  reported  that the Oʻahu  
day at Queen  Emma  Summer  Palace was very  successful  and thanked  Kainoa for 
emceeing  the event.  
f. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻa) -- The 2022 convention  will be  
taking place in  Seattle  in October.  
g. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Nothing to  
report.  
h. Kapahulu  Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  reported  he was notified  by 
Alika  Lee about  some  files that belonged to  his mother  Adeline  Maunupau  Lee, a  
previous  KKCC  Commissioner  representing  Kapahulu Music  Club.  He  is working 
toward s scanning the  files.   Also,  Mary  Jane Montono who  was a relative  of 
Kamehameha has  some  written  files  in Hawaiian  that he will be  reviewing.   Kainoa  
advised  that if desired,  storage  space at the office  is available.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.   
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report . 
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  reported  that Maui  riders  
planted  350 ‘ilima  plants  as part of their  5 hours  of hoʻi ka ʻāina community  service 
per person (6 in the unit, a total of  30 hours  of each  year ) and not to always  take at  
parade time.   This  past parade there was absolutely no ʻilima  to be found on Maui  
nor Oʻahu  contacts.   Kealia  Pond National  Wildlife  and Refuge holds  Thursday 
planting days  that they  were planting ʻilima.   She  contacted  them  and worked  with  
them  to have  a planting day  there on August  13, Saturday, with  14 riders.  
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report . 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- The Committee  is beginning to  meet  and has reached  
out to Tylor  to participate.   
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
V. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday, October  11, 2022,  from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VI. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  7:02 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/8-9-22-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURO  
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810- 0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI  96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:    Tuesday, August  9, 202 2 
Time: 6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom  and State Foundation on C ulture  and the Arts Multipurpose  Room   
 
Commission  Attendees:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  Kēhau  Pe‘a (Assn.  of 
Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu ), Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  
(Island  of Maui ), Napuʻunoa  Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association), Kehaulani  
Keana ‘aina  (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Puake‘ ala Mann  (Daughters  
& Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua),  Kimo  Alama  Keaulana (Kapahulu Music  Club)  
 
Attendees:  Clint Kalaola with Tidal Wave Productions (Volunteer Parade Co- Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a 
Chair) , Beverly Lee, ( Equestrian  Chair ), Tylor  Tanaka (Molokaʻi Voluntee r), Lein aala Bishaw  
(Molokaʻi Volunteer/Commission Candidate)  
 
I. Call to Order , establish  quorum  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:09 p.m. by  Chair  Kainoa  
Daines .  Commissioners  were reminded  that their  video must  be on throughout  the meeting,  
while  public  attendees , do not need  to have  their  video  on. Commissioners  were reminded  to 
announce  themselves,  name  only before  speaking  and speak  slowly, be  concise and  address  
only relevant  information.   In addition, when  attending  virtually  when  you first  speak,  
please announce anyone  in the area .  He then  conducted  roll call and confirming quorum  
and approving meeting  minutes  from  June  and July.  
i. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy  Hammond)  -- Amy  noted she  completed  the 
regularly  required  DAG S administrative  duties  and tasks  including the  year -end 
responsibilities.   Other  activities  included working closely  with  Kala Foundation is  
finalizing  the HTA deliverables  and submitting  reports .  If you have  deliverables  
due, please forward  to Amy  as soon as  possible.  She  announced  that her  
department has  been merged  with  the State Foundation on  Culture  and  the Arts  
which  will  now  be known  as State Foundation on Culture  and  the Arts  including  
the King  Kamehameha  Celebration Commission.   Kainoa noted  that  we will  set a 
meeting  with  the new  director  for the State Foundation on  Culture  and  the Arts  
to discuss how  KKCC  interacts  within the  newly  established  department.  
 
   
II. KKCC Business 
i. Executive Committee  Report  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Kainoa  noted we  are l ooking  into  
creating  an investigative committee to  plan  for a commission  retreat in  October . 
KKCC  would  pay  for airfare and  hotel.  We are still  looking  for a venue.   Ian  
shared  possible  venues:  Kaʻiwakīlou moku at Kamehameha  Schools -Kapālama 
campus , Pearl  Country  Club  and  Dillingham  House .  Once  a location  has  been 
selected  we will  send  out a doodle  link  to check  everyone ’s preferred  dates.   A 
vote  was  held  and  passed  to create a  Commission  Retreat investigative  
committee.   Kainoa agreed  to chair  the investigative committee with  support  
from  Napuʻunoa  and  Ian.   In addition,  a vote  was  held  and  passed  to create an 
outreach  and  education  investigative committee.   Desiree previously had  urged  
to create the  committee  and  volun teered  to chair  leaving  her  seat on  the 
Statuary  Committee vacant.    
ii. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Kanu  Hawaiʻi  will no longer  be our fiscal  
sponsor.  Kala Foundation will be  our fiscal  sponsor  moving forward.   During his  
update  the IT was noted that  a countdown clock  appeared  announcing the  meeting  
will shut  down in  a few minutes.   Subsequently the  Zoom  meeting  shut  down and  at 
6:33 pm  the meeting  resumed  when  all Commissioners  rejoined  with the exception  
of Kēhau  Peʻa.  
iii. Kala Foundation  (Clint Kalaola)  -- Clint noted he  is finalizing  the HTA deliverables  
so we can submit  the payments  to everyone.  If you have  deliverables  due, please 
forward  those  to Amy  as soon as  possible.  At  present  we have spent  approximately  
$148,000 with  $89,000 has  been  payed  out but we are awaiting  a final  reconci llation.  
iv. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
v. Committee  Reports   
i. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ii. Statuary  (Vacant ) -- Still waiting  for KS  Alumni  to agree and sign off to  
transfer  the Hilo  Statue  to the State of Hawaiʻi  so it can  receive some  much -
needed  maintenance and repair  as well  as fall under  its insurance  policy .  
Kainoa  noted the  committee  position is  now  vacant  and we are looking for 
someone  to oversee  the cultural  protocols, best  practices  for all statues,  etc.  
Kimo  Alama  Keaulana noted  he may  be interested  to take on the  role since  
the Kapahulu Music  Club has  many  records  regarding the  statue.  
iii. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- Kehaulani  reported  that 
she was able to  confirm  with two candidates  who  express ed interest in  
representing  the Island  of Kauaʻi .  She  feels  she got a positive  response  from  
the second  candidate  and hopes  to confirm  soon.  In addition, Leina ala 
Bishaw ’s interest  in the Molokaʻi  Commission  seat was noted. She will be  
sent information  regarding the  application  process . Vacant  seats  remain  for 
Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association , Papakōlea  Community  
Association , Island  of Kauaʻi,  and Island  of Lānaʻi .  Amy  will also  provide  
the introductory information to  commissioners  since  we intend to  have the  
seats  filled  prior  to the retreat .  Kainoa  noted that  they  should follow  up with  
Sharon from  Boards  and Commissions  to determine  the expiration dates  for 
all Commission  members  prior  to the retreat.   Kehaulani  thanked Kainoa  for 
his leadership  when  he announced they  have located  a replacement  for the  
Kauaʻi  Commission  seat.     
iv. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  noted  that he found a  
newspaper  article  regarding  the dedication  of the Oʻahu statue.   Kainoa  
mentioned the  possibility  of considering merging the  Statuary  and State  
Archives  committees.  
v. Friends  of KKCC (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Mark  asked  for some  additional  
assistance in  researching  and forming  this organization.  Kainoa  suggested 
Trisha  Kehaulani  Watson -Sproat , who  specializes  in forming  non- profit  
organizations.  He  also noted that  this would be  an ideal  place for those  
whose  seats  on the  Commission  expire  could still  participate  and support  the 
cause.  
vi. Events  
1. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
2. Oʻahu   
a. Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair ) 
-- Nothing to  report.  
b. Statue  Lei Draping  (Louise  Alina)  -- Nothing  to report .    
3. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- Tylor  Tanaka reported  
2023 dates  have  been  confirmed.   Also,  Tylor  introduced Leina ala 
Bishaw  who  is interested  in becoming the  Molokaʻi  Commissioner.   
Leinaala introduced herself  noting she  was born and raised  on the  
island, has  a husband and  four  children.   
4. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing 
to report.  
5. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
6. Island  of Hawaiʻi  --Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei  
Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa  (Desiree  Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to  
report.  
a. Kona Lei  Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa  (Kehaulani 
Keana‘aina ) -- Kehaulani  confirmed  the 2023 event  dates  
have  been  set. 
III.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
i. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- The  organization recently  held  a 
ceremony  at Aliʻiōlani Hale honoring Chief  Justice  Moon who  recently  passed  away.  
ii. ʻAhahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  --  Louise  reported  the ʻAhahui  
Kaʻahumanu and ʻAha  Hīpuʻu are  celebrating  this year  with  The Kalani  Aliʻi Awards  
Banquet  on August   27, 2022 at  The Mānoa Ballroom.  The Royal  Societies  nominate d a 
member  that is active  in community  service  and in Hawaiian  culture.  
iii. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Ian reported  they  held their  annual  convention.  
iv. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --
Nothing  to report.  
v. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kehaulani reported  that  the 
organization achieved  their  fundraising  goal  in order to  have  their  banyan tree 
trimmed.   She  also noted  that they  are working on a public  service  
announcement alerting  that their  venues  are available for  rental.     
vi. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻa) -- Nothing to  report.  
vii. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Nothing to  
report.     
viii. Kapahulu  Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.   Kimo  noted 
that he is a board member  for Lanik ūhonua  and announced that  Lanikūhonua  is an 
available venue  to hold cultural  events  and activitites.  
ix. Waimānalo Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
x. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.   
xi. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xii. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  reported  she had the 2022 
wrap -up meeting  and have already  selected  seven  pāʻū units  with  an eigth  
considering participation  for 2023.    
xiii. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report . 
xiv. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
xv. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
IV. Upcoming  Meeting  -- Tuesday,  September  12, 202 2, from  6 p.m.  - 8 p.m.  
V. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  6:59 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/2022_07_KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
d          DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURO  
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810- 0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI  96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:    Tuesday, July 12, 2022  
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom  and State Foundation on C ulture  and the Arts Multipurpose  Room   
 
Commission  Attendees:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  Kēhau  Pe‘a (Assn.  of 
Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu ), Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  
(Island  of Maui ), Napuʻunoa  Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association), and  Desiree 
Moana Cruz (Island  of Hawai‘i ). 
 
Attendees:  Clint Kalaola  with Tidal Wave Productions (Volunteer Parade Co- Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a 
Chair) , Beverly Lee, ( Equestrian  Chair ), Tylor  Tanaka (Molokaʻi Volunteer),  Ronald J. Daines, 
Lilia Daines Sugimura and Travis Sugimura.    
 
I. Call to Order , establish  quorum  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:06 p.m. by  Chair  Kainoa  
Daines  and then  proceeded  to conduct  the roll call.  
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum  was not established.   The  
June 7 meeting  minutes  were tabled  until  the next  meeting .  
III. Public  Testimony  -- Kēhau  Pea testified  as the Pāʻū  Queen  noting she  appreciated  being  
selected  and participating  on behalf  of herself  and her hula  and pāʻū  ʻohana.  She wanted  to 
share some  feedback  from  her ʻohana  regarding  the management  of quieting the  parade 
participants  to enhance the  experience of  the para de.  She  mentioned she  had forgotten to  
communicate  to her units  the instructions  for stopping all  music  or loud noises  when  they  
cross  Kapahulu  Avenue, an instruction  that was presented  at the mandatory  parade meeting.   
She commented  that everyone  forgets  sometime  so she offered  the following ideas  to 
remind  and bolster  the implementation  of the noise  restrictions.  Kēhau  suggested  there be  
additional  volunteers  to remind  partic ipants  at the beginning and  end of the parade route, 
volunteers  could hold up additional  signs  near  Kapahul u Avenue.    
IV. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy  Hammond)  -- Commissioners  were reminded  that their  
video must  be on throughout  the meeting,  while  public  attendees , do not  need  to have  their  
videos  on. Commissioners  were reminded  to announce  themselves,  name only before  
speaking and  speak  slowly, be  concise and address  only relevant  information.   In addition, 
when  attending virtually  when  you first  speak,  please announce  anyone  in the area.  Amy  
   
noted she  completed  the regularly  required  DAGS  administrative  duties  and tasks  including 
the year  end responsibilities.   Other  activities  included working closely  with  events  
statewide  to assist  with  any details  required  for execution.   Conducted lou use  practice 
sessions in  preparation  for lei  draping.  Finalized  the arrang ements  with  the Neal  Blaisdell 
Center  regarding  use of the Exhibition Hall  for float  building.  Communicated  with  Oʻahu  
Lei Draping and  Parade participants  to finalize  details.  Assisted  in the execution of  the 
Oʻahu  events  working closely  with  the Mayor’s  Office  of Culture  and the Arts, the Oʻahu  
Parade Committee  and the ‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu.  Executed  the statewide  advertising and  
public  relations  campaigns.   Began  recap  meetings  and distribution  of thank you letters.   
Began  gathering information  to be included in  2023 sponsorship packag es.  Continue d to 
work  closely  with  Kala Foundation on gathering information  for HTA document ation and  
initial submission of  report  next  week.   It was noted that  the annual  position and  funding for 
the Executive  Director  position  was approved.  
V. KKCC Business 
i. Executive Committee  Report  -- Nothing to  report.  
i. Looking into  creating  an investigative  committee  to plan  for a  commission  
retreat  date in  September  or October . The committe e would put  together  the 
goals  and objectives , roles  and responsibi lities , education time,  coordinate  
travel  protocols, a  visit to  Mauna  ʻAla, to name a  few.  DAGS  reminded  that a 
part of the retreat  would need  to be open ed to the public , according  to the 
Sunshine  Law,  which  might  require  an overnight.  KKCC  would pay  for 
airfare and  hotel. We are  looking for a  public  venue  for a  day and a half with  
meals . Please let  Kainoa or Amy  know  if you wish  to participate  in the 
committee  and/or are able to  secure a  venue  for the  retreat.  Possible  venues:  
Kaʻiwakīlou moku at  Kamehameha Schools -Kapālama campus,  the State  
Foundation on Culture  and the  Arts.   Moani  mentioned she  is not available  to 
meet  on the  weekend  after  Labor Day, Desiree is  not available in  September.  
It was decided  to push the  retreat  to October.  
ii. Table O utreach  and education committee.  
ii. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Kanu  Hawaiʻi  will no longer  be our fiscal  
sponsor.  Kala Foundation will be  our fiscal  sponsor  moving forward.   Include  Kala 
Foundation in  the update  moving forward.   Kala Foundation is  finalizing  the HTA 
deliverables  so we can submit the  payments  to every one.  If you have deliverables  
due, please forward  those  to Amy  as soon as  possible. 
iii. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
iv. Comm ittee Reports   
i. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ii. Statuary  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Desiree reported  she was disappointed that  
they were not  able to  get the transfer of  the Hilo  Statue  but will be  happy to  
continue  to work  in a lesser  role to assist  with  this project.    
iii. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- K ēhau  reported  that she 
and Kehaulani  had met briefly  on the  phone .  Vacant  seats  remain  for 
Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association , Papakōlea  Community  
Association  , Island  of Kauaʻi,  Island  of Molokaʻi  and Island  of Lānaʻi.   Amy  
will provide  the introductory information  to commissioners  since we  intend 
to have  the seats  filled  prior  to the retreat.   We are awaiting  a response  from  
Kimo  Perry  regarding  Kauaʻi.     
iv. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.     
v. Events  
1. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Vacant ) -- The event  occurred,  and we are 
awaiting  documentation to  compile  the report .  
2. Oʻahu   
a. Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair ) 
-- Clint reported  that we got a good response  from  the 
Department  of Transportation (DOT),  who  mentioned that  the 
road closure s and traffic  flow worked better  than  before.   
Irene  with DOT  mentioned that  we got the word  out 
effectively  and had minimum  to zero  complaints  regarding 
traffic  and road  closures.   Hoʻolauleʻa  was very  successful  
with an estimate  of 7,000  people  attending, food vendors  sold 
out, craf ters did well  mentioning it was  the best event  they  
had, entertainment  went  well and we had good photo m urals.      
b. Statue  Lei Draping  (Louise  Alina)  -- Louise  reported  that 
everything  went very well and  there were  no issues.   It 
was  great  to see the amount  of locals  and  visitors  that 
attended  the parade.    She  inquired  if anyone else  did 
video  the parade.    Louise  was  not  impressed  with  the 
filming  done  by ʻŌlelo.   Clint liked  the format  with  the lou 
in place  of the fire  truck.   The  layout  was  much better.     
3. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- Tylor  Tanaka reported  that 
they started  off on Friday  night  at the Kingʻs  Gala dressed  in their  
holokū to  enjoy the  music  and hula.  Aunt y Lei momi Ho  performed  
to honor  the aliʻi.  The  parade  was the following day  and noted that  
2,500 attendees  came to  the Hoʻolauleʻa  ,16 non- profits  and food 
vendors . For  next  year,  they  will plan  to have  the parade and 
hoʻolauleʻa  later  in the day so it will be  cooler.   The  page ant and gala 
were both a  success.   They  are happy and excited  to do it again  next  
year.   Kainoa  thanked Tylor  for carrying  on the  work  that Heli  Silva  
Ducaroy  began.      
4. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  
reported  that the event  was a huge  success  with  many  visitors  and 
residents  attending.  She  recognized  Daryl  for his  great  work  securing  
the entertainers.   Clint brought  shirts  to the Maui  event  and they  sold 
well and people  are still inter ested.  The Parade went  very  well  and 
the Bursey  ʻohana  did a  great  job.  It was wonderful  to get everyone  
out and there was  a crowed. There is  a wrap  up meeting  on July 27 
were the  Pāʻū folks  will select  their  islands  for next  year.   They  
culminate d the  parade wit h the  awards  at the Banyan  Tree.   T-shirt 
orders  can be sent to Clint.   He appreciated  the reception  from  Daryl  
and Moani.  
5. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
6. Island  of Hawaiʻi   
a. Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei  Draping/Parade/  
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree  Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report.  
b. Kona Lei  Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa  (Kehaulani 
Keana‘aina ) -- Nothing to  report.     
7. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- 
Nothing to  report.  
VI.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
i. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ii. ʻAhahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  -- Thanked  Kainoa  and Desiree for the  great  
job emceeing  the event  and extended  her thanks  to Amy  for all  of her hard  work .  
Kainoa  noted that  this was Amy’s  first actual  year in fully  executing  the activities , as 
the first year  much  of the work  was already  done  prior  to her joining in  late March  of 
2019;  the full-scale activities  had been  cancelled  in 2020 and  2021. Kainoa  
recognized  and congratulated  Amy  for her  hard  work. 
iii. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Noth ing to  report.  
Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann) --
Nothing to report.  
iv. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  –- Nothing  to report.   
v. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻa) -- K ēhau shared  AHCC  
President  Hailama  Farden ’s comments  congratulating the  Commission  for a  “well 
run Parade and Lei Draping C eremony .”  They  will have  their  quarter ly meetin g this 
coming Saturday.  They  were very  happy with the Parade and  Lei Draping 
Ceremony  this year .   
vi. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Napuʻunoa  
praised  the emcees  and the whole  Lei Draping C eremony .  He  received  great  
feedback  from  the board,  friends  and family  who  attended.   
vii. Kapahulu  Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
viii. Waimānalo Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
ix. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.   
x. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xi. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to  report.    
xii. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Lyah  Kama- Drake)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xiii. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
xiv. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
VII. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday, August  9, 2022, from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VIII. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  6:48 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/2022_06-07_KKCC-Meeting-Minutes-Final-Draft.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA  
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL 
SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI  96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:    Tuesday, June 7, 2022  
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom  and State Foundation on C ulture  and the Arts Multipurpose  Room   
 
Commission  Attendees:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā 
Ali‘i), Kēhau  Pe‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu ), 
Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui ), Puake‘ ala Mann  (Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  
Warriors,  Māmakakaua),  Napuʻunoa  Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association),  
Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina  (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), and Desiree Moana Cruz  (Island  of Hawai‘i ) 
 
Attendees:   Clint  Kalaola with  Tidal  Wave Productions  (Volunteer  Parade Co-Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a 
Chair)  and Manu  Powers , (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i). 
  
Not present:  Kimo  Alama  Keaulana (Kapahulu Music  Club), Faith  Kalamau  and Lilia  Puniai  
(Papakōlea Community ), Denise Kaʻaʻa  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association) , Lyah  
Kama- Drake (Island  of Kaua‘i) , Beverly  Lee, (Equestrain  Chair),  Vacant  (Papakōlea Community  
Association), Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i),  Vacant  (Waim ānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association ), 
Vacant  (Island  of Molokaʻi).     
 
I. Call to Order , establish  quorum  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:09 p.m. by  Chair  Kainoa  
Daines  and then  proceeded  to conduct  the roll call.  
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum  was established.   The  May 
10 meeting  minutes  were  approved.  
III. Public  Testimony  -- None .    
IV. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy  Hammond)  -- Commissioners  were reminded  that their  
video must  be on throughout  the meeting,  while  public  attendees , do not  need  to have  their  
videos  on. Commissioners  were reminded  to announce  themselves,  name only before  
speaking and  speak  slowly, be  concise and address  only relevant  information.   In addition, 
when  attending virtually,  during roll  call pleas e announce  anyone  in the area.   Amy  noted 
she completed  the regularly required  DAGS  administrative  duties  and tasks  including 
participating  in meetings  with  HTA,  ABC  Mouse, Kanu  Hawaiʻi,  Mayor’s  Office  of Culture  
and the Arts,  Parade Committee  Meetings  and with  ‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu.  She worked with  
   
Kala Foundation awarding their  procurement.  Amy  also met with  the Mayor’s  office  to 
secure sponsorship , completed  applications  for Neal  Blaisdell Center  for float building, 
distributed  event  press  releases,  coordinated  plans  for the  150th Anniversary Tabloid Insert .  
Finalized  the artwork  for the fans  which  will be  distributed at  the Lei Draping Ceremony  on 
Oʻahu.  Amy ’s contract  was renewed  for the  next  fiscal  year.    
V. KKCC Business 
i. Executive Committee  Report  -- Mahalo  for everyone  who  contributed to  the 150th 
Anniversary Tabloid which  was published and  looks  great .  Kainoa noted that  the 
ABC  Mouse , digital online  learning  program  for keiki  was another  huge  undertaking 
and another  success .  He  announced we  are looking to  hold retreat  on Oʻahu  in the 
fall of 2022 and  will fly  over the Neighbor  Island  Commissioners  for a  two day 
event.   We will discuss  Roles and Responsibilities,  Committees , Procedures , etc.   In 
addition, others  who  are integral  parts  of the programming will be  invited  where we 
will s it down and  talk story.    
ii. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Ian presented  a report  on the  income  and 
expenses  in the Kanu  Hawaiʻi  account.  He  reviewed  that we are paying for  the HPD 
Officers  through this  account  as the names  are provided the  night  prior  and officers  
need  to be paid  the day of event  and the State procurement  system  is not that nimble  
which  is why  in the past a fiscal  non- profit  has assisted .  Kanu  Hawaiʻi  transferred  
$5,100 to  Kala Foundation as  a passthrough to  pay for part  of the HPD officers  
leaving  a balance of  $6.51 in  the account.    
iii. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
iv. Comm ittee Reports   
i. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ii. Statuary  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Desiree reported  that we are moving along 
in a positive  direction  and the kihei  and malo  were picked  up and  the invoice  
will be  submitted  for sewing  for reimbursement.   
iii. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- K ēhau  spoke  with  
Kehaulani  who  secured  a potential  name for someone  on L ānaʻi.  Lyah ’s 
position will be  expiring on June  30 for Kauaʻi.   Kainoa  suggested that  we 
seek candidates  for Kauaʻi  as well  Lānaʻi through your various  organizations .   
iv. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
v. Events  
1. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa (Lyah  Kama- Drake)  -- Nothing to  report.   
2. Oʻahu   
a. Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair ) 
-- Clint reported  we are on  track  and permits  are all secured  
and we are finalizing  the parade lineup.  He created  a souvenir  
shirt for the  150th Anniversary available at  Hoʻolauleʻa.  This  
is different  from  the regular  volunteer  t-shirt.  Getting  ready  
for Float  Building on Thursday and  Friday , Lei Draping on 
Friday  and Parade and  Hoʻolauleʻa  on Saturday .  Regarding 
Kala Foundation, with  regard  to the HTA requirements  and 
documentation.  Neighbor  Island  events  should be  preparing 
everything needed  for the  final  HTA deliverables  such as 
surveys, etc.  in order  to secure the  balance of  the funding. The  
first round of  funding deliverables  went  in on May  31.      
b. Statue  Lei Draping  (Louise  Alina)  -- Kainoa thanked  
everyone  for their  hard  work during  the Lei Draping  
Practices  and  noted  the new  auamo  and  bamboo  lou are 
very nice.   He thanked  the young men  from  Papakōlea,  Eric  
Keawe,  Elija  McShane  and  Ocean Kaowili  who  will  be 
assisting  on Friday.   He noted  that Moses  Crabbe  and  
Pahonu  Coleman  will  be a great  addition on  the mound  to 
receive lei.   Kainoa went  through  the list of Commission  
organizations  to determine if  they  planned  to present lei  
or hoʻokupu.   Louise  reported  that after  the Royal  Order 
present hoʻokupu  the ʻAhahui  Kaʻahumanu  will  perform .  
She also confirmed  that  they  will  need  one  microphone.   
Kēhau  to follow  up with  Toni  Lee regarding  the 
organizations  she  plans  to represent during  her  lei 
presentation  and remind  her  of the lei removal  protocol  
should  she  will  to remove  any  hoʻokupu  presented .  It was  
reiterated  that the lei removal  protocol is  also online in the  
protocol .  Desiree mentioned  suggested  having  everyone  
submit  a short  write  up regarding  their  participation  so 
they  can  be respectfully  acknowledged  with  some  short  
talking  points .  Desiree also noted  that she  has two people  
who  will  be assisting  at registration.  
3. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- It was reported  that 
everything went  well  on Molokaʻi .   
4. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  
reported  that she will be  attending  and bringing a  committee  member,  
Kathleen,  with  her to assist  at Lei Draping .  Currently they  do not  
have  the permit yet  for the  Parade but  do for the  Hoʻolauleʻa .  They  
expect  the Parade permit this  week.   Pāʻū units  are coming along with  
some  units  mixing  and some  growing.  Moani  inquired what  the lei 
should be  made of  as she plans  to represent  Maui  at the Oʻahu  Lei 
Drapin g with  a 30ʻ lei.  Desiree shared  that you can  use kite string  or 
the like.  Louise  noted that  they  use crochet  string,  but the most  
important  part is to ensure  that you tied  the knots  securely.   Kainoa  
noted his  cousins  daughter  will be  riding  in Maui  as part of the Maui  
unit. Unfortunately, he  will not  be able to  attend  but that she is riding 
in the parade that  her great  great  grandfather  previously organized.  
5. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
6. Island  of Hawaiʻi   
a. Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei  Draping/Parade/  
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree  Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report.  
b. Kona Lei  Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa  (Kehaulani 
Keana‘aina ) -- Kuhina  Theatre will be  doing a  documentary  
on Barbara Nobriga  following her  around filming  throughout  
the weekend.   Kainoa  requested  that the film be  shared  with  us 
to include  on our  social  media  in the future .    
7. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- 
Nothing to  report.  
VI.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
i. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ii. ʻAhahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  -- Nothing to  report .   
iii. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.  
Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann) -- 
Puakeʻala reported that they will be doing their ceremony on June 11 to conclude at 
8:30 a.m.   She inquired regarding the shuttle hours from Kapiʻolani Park and it was 
noted that the shuttle is for drivers only, everyone should be dropped off downtown.  
Departure t imes  from the Paki Monsarrat Lot at Kapi ʻolani  Park  will leave at 7:00 am , 
7:45 am  and 8:15 am .  The Warriors will be using an earlier shuttle at 6 am so they can 
be wrapped at the ʻIolani Palace Barracks. 
iv. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  – Kehaulani reported  they will  be 
holding  their  Hoʻolauleʻa  at Huiheʻe  at 11 am  on Aliʻi Drive .  They  are still 
looking  for Pāʻū  riders  so please direct anyone interested  to her .  
v. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻa) -- K ēhau reported  they  will be  
participating  in the Lei Draping. 
vi. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Napuʻunoa  
reported  they  will be  participating  in the Lei Draping. 
vii. Kapahulu  Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  will be  providing oli  on 
behalf  of the Commission  and all Commissioners  who  are present  should go  to the 
side near  the emcee announc ement  area at the end of the third  verse of  Hawaiʻi  
Ponoʻī .   
viii. Waimānalo Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
ix. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.   
x. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xi. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  reported  that she saw a clip 
on the  news  which  was great,  and she reposted  on her facebook page . 
xii. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Lyah  Kama- Drake)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xiii. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
xiv. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
VII. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday, July 12, 2022, from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VIII. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  7:14 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/KKCC_2022-04-12_Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA  
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL 
SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI  96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:    Tuesday, April  12, 2022  
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:  Zoom and State  Foundation on Culture and the  Arts Multipurpose Room  
 
 
Commission  Attendees:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā 
Ali‘i), Kēhau  Pe‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu ), 
Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui ), Puake‘ ala Mann  (Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  
Warriors,  Māmakakaua) , Kimo  Alama  Keaulana  (Kapahulu Music  Club),  Napuʻunoa  Crabbe  
(Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association),  and Desiree Moana Cruz (Island  of Hawai‘i ) 
 
Attendees:   Manu  Powers  (Daughters  of Hawaiʻi),  Beverly  Lee (Volunteer  Equestrian  Chair),  
Clint  Kalaola with  Tidal  Wave Productions  (Volunteer  Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair) , Faith  
Kalamau, ( Papakōlea Community ), and Madis on Coburn, Student.   
  
Not present:  Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina  (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Denise Kaʻaʻa (Waimānalo  
Hawaiian  Homestead  Association) , Lyah  Kama- Drake (Island  of Kaua‘i) , Vacant  (Papakōlea  
Community  Association), Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i),  Vacant  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  
Association ).    
 
I. Call to Order , establish  quorum  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:09 p.m. by  Ian Custino, 
Vice- Chai r.  Chair  Kainoa Daines  joined and  then  proceeded  to conduct  the roll call.  
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum  was established.   The  
February  and March  meeting  minutes  were approved.   
III. Public  Testimony  -- None .    
IV. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy  Hammond)  -- Amy  reminded  Commissioners  that the 
governor  issued  an “Emergency  Proclamation  Related  to Sunshine  Law  for In-Person  
Meetings,”  which  suspends  the requirement  for remote  meetings  to have  at least  one in-
person meeting  location  until late March  2022.  Commissioners  were reminded  that their  
video must  be on thro ughout  the meeting,  while  public  attendee videos  do not. Please be  
sure to announce  themselves,  speak  slowly, be  concise and  address  only relevant  
   
information.  In  addition, when  attending virtually,  commissioners  should announce  anyone  
present  in their  residence.  Amy  noted she  completed  the regularly  required  DAGS  
administrative  duties  and tasks  including completing  the quarterly  inventory, revenue  
estimate  reports,  governor’s  goal  and achievement  report.  She participated  in a series  of 
meetings  with  HTA,  ABC  Mouse, Senator  Taniguchi’s  Office,  Mana Comics,  Kanu  
Hawaiʻi, Mayor’s  Office of Culture  and the Arts,  ‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu to  determine  
protocol  for statue  lei removal  following Lei  Draping. Amy  drafted  and posted  the 
procurement  document  for Logistics  Coordinator  in order  to allocate our  HTA  grant  
funding.  She work ed with  HTA and  the Attorney  General’s  office  to complete  the contract  
language  for funding and  secure the  insurance  requirements  for the  grant.  She provided 
information  to all events  regardi ng the  process  to receive the  HTA funding.  Amy  completed  
the applications  for Individuals, Parade,  Mōʻī and Pāʻū. She note d that  we have a  new  
website : KamehamehaDay.Hawaii.Gov .  She submitted  testimony  for c ommission  
candidates : Napuʻunoa  Crabbe  and Ian Custino.  She  provided sample  testimony  and 
instructions  to commissioners  for submitting  their  testimony  in support  of Ian and 
Napuʻunoa  and were  approved.  Amy  also met with  the mayor’s  office to  secure 
sponsorship and  invite d the  mayor to attend  the events.    
V. KKCC Business 
i. Executive Committee  Report  -- Kainoa  and Amy  met with  ABC  Mouse  and Mana 
Comics  to develop a  keiki  program.   
ii. Vote  to form  an Investigative  Committee  to create a Friends  of King  Kamehameha  
Celebration  Organization  -- Kainoa  explained  that there may  be an opportunity for 
commissioners , whose  terms  are retiring , to continually support  the efforts  of the 
commission  by participating  in this potential  organization.  A  vote  was held  and 
approved to create an  investigative  committee ; a name for the  committee  will als o be 
determined . The  formation  of a Friends  of King  Kamehameha Celebr ation 
organization  will be  discussed  further.  Napuʻunoa  volunteered to  chair  the 
investigative  committee.    
iii. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Ian reported  there no changes  since  last month .  
Amy  previously sent  the sponsorship letter  and package  and will resend  to everyone. 
Please refer  to our shared  folder.  We are building a  contact  list so  please refer to  it to 
ensure  there are  no duplications . Please use  the sample  letter  and package  to send  out 
information  to your  potential  donors.  
i. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Amy  will resend  the sponsorship 
information  or share the  link with  everyone .  Add potential  donor ’s name and 
use the sample  letter  to send  out to your  contacts  and please follow  up with  
them  when  its sent. 
iv.  Comm ittee Reports   
i. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Manu  reported  that a couple  of bills  are in  play , 
HB1785 about  tourism  management , and a few other s she is aware of .  A 
legislative  hearing  was held  for approval  of Napuʻunoa  Crabbe  and Ian 
Custino ’s commission  seat is planned for March  14 but will most  likely  be 
rescheduled.   Other  hearings  are yet  to be scheduled  for the  incoming 
commission  appointments.   
ii. Statuary  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Desiree reported  that Keke Kaniho, from  
Kohala  who  does  the protocol  for Kohala  and Hilo , and  Micah Kamo hoaliʻi    
will be  shar ing their  manaʻ o on establish ing best  practices  for the  Lei 
Draping Ceremonies .  In Hilo,  Kum u Moses Crabbe  does  a welcome and  oli 
for everyone  who  comes  up to  the statue  and does  an introduction for 
everyone  on the  mound.  Desiree recommend ed and Ian echoed  for someone  
to do this  for the  Oʻahu Lei Draping as  well.   Kimo  reported  that Kapahulu 
Music  Club had  assisted  with  lei draping many  years  ago.  He  noted that  
Adaline  Lee’s  daughter , Candice, provided Kimo  with documents  when  
Adaline  passed .  He  will research  and share these with the commission  
following the  event  this year.   Ian noted that  we would like  to have  someone , 
like Elijah , a past Lei Draping Ceremony  assistant,  to greet  those  who  present  
lei at the ceremony.   We need  to keep  in mind  the balance of  cultural  and 
time constraint s.  Desiree  shared  that in 2021 Elijah  showed up at  the statue  
in a malo  to receive the  lei and eventually  Kainoa  assigned  him to assist.   
Kainoa  suggested that  we be opened  to creating  roles  for people  to participate  
in the Lei Draping Ceremonies.   Ian agreed  and reiterated  that we embrace 
his participation  as perhaps  a Sergeant  at Arms.  This  is something that  could 
be incorporated into  the duties  of the potential  new  organization, Friends  of 
the King  Kamehameha Celebration , or within  the Statuary  Committee .  
Kainoa,  Desiree and Amy  will hold a  meeting .  Amy  is developing some  
security  protocol s.  Previously we  have  had a security  presence in  the past 
from  Papakōlea. It is important to  identify acceptable behavior  and hoʻokupu 
in the protocols .   
iii. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau  thanked  
Napuʻunoa  Crabbe  for being confirmed  for his  first term  and Ian Custino for 
his second  term.   The  contact  information  in the shared  folder  was updated  to 
reflect  Napuʻunoa’ s information .  Currently  there are five  commission  seats  
available to  fill.  She  acknowledged  the passing of  our Molokaʻi  
Commissioner,  Heli  Silva  Ducaro y, who  passed  and her  seat is vacant.   Also,  
Lyah, our  Kauaʻ i Commissioner ’s seat will expire  on June  30 and  will not 
renew.   We are awaiting  response  from  her suggested replacement  nominee, 
Kimo  Perry.   She  recognize d Faith  from  the Papakōlea Community  who  was 
at the meeting , noting that  their  seat was still vacant,  yet they’re  appreciated  
for their  support  and participation  in the Oʻahu  Lei Draping Ceremony.  She  
commented  that Denise Kaʻaʻa ’s application  is still in  progress  for 
Waimānalo  Homestead ; she is just awaiting  a letter  from  the board  presi dent 
once  their  board elections  occur  in May . She  noted, the  Lānaʻi Seat  is still 
vacant  and has been  for approximately 5 years . Kainoa  mentioned that  a 
contact  from  Lānaʻi has noted that  they  have  prioritized  putting the  Pineapple  
Festival  together  and is interested  in possibly participating  in 2023.  Manu  
noted that  for Kauaʻi  she may have  some  persons  of interest  from  the 
Daughters  of Hawaiʻi . 
iv. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  – Kimo  had responded to  a request  
from  Paula Allen  with  the San Antonio Express  News  and wanted  to confirm  
the Kamehameha Day  Queen  from  1920.  He  worked with  the archivists  at 
Punahou School  and it turns  out that she was the Kamehameha Day  Queen  in 
1940.  He  was able to  identify  a few newspaper  articles  with  a variety  of 
information.   
v. Events     
1. Kauaʻi  Lei Draping/Hoʻolauleʻa (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -- Per Kimo  
Perry,  they  are planning to  do the  Hoʻolauleʻa.   They  are just  awaiting  
the event  approval  permit.   Kainoa  commented  that he understood 
that the Pride  Parade was permitted  so hoping that  we everything will 
move  along.  
2. Oʻahu   
a. Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair ) 
-- Clint reported  that everything is  moving along.  We are just  
working with  the city to secure the  Neal  Blaisdell and  are 
awaiting  word  if the venue  is locking dow n.  He  noted that  the 
ball is rolling  on the  DOD site  on 22nd Avenue  for the float  
dismantling  area.  He  is also finalizing  the vendor  application  
to go out  shortly for the  Hoʻolauleʻa  to be held  on Saturday, 
June 11, from  11 a .m. – 4 p.m . at the Queen  Kapiʻolani Park  
instead  of Aloha  Tower  Marketplace.  Like  previous  years,  it 
will include  merchandise  vendors, information al booths, 
entertainment,  and cultural  activities.   The parade committee  
met and are finalizing  the parade application.   Also,  it was  
noted that  the Convention Center  is unavailable  this year  for 
float building and  we are seeking  a new  building location.    
b. Pāʻū  Units  (Beverly  Lee,  Equestrian  Chair)  -- Beverly  
reported  that we have horses  for all  the islands  and the Pāʻū  
Queen .This year  we will have  four  horses  per unit which  will 
include  Page,  Princess,  one escort  and one attendant.  She has 
also secured  a State  Banner  Page and  is continuing to  work  on 
securing  horses  for the  last island.  The  lack  of horses  is due to 
Gunstock Ranch’s  inability  to rent their  horses  this year.  
Many  of the horses  from  various  ranches  have died or  been  
sold.  North  Shore  Stables  will provide  a unit and each  rider  is 
to pay $1,700 per  horse . Challenges  occur  but they are 
working through them.  A verbal  agreement  was made for the  
pāʻū units  to stage at  the ʻIolani  Palace Grounds  and for pāʻū  
drapers  to wrap  at Kanaʻina  Building.  The Queen  has her 
eight  islands  and we have all  of the islands  filled.   They  will 
be meeting  this Saturday.  
c. Statue  Lei Draping (Louise  Alina)  -- She  announced that  they  
have  a new  board but the planning is  in progress, and  we are 
on target.   
3. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- It was announced that  
Molokaʻi  Commissioner,  Heli  Silva  Ducaroy , passed  away  and 
services  will be  at St. Augustine  Church for visitation  on April  30 at  
7:45 a .m. – 9:45 a .m., services  at 10 a .m. On May  7, from  8 a.m. – 10 
a.m. visition  will also  be held on Molokaʻi . Amy  will follow  up and  
distribute  information  to everyone.  Moani  noted that  the Parade and 
Hoʻolauleʻa  will be  on the  same date on June  4.  Daryl  was on 
Molokaʻi  and met with  potential  replacement  candidates.  
4. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  
reported  they  had 28 participants  at a meeting  held  on March  30 to     
advise  the public  that the parade is  happening and  gathering interest.  
Daryl  also did a  presentation  rearding  hoʻolauleʻa.  On April 9 Moani  
held an equestrian  event  and meeting  with  two full units  where the  
first-time riders  practiced  pāʻū  wrapp ing and  rode  around so  they  
could see what  it was  like.  She  noted that  they  have  a facebook page 
2022 Maui  Kamehamha Pāʻū Parade with photos  posted.  They  also 
have  a workshop on April  30 on learn  how  to do hair,  body lei,  and 
bursts  host ed at the Maui  Community  College.        
5. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
6. Island  of Hawaiʻi   
a. Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei  Draping/Parade/  
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree  Moana  Cruz)  -- Manu  Power  reported  
that they  held  a parade committee  meeting  this evening and  a 
hoʻolauleʻa  at Huliheʻ e this morning and  are in  full planning 
mode.  They  have  the mayor ’s approval  and plans  are moving 
forward  and permits  have  been  secured.   A Pāʻū  Workshop 
with be held  at the Kona  Historical Society  with  the date to  be 
determined.   Manu  noted  they  have  all units  in place and  she 
will be  riding this  year  in the parade in  Kona .  She  mentioned 
that unfortunately they  would not  be sending anyone  to 
Kohala  this year  for the  Lei Draping Ceremony.  Kainoa  
mentioned that  he was told that in Kohala  the street  closure  is 
only for one  hour  and every  minute  over  that time  there i s a. 
$100 fine  from  the county. 
b. Kona Lei  Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa  (Manu  Powers)  -- 
Kehaulani  reported  they are focus ed on additional  funding and  
social  media.   They  have a new  chairperson  for Hoʻolauleʻa 
and will be  holding the  event  on the  grounds  of Huliheʻe  
Palace.   Also,  they  have secured  six horses  per island  and will 
have  many  new  riders  to participate  this year.  
7. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- 
We will be  posting a  list of  museums  and art galleries  on our  website  
that are planning to  host  tributes  to King  Kamehameha during the  
month of  June.  Also,  we are working with  ABC  Mouse  to create 
programming in  June  on King  Kamehameha.   We  are working with  
the Honolulu Star -Advertiser  to create an  Anniversary  publication 
and distribute  to 150,000 – 200,000 residences  on Oʻahu  and at least  
4,000 overprints  that will be  distributed  to the neighbor  island s.  This  
will feature historical ba ckground and  coverage on  all of the events  
on all  islands.  
VI.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
i. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Kainoa  reported  they had the first 
in-person meeting.  
ii.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  -- March  was their anniversary month ; they  
held a service at  Kawai ahaʻo Church, decorat ed Mauna  ʻAla and gathered  for a  
luncheon.  Louise  reported  that they held  elections  and voted in  a new  board  to begin 
in April.   The position of  President  remains  the same.    
iii. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.     
iv. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  – 
Puakeʻala reported  that their future  general  membership  meeing s                                                                                                                                                                                                               
will be  held  next  month on the  second  Saturda ys in the future.  
v. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- They’re  continually w orking on 
Hoʻolauleʻa and  parade.       
vi. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻa) -- This  Saturday  is the quarterly  
meeting.   The y have  a petition  from  a new  civic club: The Princess  Ruth – sponsored 
by Kalihi Palama. 
vii. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa  Crabbe)  -- Napuʻunoa  
reported  the Oahu  Regent  meeting  will be  held  in two weeks.   He noted that  they  
plan to present  lei at the statue .                             
viii. Kapahulu  Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ix. Waimānalo Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant ) – Nothing to  report. 
x. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Faith  Kalamau  reported  that  
Lilia  and Faith  are just kōkua  for the  Papakōlea Community , as it has  been  
challenging to  communicate  with  the Papakōlea  Community  Association.  She noted 
that they  currently have  young men  that are interested  in participatin g.  They  are 
excited  to return .  Last  year  there were six  young men.   It was suggested that  we 
increase to  eight  participants  so we can switch  them  out to reduce fatigue.   They  plan  
to wear  black  slacks  and aloha  shirt.  We are hopeful  that in the future  we can have  
the young men  wear  malo  and kīhei.The goal  down is  to have  the young men  wear  a 
malo  and kīhei as this is what  is worn  in Hilo  and Kohala  and what  the King  is 
wearing . The  malo  would have  a flap in front  and back  and a kīhei that is more  
modest. Desiree inquired  if it was  possibl e to have  them  wear  a short  solid  pants  
with kihei  and solid  shirt.   A traditional uniformed  look will help  to establish  a more  
official  presence as  well.   If the  young men  agree,  we will provide  the clothing .  If 
they wear  the malo  they  would keep  it and  the kīhei would be  returned  to the 
commission .  We are looking to  establish  a tradition  with  the young men  who  can be 
proud that  they  are part  of the ceremony .  Kēhau  suggested that  possibly ʻ Anakala 
Eric Keaw e, who  wears  a malo  in the community, may be someone  to pursue  to 
provide  a workshop.  Puakeʻala p raised  the young men from  last year  and was 
grateful  that they  are willing  to participate  this year.   Faith  said she will provide  
snacks , water  and fruit.   She was also interested  in enter ing a  Papakōlea equestrian  
unit and trolley  and noted they  plan  to participate  in the Lei Draping C eremony as  
well.   
xi. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xii. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  reported  that Maui  would 
like the equestrian  units  from  Maui  to present  lei at the Oʻahu  Lei Draping 
Ceremony.  She  plans  to assist  on Friday  and Saturday.   Amy  will research  on 
reimbursement  for the  cost of Moani ’s attend ance.    
xiii. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Lyah  Kama-Drake)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xiv. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
xv. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
VII. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday, May  10, 2022, from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VIII. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  7:30 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/KKCC_2022_03-08_Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI  96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:    Tuesday, March  8, 2022  
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine  Law  has been  suspended due  to COVID -19’s gathering restrictions ; the meeting  
took place via  Zoom.  
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina  (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Kēhau 
Pe‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu), Moanike‘ala 
Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui) . 
 
Attendees:   Denise Kaʻaʻa  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association) , Beverly  Lee 
(Volunteer  Equestrian  Chair),  Clint  Kalaola  with  Tidal  Wave Productions  (Volunteer  Parade Co -
Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair) , Mark  Cra bbe (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association) . 
 
Not present:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  Heli Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi)  and 
Desiree Moana Cruz (Island  of Hawai‘i ), Kimo  Alama  Keaulana (Kapahulu Music  Club), Lilia  
Kapuniʻai  (Papakōlea Community  Association) , Lyah  Kama -Drake (Island  of Kaua‘i) , Ian 
Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Manu  Powers  (Daughters  of Hawaiʻi),  Vacant  (Kamehameha Schools  
Alumni  Association), Vacant  (Papakōlea  Community  Association), Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i),  
Vacant  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association ). 
 
I. Call to Order , establish  quorum  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:07 p.m. by  Amy  Hammond, 
Executive  Director.   
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum  was not established.   The  
February  meeting  minutes  will be  tabled  until  next  meeting.      
III. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy  Hammond)  -- Amy  reminded  Commissioners  that the 
Governor  issued  an “Emergency  Proclamation  Related  to Sunshine  Law  for In-Person  
Meetings,”  which  suspends  the requirement  for remote  meetings  to have  at least  one in-
person meeting  location  until late March  2022.  Commissioners  were reminded  that their  
video must  be on throughout  the meeting,  while  public  attendee videos  do not. Please be  
sure to announce  themselves,  speak  slowly, be  concise and  address  only relevant  
information.  In  addition, when  attending virtually,  Commissioners  should announce  anyone  
present  in their  residence.  Amy  noted she  completed  the regularly  requi red DAGS  
   
administrative  duties  and tasks  and attended  the monthly DAGS  meeting  as well  as HTA 
meetings.  Amy  was able to complete  her procurement  training  to obtain HiPro  procurement  
status.   She  was also able  to work  with  HTA and  the Attorney General’s  office to  complete  
the contract  for funding and secure the  insurance  requirements  for the  grant. 
IV. KKCC Business 
i. Executive Committee  Report  -- Kainoa  and Amy  met with  ABC  Mouse, a  website  
that receives  200,000 viewers  per day.  We  will be  working with  them  on some  keiki  
programming.  We also met with  Mana Comics  who  is doing a  comic  about  the early  
years  of King  Kamehameha.   
ii. Vote  to form  an Investigative  Committee  to create a Friends  of King  Kamehameha  
Celebration  Organization  -- Due  to the lack  of quorum  the vote  to create an  
investigative  committee  was table  until  the next  meeting.  
iii. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Amy  reported  on behalf  of Ian that there are no 
change s since  last month . 
i. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Amy  reported  the sponsorship 
proposal  is forthcoming.  
iv.  Comm ittee Reports   
i. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- A  legislative  hearing  for approval  of Ian’s  
Commission  seat is planned  for March  14, but  will most  likely  be 
rescheduled.   Other  hearings  are yet  to be scheduled  for the  incoming 
Commission  appointments.  
ii. Statuary  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report.  
iii. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau  thanked  Mark  
Crabbe  for following through with  his application  for the  KSAA seat.   She  
commented  that everyone  incuding Denise Kaʻaʻa ’s application  is still in  
progress  for Waimānalo  Homestead  and the Lānaʻi seat is still vacant.  Lyah, 
Kauaʻi Commissioner,  will not  renew  her seat and we are awaiting  response  
from  her suggested replacement  nominee, Kimo  Perry.  
iv. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
v. Events  
1. Kauaʻi  Lei Draping/Hoʻolauleʻa (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -- Nothing to  
report.  
2. Oʻahu   
a. Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair ) 
-- Clint reported  that the Hoʻolauleʻa  will be  held  on Saturday, 
June 11, from  11 am  – 4 pm at the Queen  Kapiʻolani Park  
instead  of Aloha  Tower  Marketplace.  Like  previous  years,  it 
will include  merchandise  vendors, information al booths, 
entertainment,  and cultural  activities.   The parade committee  
met and are finalizing  the parade application.   Also,  it was  
noted that  the Convention Center  is unavailable  this year  for 
float building and  we are seeking  a new  building location .    
b. Pāʻū  Units  (Beverly  Lee,  Equestrian  Chair)  -- Beverly  
reported  that currently  our Pāʻū  Queen  and seven  of our eight  
island  units  have  secured  horses. This  year  we will have  four  
horses  per unit which  will include  Page,  Princess,  one escort  
and one attendant.  She has also secured  a State  Banner  Page    
and is continuing to  work  on securing  horses  for the  last 
island.  The  lack of horses  is due to Gunstock Ranch’s  
inability  to rent their  horses  this year.  Many  of the horses  from  
various  ranches  have died or  been  sold.  North  Shore  Stables  
will provide  a unit and each  rider  is to pay $1,700 per horse . 
Challenges  occur  but they are working through them.  A verbal  
agreement  was made for the pāʻū  units  to stage at  the ʻIolani  
Palace Grounds  and for pāʻū  drapers  to wrap  at Kanaʻina  
Building .  
c. Statue  Lei Draping (Louise  Alina)  -- Planning is  in progress, 
with nothing new  to report.    
3. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Heli  Silva)  -- Nothing to  report.  
4. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  
reported  that a public  meeting  will be  held  at the College.   They  will 
have all  eight  islands represented,  with  six horses  in each  unit.  They  
have  collaborated  with  the polo community  and will add  a polo 
match  on June  18.  She  also inquired if  Oʻahu  is approved for having 
vendors  at the Hoʻolauleʻa as  the County has  restricted  them  for 
Maui . Clint advised  he has not had any objections  at the time.    
5. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
6. Island  of Hawaiʻi   
a. Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei  Draping/Parade/  
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree  Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report.  
b. Kona Lei  Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa  (Manu  Powers)  -- 
Kehaulani  reported  they are focusing on additional  funding 
and social  media.   They  have  a new  chairperson  for 
Hoʻolauleʻa  and will be  holding the  event  on the  grounds  of 
Huliheʻe  Palace.   Also,  they  have  secured  six horses  per island  
and will ha ve many  new  riders  to participate this  year.  
7. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- 
Amy  reported  for Kainoa  and Desiree that  they  have  been  working to  
secure a variety  of museums  and art galleries  to host  tributes  to King  
Kamehameha.   The  Volcano Arts  Center  will be  hosting an  art 
contest.  Please see their  website  for additional  information.  Once 
finalized,  a list of  activities  will be  posted on the  KKCC  website.    
V.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
i. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Amy  reported  on behalf  of Kainoa  
that the Royal  Order  agreed  to absorb the  balance of float -building costs  to 
accommodate our  budget.  
ii.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  -- Louise  reported  that they held elections  
and voted in  a new board  to begin in  April.   The  position of  President  remains  the 
same.    
iii. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.  
iv. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- 
Nothing t o report.  
v. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kehaulani announced they will be 
holding  a celebration on March 17  in rememberance of Kauikeaouli, King 
Kamehameha III , at Kauikeaouli Stone, Keauhou Bay at 9:15 am .  They are working    
with Kamehameha Schools , Royal Order  of Kamehameha, Hawai ʻi Civic Club s and 
local hā lau to collaborate  on the  celebration.    
vi. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻa) -- The Hawaiian  Civic  Club of  
Honolulu will be  hosting an event  to recognize  the 151st  birthday of  Prince Kūhiō on 
March  26 at  Mauna  ʻAla.  There will also  be events  via Lei Aliʻi to honor  Kūhiō 
throughout  the month of  March.    
vii. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni Asso ciation  (Vacant)  -- Mark  Crabbe,  who  will be  
joining the  Commission  was welcomed.  
viii. Kapahulu  Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ix. Waimānalo Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Denise Ka ʻaʻa) -- Denise noted  they  
hope  to get involved with  Prince K ūhiō’s birthday celebration .  The  organization is  
looking to  elect  a new  board  and amend  some  bylaws  at the next  March  21 meeting.   
Elections  rescheduled  from  January  will take place  in either  April  or May.   
x. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xi. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xii. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  reported  the Maui  Pāʻū  
Queen , Ashley  Branco , has ridden for eight  consecutive  years.   Hats off to  her as she 
would have  ridden in 2020 if  COVID -19 did not  occur . In 2021, she  did not  
participate  in the virtual  parade, but  she is looking forward  to completing  her 
pāʻū journey in  2022.  The  upcoming a ssistance  by the Polo community  is a 
substantial  reason  for adding a  polo match  to their  festivities.     
xiii. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Lyah  Kama- Drake)  -- Nothing to  report   
xiv. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Heli  Silva)  -- Nothing to  report.  
xv. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
VI. Public  Testimony  -- None. 
VII. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday, April  12, 2022, from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VIII. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  6:55 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/KKCC_2022_02-08_Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
,          DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI ʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday, February  8, 2022 
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine  Law  has been  suspended due  to COVID -19’s gathering restrictions ; the meeting  
took place via  Zoom.  
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  
Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina  (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Kimo  Alama  Keaulana  (Kapahulu Music  Club), 
Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu) , Puake‘ ala Mann  (Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  
Māmakakaua),  Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui) , Heli Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi)  
and Desiree Moana Cruz (Island  of Hawai‘i ). 
 
Attendees:   Beverly  Lee (Volunteer  Equestrian  Chair),  Clint  Kalaola  with  Tidal  Wave Productions  
(Volunteer  Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair) , Julian  Keikilani Ako  (Kamehameha Schools  
Alumni  Association)  and Manu  Powers  (Daughters  of Hawaiʻi) . 
 
Not present:  Lilia  Kapuniʻai  (Papakōlea Community  Association) , Denise Kaʻaʻa  (Waimānalo  
Hawaiian  Homestead  Association) , Lyah  Kama- Drake (Island  of Kaua‘i) , Kēhau Pe‘a (Assn.  of 
Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs) , Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Vacant  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  
Association), Vacant  (Papakōlea  Community  Association), Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i)  and Vacant  
(Waim ānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association ). 
 
I. Call to Order , establish  quorum  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:07 p.m. by  Kainoa  Daines,  
Chair.   
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum  was established.   The  
meeting  minutes  were approved for November  2021, December  2021, and  January  2022.     
III. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy  Hammond)  -- Amy  reminded  Commissioners  that the 
Governor  issued  an “Emergency  Proclamation  Related  to Sunshine  Law  for In-Person  
Meetings,”  which  suspends  the requirement  for remote  meetings  to have  at least  one in-
person meeting  location  until late March  2022.  Commissioners  were reminded  that their  
video must  be on throughout  the meeting,  while  public  attendees  do not. Please be  sure  to 
announce  themselves,  speak  slowly, be  concise an d address  only relevant  information.  In 
addition, when  attending virtually,  Commissioners  should announce  anyone  present  in their  
   
residence.   Amy  noted she  completed  the regularly  required  DAGS  administrative  duties  
and tasks  and attended  the monthly DAGS  meeting  as well  as HTA meetings.   Also,  the 
State  Foundation on Culture  and the Arts  (SFCA)  will be  hosting a  more  robust  website  and 
be providing our  updates.   A link will be  sent a link for review.  
IV. KKCC Business 
i. Executive Committee  Report  -- Kainoa  and Amy  met with  ABC  Mouse, a  website  
that receives  200,000 viewers  per day.  We  will be  working with  them  on some  keiki  
programming.  Also,  we are considering to  set up a Friends  of King  Kamehameha 
Celebration  similar  to that of the Friends  of the Library.   This  would be  in support  of 
our overall  mission.   A vote  to create an  investigative  committee  will be  added  to the 
agenda  for the  next  meeting.     
ii. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Kainoa  reported  on behalf  of Ian noting that  the 
balance has  not changed  from  last month.  
i. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Kainoa  reported  on behalf  of Ian 
that HTA has  awarded  us statewide  funding in  the amount  of $150,000 of  
which  the original  request  was $375,000.  Amy  asked  each  island  to update  
their funding request  last week  via email  and essentially  those  revised  
amounts  have  been  approved by the  Executive  Committee.   Amy  will be  
reaching  out to all funded recipients  individually to  review the amounts  and 
process.   Also,  a budget  and draft  sponorship letters  are in  the shared  folder  
for review.   We plan  to post  a sponsorship fundraising list for everyone  to 
sign up to  pursue  their  contacts  as we want  to avoid duplication.  We hope  to 
engage  sponsors  statewi de initially  and then  pursue  fundraising to  fill the  
gaps as needed  per island.  For  example,  currently  Kainoa  is working with  
Kauʻi  Burgess  to secure funding from  Kamehameha Schools.  But  that is a 
different  pot of funds  than, for example,  in Maui  Nui which can also be 
pursued.  Let’s  be sure  to coordinate  the requests  and check  the shared  folder  
for fundraising pursuit  list prior  to reaching  out to sponsors.  
iii.  Comm ittee Reports   
i. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Nothing to  report.  
ii. Statuary  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report.  
iii. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- Kehaulani  announced  
that we are still seeking  candidates  for the  vacant  positions. She  also thanked 
Julian  Ako  from  KSAA for  continuing to  pursue  someone  to replace 
nominee, Kāwika  Trask,  who is unable  to participate.  
iv. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
v. Events  
1. Kauaʻi  Lei Draping/Hoʻolauleʻa (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -- Nothing to  
report.  
2. Oʻahu   
a. Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair ) 
-- Parade Committee  met and revised  the original  budget.  
Clint announced that  he is currently  working to  secure Aloha  
Tower  Marketplace as  the venue  for the  Hoʻolauleʻa  but is 
still awaiting  a response.  Also,  it was  noted that  we were not  
able to  secure the  Convention Center  as it is unavailable  this 
year for float  building, so  we are looking for a  location.       
b.  Pāʻū  Units  (Beverly  Lee,  Equestrian  Chair)  -- Nothing to  
report.  
c. Statue  Lei Draping (Louise  Alina)  -- Planning is  in progress, 
with nothing new  to report.    
3. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Heli  Silva)  -- Heli advised  she is 
awaiting  approval  of events’  permits  and may  need  to make 
adjustments  but promises  that the activities  will still be  fabulous.  
4. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- The 
Maui  Committee  met in January  and they  have  selected  a Pāʻū  Queen. 
They  meet  on the  third  Thursday of  each  month.  They  are still 
awaiting  approval  for their  permit but  have  been  notified  by the  
County that  vendors  are not authorized.  However,  they  to plan  to 
proceed  with the parade.     
5. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
6. Island  of Hawaiʻi   
a. Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei  Draping/Parade/  
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree  Moana  Cruz)  -- Desiree advised  that for 
the last two years  they  have  not been  permitted  to gather  
officially  for the  Hilo or Kohala  Lei Draping Ceremonies,  
however, individuals  did privat ely gather  to celebrate King  
Kamehameha Day  beautifully.  Currently  private  citizens  are 
planning to  hold unofficial  activities  and if restrictions  are not  
lifted,  activities  will continue  to be private.    
b. Kona Lei  Draping/Parade/  Hoʻolauleʻa  (Manu  Powers)  --
Manu  noted  they  had  a Kona  Parade Committee  Meeting.    
She commented  that she  had  met  with  the Mayor  and  have  
his blessing  to model  the King  Kamehameha  Day  
Celebration activities  accordingly  with  the Merrie 
Monarch  Festival.  
7. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- 
Nothing new  to report  
V.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
i. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Kainoa  will ask  the organization 
to absorb the  float -building costs  to accommodate  our budget.  
ii.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu  (Louise  Alina)  -- Louise  reported  they  are in the  
planning  stages  for their  celebration in March  for Queen Kaʻahumanu  at Mauna 
Ala. 
iii. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.  
iv. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --  
Nothing to  report.  
v. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kehaulani announced the  “Muʻu at 
the Museum”  event  was a success.   “A Day at Huliheʻe Palace”  on Hawaiʻi Island  is 
coming up on February 12.  Also, if you would like to purchase a subscription box in 
support of the organization they are still available .    
vi. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Pēʻa) -- Nothing to  report . 
vii. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni Association  (Vacant)  -- Julian  Ako  advised  he is 
working on securing  a candidate  for the  Commission  seat.   The  KSAA Board  of    
Trustees  held  a meeting  on January  26 and  have secured  three outstanding wahine  
finalists.  
viii. Kapahulu  Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  advised  he reached  out to 
the Punahou Band  to participate in  the parade.   They  indicated  they  are not  able to  
participate  this year  due to COVID but  would love  to participate  in 2023.   
ix. Waimānalo Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
x. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report . 
xi. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Desiree inquired about  funding for malo  
and kīhei  to assist  in the Lei Draping Ceremonies.   Amy  noted that  funds  were 
already  allocated  for these items  and recommended that  they  connect  offline  to 
determine  estimates  and suppliers.  She  also asked  if funds  were available it would 
be good to  include  kāhili  into the Lei Draping Ceremonies . 
xii. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Considering adding a  polo match  
to their  festivities.   Moani  announced that  on February  23 there are a  contingent  
from  Miss R odeo Hawaiʻi  that will go to  Miss Rodeo  in Texas.   
xiii. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Lyah  Kama- Drake)  -- Nothing to  report   
xiv. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Heli  Silva)  -- Nothing to  report.  
xv. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
VI. Public  Testimony  -- None. 
VII. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday, March  8, 2022, from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VIII. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned  at 6:55 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/KKCC-1.11.22-Meeting-Minutes-FINAL.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI ʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday, January  11, 2022 
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine  Law  has been  suspended due  to COVID -19’s gathering restrictions ; the meeting  
took place via  Zoom.  
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  
Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina , (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Kimo  Alama  Keaulana,  (Kapahulu Music  Club),  
Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Kēhau Pe‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Desiree Moana 
Cruz  (Island  of Hawai‘i ) and Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu).  
 
Attendees:   Beverly  Lee,  (Volunteer  Equestrian  Chair),  Clint  Kalaola  with  Tidal  Wave 
Productions, (Volunteer  Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair)  
 
Not present:  Puake‘ ala Mann  (Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua),  Lyah  
Kama- Drake (Island  of Kaua‘i) , Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui),  Heli Silva  
(Island  of Molokaʻi), Lilia  Kapuniʻai  (Papakōlea Community  Association) , Julian  Keikilani Ako  
(Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association), Denise Kaʻaʻa  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  
Association) , Manu  Powers , (Daughters  of Hawaiʻi),  Vacant  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  
Association), Vacant  (Papakōlea  Community  Association), Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i)  and Vacant  
(Waim ānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association ). 
 
I. Call to Order  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:07 p.m. by Kainoa  Daines,  Chair.   
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum was  not  established .  
The November  and December  meeting  minutes  were  tabled  until  the next  meeting .  
The Governor  issued  an “Emergency  Proclamation Related  to Sunshine  Law  In-Person 
Meetings,”  whi ch suspends the  requirement for  remote meetings  to have  at least one  
in-person  meeting  location  until  at least February 28,  2022.   Commissioners  were  
reminded  that  they  need  to have  their  videos  on although other  public  attendees  do 
not. Please be sure  to announce themselves,  speak  slowly,  be concise  and  address  only  
relevant information.   In addition,  when  attending  virtually,  Commissioners  should  
announce anyone present in their  residence.   
III. Commission  Reports   
   
a. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Nothing  to repo rt. 
b. Statuary  (Desiree Moana Cruz) --  Desiree announced  that James  and  Mariah  
O’Conner  are also present at her  location.   Nothing  to report.  
c. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and  Kehaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau  reported  that  the 
steps  to apply  for a Commission  seat have  been  uploaded  to the shared  folder.   
She also noted  that  Kāwika  Trask with  Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni  
Association stepping  down  as the nominee for  the Commission  due  to work 
related  challenges.   Kehaulani thanked  Julian Ako  who  advised  he is going  to 
select  a new  representative for  the Commission  by the February meeting.    
d. State  Archives ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  advised  he is going  to the 
Archives  on Monday  to review  some  of their  new  acquisitions  and  hopes  to 
have  more  to report  next month.  
e. Oʻahu  Parade,  Hoʻolauleʻa and Pāʻū  Units  (Clint  Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -
Chair  and  Beverly Lee,  Equestrian Chair) –- Kainoa reported  that t he Oʻahu 
Events  Committ ee met  on Sunday  and  the report  is in the  Commission  shared  
folder.   They  determined  there will  be no Grand  Marshal  this  year  as the 
concensus  is that his  legacy  is everyone  in the  Hawaiian Community  rather  than 
one individual.   Kainoa called  out one  section  in the report  that they  had  
discussed  following  our  last  meeting  in which  Kimo  noted  that the  current  
statewide and  Oʻahu  parade  theme  transalation sounds  as though Kamehameha  
ʻEkahi  is still  alive.   There  was  discussion  regarding  chang ing the theme  to E Ola 
Ka Inoa  ʻO Kamehameha  which  was  agreed  upon.   In a proactive effort  to 
provide  and  implement safety  protocols  for the parade,  Bev erly  Lee  is looking  
into  a COVID  management sponsorship  from  Kaiser  Permanente to  include  
temperature checks,  masks and  social distancing  support.   The  Hoʻolauleʻa  is 
being  planned  for Aloha  Tower Marketplace.   Also,  the planned  May  25 General  
Parade Meeting,  normally  held  at the  State Capitol  will  be moved  to Kapiolani 
Bandstand  to provide  a safe  outdoor  meeting  space.  Awaiting  final  
confirmation on  availablity  of space  from  Kapiolani Park  permitting.  
f. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Kainoa  
reported  we are working with  the DOE  and  several  museums  across  the state to  
celebrate Kamehameha  with  exhibits.  Comfirmations  include:   Kauaʻi Museum,  
Huliheʻe  and  Queen Emma  Summer  Palaces,   ʻIolani  Palace,  Bailey  House  and  
Lymand  House  Museums,  Honolulu  State Art  Museum.   Although 
communications  began in 2020 COVID  has  been hampering  the planning .  We  
are awaiting  information from  the participants  on what  to include  in the  
marketing  materials.  
IV. KKCC  Business  
a. Executive  Director’ s Report  (Amy  Hammond) --  Amy  completed  the regularly 
required  DAG’s  administrative duties  and  tasks  and attended  the monthly  DAGS  
meeting .  We  were  advised  by the State Foundation  on Culture  and  the Arts  
(SFCA) that they  are working on  processing  our  Lei Draping  Funding.   In 
addition,  she  completed  the procurement training  and  is awaiting  procurement 
author ization.  
b. Executive Committee  Report  -- Nothing to  report.   
i. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Ian noted that  the financial  statement  is 
the same as  last meeting .      
ii. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Ian reported  HTA has  awarded  us 
$150,000 of  the $330,000 requested.  Shortly, Ian will advise  of our plan  to 
bridge  the funding gap.  SFCA  has awarded  $50,000 for s tatewide  Lei 
Drapings  for Oʻahu  and Kohala  as KSAA Hilo’s organizing entity  has 
determined  they  will self  fund this year .  Kauʻi Burgess  with  Kamehameha 
Schools  has confirmed  a $10,000 sponsorship.  
V.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
a. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa  has confirmed  that he will 
have  a qualified  replacement  when  his seat expires  and will send  the contact  
information  to the Retention  Committee.   He also confirmed  the organization  has 
committed  to providing a  float  in the Oʻahu Parade.  
b.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu (Louise  Alina)  -- Louise  reported  they  held  their  first in- 
person meeting  and had nominations  for new  board officers.   They  also attended  the 
celebration  for the  Hawaiian  Mission  Houses  Printing Press  and were able to  operate 
the press.  
c. Hale O  Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Ian announced  that longtime  member,  Lauralei  
Castro,  has passed  and her services  will be  held  on Thursday at  Borthwick Chapel  at 
8:45 am.   
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --  
Nothing to  report.  
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kehaulani announced two  events , 
“Muʻu at the Museum” will be held on January 15 from 6 p.m . to 9 p.m . at 
Hānaiakamalama on Oʻahu and they have already sold 100 tickets.  The other is on 
on February 12, “A Day at Huliheʻe Palace”  on Hawaiʻi  Island.    
f. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Pēʻa) -- K ēhau noted that  AHCC  will 
be holding a  virtual  convention the  second  week  of January.  The Board  of Directors  
Retreat  which  was to be an in-person event  has been  postponed.  
g. Kamehameha Schools  Alumni Association  (Vacant ) -- Nothing to  report.  
h. Kapahulu Music  Club ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  advised  he has amassed  134 
newspaper  articles  about  their organization some  of which  are related  to the 
Commission.   These have  been  uploaded to  the shared  folder.    
i. Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report  
VI. Hawaiʻi  Island  Report  (Desiree Moana Cruz) --  Nothing  to report .   
VII. Maui  Report  (Moanikeʻala  Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to  report.     
VIII. Kauaʻi  Report  (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -- Nothing to  report.  
IX. Molokaʻi  Report  (Heli  Silva)  -- Nothing to  report.  
X. Lānaʻ i Report  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
XI. Public  Testimony  – None. 
XII. Miscellaneous  -- Nothing to  report.   
XIII. Upcoming M eeting  -- Tuesday, February  8, 2022, from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
XIV. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned  at 6:32 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/KKCC-12.14.21-Meeting-Minutes-FINAL.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday, December  14, 2021 
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine  Law  has been  suspended due  to COVID -19’s gathering restrictions ; the meeting  
took place via  Zoom.  
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  
Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina , (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Kimo  Alama  Keaulana,  (Kapahulu Music  Club),  
Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Kēhau Pe‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Puake‘ ala Mann  
(Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua) , Desiree Moana Cruz  (Island  of 
Hawai‘i) , Lyah  Kama- Drake (Island  of Kaua‘i) . 
 
Attendees:   Beverly  Lee,  (Volunteer  Equestrian  Chair),  Clint  Kalaola  with  Tidal  Wave 
Productions, (Volunteer  Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair)  
 
Not present:  Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui),  Heli Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi), 
Kaweka  Trask  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association), Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  
Kaʻahumanu), Lilia  Kapuniʻai  (Papakōlea Community  Association) , Julian  Keikilani Ako  
(Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association), Denise Kaʻaʻa  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  
Association) , Manu  Powers , (Daughters  of Hawaiʻi),  Vacant  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  
Association), Vacant  (Papakōlea  Community  Association), Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i)  and Vacant  
(Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association ) 
 
I. Call to Order  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:06 p.m. by Kainoa  Daines,  Chair.   
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum  was not established  and the 
November  meeting  minutes  were tabled  until  the next  meeting .    
III. Executive Director’ s Report  (Amy  Hammond)  – Completed  additional  training  on new  
Sunshine  Law  going into  effect  on January 1st and in-practice immediate ly. Commissioners  
were reminded  to announce  themselves,  speak  slowly,  be concise and address  only relevant  
information.  In  addition, when  attending virtually,  Commissioners  should announce  anyone  
who is present  in their  residence.   Also,  all Commissioners  mus t have  their  videos  on 
although other  attendees  do not.  Amy  completed  the regularly  required  DAG’s  
administrative  duties  and tasks .  She  attended  the bi-monthly DAGS  meeting  and met with  
   
State  Foundation on Culture  and the Arts  (SFCA)  who will be  hosting the  new  KKCC  web  
page , awaiting  additional  revisions.  Attended  ADA training  classes  that outlined  many  rules  
that will impact  all Commissions  with  more  details  to come.   Per the new  Sunshine  Law  we 
plan to hold a  physical  meeting  at the SFCA  building in  January.  Participated  in additional  
procurement  training  and will soon be  certified  to conduct  procurement.   In December,  we 
expect  to hear back  from  the HTA regarding  funding. 
IV. KKCC Business  
a. Executive Committee  Report  -- Nothing to  report.   
i. Financial  Update  (Ian Custino)  – The  financial  statement  is the same as  last 
time.   Ian advised  we will  be using  a shared  Google  Drive  folder  to 
provide  information to  Commissioners  who  can  easily.   Commissioners  
should have  received  an invitation  to the shared  folder.  Once we are able to  
determine  what  funds  we will potentially  receive we will develop a  final  
budget  plan.  Ian reported  an account  balance of  $4,881.76 in  the Kanu  
Hawaiʻi’s fiscal  sponsor  account  and  a balance  in the KKCC  Trust  Fund  
Account  of $35,000.   Kanu  Hawaiʻi funds  are money  that were  part  of 
fundraising  refunded  by CNHA , our  prior fiscal  sponsor . The  funds  in our  
KKCC  State Trust  Account  are from  SFCA . These  are specifically  
earmarked  for the statue and  lei draping’s . These  funds  will  be dispersed  
through  the procure ment  process . Before  Amy  was  hired  there was  no 
one to procure  the funds  which  is why a  fiscal  sponsor  was  assisting . 
ii. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
V.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
a. Royal  Order of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing to  report.  
b.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu (Louise  Alina)  -- Nothing to  report.   
c. Hale O  Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.  
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --  
Nothing to  report.    
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kāhau announced two  new  events , 
“Mu ʻu at the Museum” will be held on January 15 from 6  p.m. to 9  p.m. at 
Hānaiakamalama on O ʻahu and January 22 from 3  p.m.  to 6  p.m.  at Hulihe ʻe 
Palace on Hawaiʻ i Island.  Guests wear  your finest holokū, muʻ umuʻ u, or aloha 
attire for an evening honoring Queen Emma and celebrating fashion during 
Mu'umu'u mont h.  On February 12 they will hold the annual fundraiser at 
Hulihe ʻe Palace, A Day Hulihe ʻe.   
f. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Pēʻa) -- There  was an email  response  
sent from Carol Johnson,  President  from  Nā Lei Makalapua,  Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  - 
Mainland  Council, regarding the possbility  of holding a  King  Kamehameha 
Celebration  to be held  in Las Vegas.  AHCC  will be  holding a  virtual  convention the  
second  week  of January.    
g. Kamehameha Schools  Alumni Association  (Vacant ) -- Nothing  to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music  Club ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Have not  made plans  to meet  until 
after the holidays .  The  organization  has amassed  134 newspaper  articles  about  their 
organization.   They  plan  to review  the articles  and put together  a history of  the 
organization.  
i. Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.     
VI. Hawaiʻi  Island  Report  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report .   
VII. Maui  Report  (Moanikeʻala  Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to  report.     
VIII. Kauaʻi  Report  (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -- Nothing to  report.  
IX. Molokaʻi  Report  (Heli  Silva)  -- Nothing to  report.  
X. Lānaʻ i Report  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
XI. Oʻahu  Report  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Nothing to  report. 
XII. Commission  Reports   
a. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Nothing to  report.  
b. Statuary  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- Desiree met  with  the Kohala  contingency to  
discuss  2022 plans .  The y are excited  to learn  that they  may  be able to  receive  some  
funding. The  Kamehameha S chools  Alumni  Association  Māmalahoe Chapter  met 
and decided  to retain  ownership of  the Hilo  Statue  and KKCC  will continue  to 
support  their  efforts.   
c. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a & Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  – Kehaulani  thanked  Kainoa  for 
the lead  on Lānaʻ i.  Kēhau  thanked Julian  Ako  for submitting  a letter  of support  for 
Kāwika  Trask  so they  can proceed  with his confirmation.  Retention  Committee  
would like  to request  the ability  to add retention  information  which  was agree                                                           
d. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to  report.  
e. Oʻahu  Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa and Pāʻū  Units  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co-Chair  
and Beverly  Lee,  Equestrian  Chair)  -- Nothing to  report.    
f. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  -- Nothing new  to report.  
XIII. Public  Testimony  -- Nothing to  report.  
XIV. Miscellaneous  -- Nothing to  report.   
XV. Upcoming meeting  -- Tuesday, January 11, 2022, from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
XVI. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourne d at 6:36 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/KKCC-11.9.21-Meeting-Minutes-FINAL.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday, November  9, 2021 
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine  Law  has been  suspended due  to COVID -19’s gathering restrictions ; the meeting  
took place via  Zoom.  
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  
Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui),  Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina , (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), 
Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu) , Kimo  Alama  Keaulana, (Kapahulu Music  Club), Ian 
Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Kēhau Pe‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Puake‘ ala Mann  
(Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua)   
 
Also  in attendance:  Manu  Powers  (Daughters  of Hawaiʻi) , Julian  Keikilani Ako  (Kamehameha 
Schools  Alumni  Association), Denise Kaʻaʻa  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association), 
Keone Kealoha (Kanu  Hawaiʻi)  
 
Not present:  Lyah  Kama -Drake (Island  of Kaua‘i),  Desiree Moana Cruz  (Island  of Hawai‘i),  
Heli Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi), K āwika Trask  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association), Lilia  
Kapuniʻai  (Papakōlea Community  Association), Clint  Kalaola  with  Tidal  Wave Productions, 
(Volunteer  Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair),  Beverly  Lee (Volunteer  Equestrian  Chair),  
Vacant  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association), Vacant  (Papakōlea Community  Association), 
Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i)  and Vacant  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association ) 
 
I. Call to Order  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:04 p.m. by Kainoa  Daines,  Chair.   
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum  was established  and the 
October  meeting  minutes  were tabled  until  the next  meeting .    
III. Executive Director’ s Report  -- Reviewed  brief  on new  Sunshine  Law  going into  effect  on 
January  1st and in-practice is  immediate.  Performed  regularly  required  DAG’s  
administrative  duties  and tasks.  Met with  the Comptroller  and Kainoa to  discuss  how  to 
proceed  with our procurement. Re viewed  the new  proposed KKCC  web  page  to be provided 
by hosted by the  State  Foundation on Culture  and the Arts  (SFCA).   Distributed  Retention  
committee  information  and KKCC  Contact  List.   Scheduled  and held  meetings  with  Island  
   
Commissioners  and event  representatives  to secured  the information  and materials  needed  to 
create the  HTA Community  Enrichment  Program  (CEP) Grant  submitted  on November  5.  
The Executive  Committee  met to review  the 2022 plans  with  Maui  Nui,  Kauaʻi, Kona, 
Kohala,  Honolulu and  Hilo.   Hilo initially  planned  to participate  in our statewide  submission 
but at the last minute  chose  to fund themselves .  We expect  to hear  back  on the funding in  
early  December.  
IV.   KKCC Business  
a. Executive Committee  Report  -- Nothing to  report.   
i. Financial  Update  (Keone  Kealoha,  Kanu  Hawaiʻi)  -- Ian reported  an account  
balance of  $4,881.76 in  Kanu  Hawaiʻi’s account .  Keone  canceled  the paper  
statement  to save the  fee. Currently  we have a  balance in  the KKCC  Trust  
Fund Account  of $35,000. Ian  advised  we will be  using a  shared  Google  
Drive  folder  for information  Commissioners  can easily  access  including the  
roles  and responsi bilities,  financials , etc.   As some  of these documents  are 
still being created  it will not  be ready  for the  next  meeting.  
ii. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
V.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
a. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- They  will be  gathering for the  first 
time at the Embassy  Suites  Hotel  in Waikiki  in December.  
b.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu (Louise  Alina)  -- Louise  reported  they  are meeting  live 
monthly at  Bishop Museum.  They  are preparing  to gather  in December  at a location  
to be disclosed  at a later  time.   In January  2022 they plan  to meet  at Bishop Museum.  
They  are beginning their  planning calendar  for 2022.  
c. Hale O  Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- They  plan to return  to in person meetings  in early  
2022. 
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  --  On  the 
16th they  will be  having a  ceremony  at Manua  Ala Kalakaua C rypt, this  is the 57th 
year.   No invitation  is required,  this event  had prev iously been  held  at Iolani  Palace.   
They  are planning their  general  membership  meeting . The last meeting  was in July 
and they  will have  their  next  meeting  in November. 
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- They  are meeting  monthly wi th the 
annual  meeting  on Feb.  28.  They  have  two new  events  to be held  at Huliheʻe  
virtually  and in person on  Feb.  12.  The  also have  the Muʻu Muʻu (name pending)  
that will be  held  on the  Huliheʻ e Palace Grounds  on January  22nd.  
f. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Pēʻa) -- They  were  supposed  to have  
a virtual  convention this  month  but  it has  been moved  to the second  week  of 
January .  The  event will  be just  prior to  the January  20 start of  the Legislative 
Session.   During  the Convention th ey will  hold  meetings  and  discussions 
regarding  proposed  bills  and  policies.  
g. Kamehameha Schools  Alumni Association  (Vacant ) -- Julian  Keikilani Ako  
follow ed up on behalf  of Kāwika . He noted they  held  a virtual  forum  on October  13 
with 204 people  registering. 94 people  attended  at the peak  of the meeting , which  is 
a normal  attendance.  Feedback  was provided using an  online  format  and was 
favorable.  
h. Kapahulu Music  Club ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Beverly  Lee and Kimo  have met  
and are looking forward  and planning for an  in-person  parade this  year.   Kapahulu 
Music  Club will be  meeting  in person sometime  after  the holiday and  will be  
brushing up on their  wrapping skills.     
i. Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant)  -- Denise Kaʻaʻa  reported 
reported  that they  have been  meeting  monthly since June  some  in-person  and some  
meetings  via Zoom.  They  are in  the process  of elections  to take place on Jan. 
3.  Currently  they  are working through the  policies  and procedures.   She noted  that 
there is  lots of community  activity  going on at  preset.   They  are building at  Pāhonu, 
which  is the Fish/Turtle  pond, on the  weekend  and doing Limu  Hui invitation  only 
because of  COVID.   They  just completed  an Arbor Day  event  with  100 people  
picking up plants  from  Waimānalo . They  have also had COVID  testing  and provided 
vaccinations  for about  4 weeks,  as their  community  has a lower  vaccination  
rate.  She  is awaiting  a letter  of recommendation for  her Commission  appointment. 
j. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
VI. Hawaiʻi  Island  Report  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to  report  
VII. Maui  Report  (Moanikeʻala  Whittle -Wagner)  -- The Maui  Pāʻū  Committee  met on the  third  
Thursday last  month and  will move  forward  with an in-person parade on Front  Street  with  
six riders  in each  unit.  By  November  18 they  will know  if they  have  all eight  islands.  They  
will be  holding a  public  meeting  on the  third  Thursday of  January.  The riders  are committed  
to participat ing in  a virtual  event  if the live event  is not possible.    
VIII. Kauaʻi  Report  (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -- Nothing to  report.  
IX. Molokaʻi  Report  (Heli  Silva)  -- Nothing to  report.  
X. Lānaʻ i Report  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
XI. Oʻahu  Report  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Lei Draping ceremony  will take place on  Friday, June  10, 
2022. 
XII. Commission  Reports   
a. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Manu  noted she  will be  reaching  out to Kēhau  to 
Legislative  Committee.   She  also noted the  Kona  Parade committee  has met and will 
be moving forward  with  preparations  for a  live Parade and  Hoʻolauleʻa.  
b. Statuary  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- The Kamehameha S chools  Alumni  Association  
Mamalahoe Chapter  has decided  to retain  ownership of  the Hilo  Statue.   KKCC  was 
working with  them  to work  toward  coordinating the  transfer of  ownership to  the 
State  as it could take over  the responsibility  of maintenance,  insurance,  and repairs , 
however, they  have  declined . Kainoa  met with  Congressman  Kanahele regarding  the 
King  Kamehameha S tatue  in Washington, D.C.  and he will speak  with  him to ensure  
the statue  is in place for the  150th Anniversary.  Kainoa  will also  provide  them  with  
an updated narrative  for tours  at the statue .  He  will also  reach  out to the other  
Senators  and Representatives  to see if  we can create  something special  for 2022.  
Amy  advised  that she had communicated  with  the supervisor  in charge  of the 
grounds  keepers  regarding  preparing the  Honolulu Statue  for the  Lei Draping 
Ceremony  as it nears  to ensure  that they  trim for safety  but leave enough time  in 
advance  for regrowth so  it does  not look chopped.  Kainoa  noted he  would also  like 
to meet  with  the supervisor.  In addition, he  added  that he would like  to pursue  the 
possibility  of putting up additional  signage  and fencing on the  mound. 
c. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a and  Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  -- Kehaulani  thanked Ian for his  
continuing with  the commission  and also Julian  for filling  in on behalf  of Kāwika.   
The Retention  Committee  has been  working on a  Frequently  Asked  Questions  
document  which  will be  provided soon.  They  are also creating  an online  handbook.  
Kēhau  thanked  Denise and noted as  of Oct.  28 we  have  received  word  from  Sharon 
with Boards  and Com missions  that Denise has  already uploaded her  application  and 
they are just  awaiting the letter  of recommendation.  They  have  reached  out to Lilia     
as her application  has been  received  and we are also awaiting a letter  of 
recommendation.  We  are currently  looking for candidates  to represent  Lānaʻi.   Lyah  
has advised  she will not  continue  with  the commission  but will remain  until  the end 
of June .  She  has suggested Kimo  Perry  as her replacement  and will follow  up with  
him to see his  level  of interest . 
d. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  recommended  that everyon e go to  
the State  Archives  website  to review  four new  videos  uploaded this  past Thursday. 
Hawaiʻi State Archives video  link: https://vimeo.com/showcase/8970555  
e. Oʻahu  Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa and Pāʻū  Units  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co-Chair  
and Beverly  Lee,  Equestrian  Chair)  -- Kainoa  noted that  Beverly  met with  pāʻū  units  
to determine  their  level  of interest  in participating  if the event  is virtual . She  is 
awaitin g final  confirmations .  Currently  we are planning for a n in-person  event  with  
virtual  as a back  up.      
f. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  -- 2022 Theme:  E Ola Ka Mōʻī  
Kamehameha!  – Long live  King  Kamehameha!  -- Kainoa  noted that  we have  several   
museums  holding exhibits  honoring King  Kamehameha.  Julian  followed up  on 
behalf  of Kāwika  who  had suggested last  meeting  putting together  a series  of 
presentations  on Kamehameh a ʻEkahi  and other  Kamehameha ʻohana.  He presented  
the idea to  Jack  Wong who passed  the request  along  to Kauʻi Burgess  with  
Kamehameha Schools’  Director  of Community  & Government  Relations .  Kauʻi 
advised  the funding was  not available.  Kainoa suggested i f KSAA is  interested  in 
pursuing, perhaps  they  can work  together  with  Vicky  Holt  Takamine working 
closely  with  Monte  McComber  submitted  an HTA CEP  Grant  to have  the Royal  
Hawaiian  Center  decorate their  windows  with  flowers  in June  like London ’s Chelsea 
in Bloom.  Representatives  from  Maui  and Kona  liked  the idea and  expressed  
interested  in doing this  in their  respective locations .  Kēhau  inquired if  we were 
planning to  put together  a Haku  Mele competition.  
XIII. Public  Testimony  -- Nothing to  report.  
XIV. Miscellaneous  -- Nothing to  report.   
XV. Upcoming meeting  -- Tuesday, December  14, 2021 from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
XVI. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  7:02 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/KKCC-10.12.21-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLR  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday, October  12, 2021 
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine  Law  has been  suspended due  to COVID -19’s gathering restrictions ; the meeting  
took place via  Zoom.  
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  
Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui),  Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina , (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), 
Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu) , Kimo  Alama  Keaulana, (Kapahulu Music  Club), Ian 
Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Kēhau Pe‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Puake‘ ala Mann  
(Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua),  Lyah  Kama- Drake  (Island  of Kaua‘i),  
and Keone Kealoha, (Kanu  Hawaiʻi) . 
 
Also  in attendance:  Clint  Kalaola  with  Tidal  Wave Productions, (Volunteer  Parade Co -
Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair),  Bev Lee, (Volunteer  Equestrian  Chair),  Manu  Powers , (Daughters  of 
Hawaiʻi ) and Lionel  Wright, (Papakōlea Community  Association) . 
 
Not present:  Desiree Moana  Cruz (Island  of Hawai‘i),  Heli Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi), Vacant  
(Papakōlea Community  Association), Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i)  and Vacant  (Waimānalo  Hawaiian  
Homestead  Association ) 
 
I. Call to Order  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:07 p.m. by Kainoa  Daines,  Chair.   
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  -- Quorum  was established  and the 
August  and September  meeting  minutes  were approved.    
III. Executive Director’ s Report  -- Reviewed  brief  on new  Sunshine  Law  going into  effect  on 
January  1st and in-practice is  immediate.  Performed  regularly  required  DAG’s  
administrative  duties  and tasks.  Additional  activity  included continuing with  HiPro  (State  of 
Hawaiʻi  eProcurement)  Procurement  System  training , complet ed all but three courses  for an 
elevated  level  of procure ment.  Unfortunately, the  state is transitioning  the training systems 
and some  of the required  courses  are not available until further notice,  which  delays  
certification  and 2022 Procurement  solicitation.  Supplied State  Foundation  on Culture  and 
the Arts  (SFCA)  with  content  to create a new  web page  on the  SFCA  site.   Attended  the bi-
   
monthly DAGS  staff  meeting  and responded to  KKCC  Retention  committee -related  email .  
Attended  four  HTA  Webinar  briefings  on the  HTA Community  Enrichment  Program  (CEP) 
grant  for e ach county and  began  applying for grant s.  Scheduled  meetings  with  all island  
event  planners  and met with  Maui  representatives  to discuss  2022 plans.  Attended  Social  
Media Archive t raining webinar.   Reviewed  new  P-Card  procedures  and completed  Revenue  
report.  
IV. KKCC Business  
a. Executive Committee  Report  -- Nothing to  report.   
i. Financial  Update  (Keone  Kealoha,  Kanu  Hawaiʻi)  -- Keone  reported  a $5 
per month fee deducted  for the paper  statement  cost leaving  an account  
balance of  $4,881.76, Keone  advised  he will cancel  paper  statement  copies  to 
save the  fee.  Trust  Fund Account  is at $35,000. Ian advised  a more  detailed  
statement  will be  provided in  a shared  folder  prior  to the next  meeting.    
ii. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  – It was suggest ed to pursue  
sponsorship earlier  in the year  to capitalize  on companies  that operate on a n 
end-of-fiscal  year  in June . The  challenge, however,  is time  constraint  since 
it’s also our busiest  time  of the year  for event  planning &  execution .  
V.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-island  specific representatives  
a. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Still meeting  via Zoom  and nothing 
to report.   
b.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu (Louise  Alina)  --  They  are meeting  live each  month at 
Bishop Museum.  
c. Hale O  Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  -- Nothing to  report.  
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann ) -- Their  
last meeting  was in July and  they  will have  their  next  meeting  in November. 
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  -- They  have  been  meeting  both live  
and virtually.   Kehaulani  thanked everyone  for their  support  with  their  successful  
live auction  which  ended  last week.  
f. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Pēʻa) -- Next  month they  will hold 
their annual  Convention virtually . 
g. Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association  (Kawika  Trask) – Kawika  was elected  as 
first vice president  of the KSAA Oʻahu  Chapter , which  automatically  placed  him as 
their rep for KKCC . He invited everyone  to the Oʻahu  Regional  Meeting  on October  
13 at  5:30 p.m . – 7:30 p.m . to spotlight  panelists’  discussi on on the  Kamehameha 
Schools  Trustees ’ selection  process . If you are interested  to attend,  call the Hawaiʻi  
Foundation for the  link.  
h. Kapahulu Music  Club ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- In preparation  for an in-person  
parade in  2022, Kimo  has secured  a location  and will plan  for a  pāʻū  draping 
workshop.   
i. Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  -- Lionel  noted three distinct 
organizations  exist  within  the Papakōlea community.  He  also reported  that he is 
working to  restore  the Papakōlea  Community  Association. 
VI. Hawaiʻi  Island  Report  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  – Manu  Powers  reported  that the Kona  
Committee  has met and she will be  forwarding  the Kona  plan  soon.  
VII. Maui  Report  (Moanikeʻala  Whittle -Wagner)  -- The Maui  Pāʻū  Committee  met on 
September  16 and  will move  forward  with  an in-person  parade on Front  Street  with  six    
riders  in each  unit.  They  plan  to meet  again  this month.  The  riders  are committed  to 
participat e in a virtual  event  if the live event  is not possible. 
VIII. Kauaʻi  Report  (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -- Their  committee  is currently  working on a  virtual  Lei 
Draping event .  They  have not  discussed  a live parade  at this point . 
IX. Molokaʻi  Report  (Heli  Silva)  -- Nothing to  report.  
X. Lānaʻ i Report  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to  report.  
XI. Oʻahu  Report  (Kainoa  Daines)  -- Lei Draping ceremony  will take place on  Friday, June  10, 
2022. 
XII. Commission  Reports   
a. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  -- Kainoa asked  Manu  to volunteer  as the Legislative  
Committee  Chair  and she accepted  the role.   
b. Statuary  (Desiree Moana  Cruz)  -- The SFCA  completed  restoration  work  on the 
Honolulu Statue  late last month.  We are awaiting  the schedule  for cleaning  and 
maintenance of  all statues.  Kainoa  noted we  are meeting  with  Micah  Alameda  from  
the Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association  Hilo Chapter  will discuss  the transfer 
of the Hilo  Statue  from  the Alumni  Association  to the State.  He noted that  the Hilo  
Chapter  will continue  to mālama  the statue.    
c. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a & Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina ) -- On  behalf  of the Retention  
committee,  Kēhau  reported  that currently  we have  three vacant  seats  (Lānaʻi,  
Waimānalo  and Papakōlea)  at present  and are actively  pursuing to  fill those  positions  
by the  end of the year.   She  thanked K awika  Trask  for submitting his  application. 
She reminded  commissioners  to provide  your  contact  information  and ideally  with  
one priority  email  address .  Amy  will distribut e the commission  contact  list to  all 
Commissioners.  As a reminder  the following terms  will end  in June  2022:  Ian (Hale 
O Nā Aliʻi),  Lyah  (Kauaʻi  Island)  and Kawika Trask  (Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  
Association).  The  next  end of  terms  will be  June  2023:  Puakeʻala (Māmakakaua),  
Kimo  (Kapahulu Music  Club)  and Moanikeʻala (Maui  Island). They  will need  to 
reapply  with letter  of intent,  resume,  and letter  of recommendation  from  their  
organizations.  Lyah  and Moani  do not  need  to submit  this as they  are appointed. 
Kehaulani  reported  that they  are creating  an on-line orientation  folder  for new  
commissioners  and a FAQ  document  for potential  commissioners.  She asked  
everyone  to please respond to  the Retention  committee ’s request  for suggested 
questions  for the  Frequently  Asked  Questions  document. 
d. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo  reported  that he ran into Adam  
Jansen  with  the State  Archives  who  advised  he has a half a dozen  people  that are 
digitizing  photos.  
e. Oʻahu  Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa and Pāʻū  Units  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co-Chair  
and Bev Lee,  Equestrian  Chair)  –- Kainoa note d that  the parad e committee  is still in  
discussion and  planning mode  about  an in-person parade,  as COVID  restrictions  are 
easing,  with  a virtual  program  as a back -up. The  committee  hopes  to decide by the  
end of this year.  A site inspection was  made at Kual oa Ranch  as a possible  location  
to film the  pāʻū  units  for a  virtual  parade,  along with  interviews  and historical 
information. Bev  commented  that she has not met with the princesses  without  
definitive  information  on a  proposed plan.  This  is due to the high cost  of the horses  
ranging between  $800 -  $1,000 per  horse  with seven  riders  in each  unit.  Once Bev  
know s more,  she will hold a  meeting.  Bev would like  to have  commitments  to ride if 
it is live or virtual . At present , some  units  do not  want  to participate  if the event  is 
virtual.  It was noted also  that pāʻū  fundraisers  can be held  regardless  of the status  of    
the parade.   Clint advised  he had nothing new  to report  about  the Hoʻolauleʻa  as no 
venues  are confirming dates.    
f. 150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  -- 2022 Theme:  E Ola Ka Mōʻī  
Kamehameha!  – Long live  King  Kamehameha!  – Kainoa  noted that  we are l ooking 
for suggestions  and reported  the consent  of 12 museums  to put on exhibits  honoring 
King  Kamehameha. Kanu  Hawaiʻi  will be  working with  the Department  of 
Education for a  statewide  art in the schools  program . A social  media  plan  will be  
implemented  to support  the celebration.   In addition, w ill work  in partnership with  
Lei Aliʻi to  cross -promote  the events.   Kawika suggested  putting together  a series  of 
presentations  on Kamehameha ʻEkahi  and other  Kamehameha ʻohana.  He plans  to 
present  the idea  to KSAA for something that  could  run monthly and  will report  back.   
Kainoa  noted that  we are currently  working with  Kauʻi Burgess, K amehameha 
Schools’  Director  of Community  & Government  Relations , regarding sponsorship 
funding. 
XIII. Public  Testimony  -- Nothing to  report.  
XIV. Miscellaneous  -- Nothing to  report.   
XV. Upcoming meeting  -- Tuesday, November  9, 2021 from  6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
XVI. Adjourn  -- Meeting  adjourned at  7:45 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/KKCC-9.14.21-Meeting-Minutes_.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLER  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday, September  14, 2021 
Time: 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine  Law  has been  suspended due  to COVID -19’s gathering restrictions ; the meeting  
took place via  Zoom.  
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal  Order  of Kamehameha),  
Moanike‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui),  Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina , (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), 
Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu) , Kimo  Alama  Keaulana, (Kapahulu Music  Club)  and 
Desiree Moana Cruz (Island  of Hawai‘i)  and Keone  Kealoha, (Kanu  Hawaiʻi) . 
 
Also  in attendance:  Clint  Kalaola  with  Tidal  Wave Productions, (Volunteer  Parade Co -
Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair),  Bev Lee, (Volunteer  Equestrian  Chair),  Faith  Kalamau  (Papakōlea  
resident)  and Lu Lankford- Faborit o. 
 
Not present:   Ian Custino  (Hale O  Nā Ali‘i), Heli  Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi), K ēhau Pe‘a (Assn.  
of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs), Puake‘ ala Mann  (Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  
Māmakakaua),  Lyah  Kama- Drake (Island  of Kaua‘i),  Manu  Powers , (Daughters  of Hawaiʻi),  
Vacant  (Papakōlea  Community  Association), Vacant  (Island  of Lāna‘i)  and Vacant  (Waimānalo  
Hawaiian  Homestead  Association) . 
                                                                                                                                                                                              
 
I. Call to Order  -- Meeting  called  to order  at 6:04 p.m. by Kainoa  Daines,  Chair.   Quorum  was 
not established.     
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  –- Tabled  until the next  meeting  
III. Executive Director’ s Report  –- Performed  regularly required  DAG’s  administrative  duties  
and tasks,  met with  State  Foundation on Culture  and the  Arts  (SFCA)  regarding HIPro  
(State  of Hawaiʻi  eProcurement)  Procurement  System  utilization,  met with  SFCA  to review  
office  signage  and install ment , completed  all but three HIePro  training  courses  for an 
elevated  level  of procurement.  Then  met with  SFCA  to work  on creating  a web  page  on 
their site for our  KKCC  needs.   Attended  the bi-monthly staff  meeting,  distributed  the 
commission  certificates  to Kehaulani,  Kainoa  and Desiree for notarization  and then  sent to 
   
Sharon Ibara.   Worked  on scheduling Oʻahu  statue  cleaning  and the surrounding grounds.  
Also  met with the KKCC  retention  committee . 
IV. KKCC Business  
a. Executive Committee  Report  –- Nothing to  report.   
b. Financial  Update  (Keone  Kealoha,  Kanu  Hawaiʻi)  –- Received  a check  for $10,000 
from  Kamehameha Schools.  Payment  was made for  photographer  and newspaper , 
advertising a  remaining  total balance of  $4,876.  
i. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian Custino)  -– Nothing to report.  
V.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non-islan d specific representatives  
a. Royal  Order  of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  –- Still meeting  via Zoom.   
b.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu (Louise  Alina)  –- Their  general  meetings  have been  paused  
for now.  Louise  confirmed  that they  did receive their  check  from  the Kala 
Foundation and  thanked  them.   Please note  that lei day will be  coming up in  May  
2022 and  they  will be  raising  awareness  to everyone , especially  to those  in the age 
category  of 46 – 60 years  old to  apply for Lei  King  or Lei Queen ; applications  are 
due in January  2022.   
c. Hale O  Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino)  – Nothing to  report.  
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian  Warriors,  Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  –- 
Nothing to  report.  
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i  (Kehaulani Keana‘aina)  –- They  have  cancelled  the day at 
Queen  Emma  Summer  Palace and are doing support  boxes  instead.  They  are  
sourcing local  vendors  to participate  with  different  levels  of boxes.  Please forward  
information  on vendors  for the gift shop and  the boxes.    
f. Association  of Hawaiian  Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻa) –- Nothing to  report  
g. Kamehameha Schools  Alumni  Association  (Vacant)  –- Nothing to  report.  
h. Kapahulu Music  Club ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  –- Just in case there will be  a parade 
in 2022, he  is planning to  hold a  pāʻū  draping workshop. 
i. Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead  Association  (Vacant)  –- Nothing to  report.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association  (Vacant)  –- Nothing to  report.    
VI. Hawaiʻi  Island  Report  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  –- Everything is  on hold and  she’ll  wait  to see 
what  activities  can happen.    
VII. Maui  Report  (Moanikeʻala  Whittle -Wagner)  –- They  will be  holding their  first pāʻū  meeting  
this Thursday via  Zoom.  They  are currently  scheduling for a  live 2022 parade  and will soon 
decide if  it will be  live or virtual.  
VIII. Kauaʻi  Report  (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  –- Nothing to  report.  
IX. Molokaʻi  Report  (Heli  Silva)  –- Nothing to  report.  
X. Lānaʻ i Report  (Vacant)  — Nothing to  report.  
XI. O‘ahu  Report  (Kainoa  Daines)  –- Nothing to  report.     
XII. Commission  Reports   
a. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  –- Nothing to  report.    
b. Statuary  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  –- Amy  will secure a  schedule from  SFCA  for the  
cleaning  and maintenance of  all statues  on each  island.  Kainoa  has suggested  a fee 
for statue  visitation  by commercial  companies.   Desiree will follow  up with  KSAA 
to maintain  the Hilo  Lei Draping Ceremony. We plan to meet  with  Micah Alameda 
with KSAA Hilo  to discuss  the transition.    
c. Retention  (Kēhau  Pe‘a & Kehaulani  Keanaʻaina)  –-On behalf  of the Retention  
committee,  Kehaulani  reported that  currently  we have  four  vacant  seats  (Lānaʻi,  
Kamehameha Schools  Alumni,  Waimān alo and Papakōlea)  at present  and are    
actively  pursuing to  fill those  positions  by the  end of the year . Kehaulani  noted  that 
the Papakōlea Community  Association  (PCA ) paid  the Department  of Commerce &  
Consumer  Affairs’ (DCCA)  fee and will notify Sharon Ibara with  the Boards  and 
Commissions  that Lilia  Kapuniʻai  is qualified  to fill the  commission  seat;  It was also 
noted that  Denise Kaʻaʻa still needs  to submit  her application  and other  related  
documentation to  officially  represent  Waimānalo  Hawaiian  Homestead Association. 
Kehaulani  thanked  Lu Lankford- Faborit o for providing contacts  for the  Lānaʻi  seats  
and she noted that  we now  have  two prospective  Lānaʻi  Candidates : Nani  Zablan  
and Saul  Kauhihikolo, Jr.   Also,  she spoke  with  KSAA and  had a good conversation  
regarding the  position.  She  confirmed  that Kawika  Trask  will be  able to  attend  the 
meetings.    
 
Kehaulani  also reminded  everyone  to forward  their  updated contact  information to  
Amy.  She thanked everyone  who  already  updated  their  contact  info:  Kainoa,  Louise, 
Ian, Puakeʻala,  Kehaulani,  Kimo,  Kēhau,  Desiree,  Lyah, Moani, Heli,  Bev,  Clint,  
Manu  and Keone.   In the past, Amy  snail  mailed  something to  all of the 
commissioners,  thus  needing a  home  address.  The commissioners  are not  bound to  
share their  home  address  with  the committee , however, it’s  an example of  why it is 
helpful  to include  a home  address  in their  KKCC  contact  information . Also,  the 
committee  doesn’t  want  several  email  addresses  and phone  numbers;  only their  
priori ty email  address,  phone  number, and  address.   
 
The idea of  proposing a  change  in the Boards  and Commissions’  rules  to the 
legislation  has been  tabled.   
 
Reminder : upcoming end  of terms  for June  2022:  Ian (Hale O Nā Aliʻi)  and Lyah  
(Kauaʻi  Island) . Both will need  to reapply  with  letter  of intent,  resume,  and only Ian  
needs  a letter  of recommendation  from  his organization;  next  end of terms  for June  
2023:  Puakeʻala (Māmakakaua),  Kimo  (Kapahulu  Music  Club)  and Moanikeʻala 
(Maui  Island ). 
 
The committee  is currently  creating  an orientation  packet  for newly  installed  
commissioners.   Kainoa  is in the process  of updating the  Roles  and Responsibilities  
to also include  in the packet .  If the  island  commissioner s would like  to submit  
something specific to  their  island, please forward  that information  to Kainoa. Kainoa  
also noted that  every  commission  seat should have  kuleana  within  the commission  
and be aware of  what  their  organization brings  to the King  Kamehameha Celebration  
Commission.  We are hopeful  to make some  additional  adjustments  to the Roles  and 
Responsibilities  and distribute  for comment.  This  will be  a working document  that is 
subject  to evolve . A long - term  goal  will be  for all commissioners  to learn  an oli in 
honor  of Kam ehameha ʻEkahi  in order  to provide  a minimal protocol  altogether .  
d. State  Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  –- Nothing to  report.  
e. Oʻahu  Parade,  Hoʻolauleʻa and  Pāʻū  Units  (Clint  Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade  Co-Chair  
and Beverly  Lee,  Equestrian  Chair)  -- Clint advised they  are working on something  
for Hoʻolauleʻa  but nothing is  finalized.   Kainoa  Daines,  Oʻahu Parade Co -Chair , 
reported  that a virtual  parade for 2022 may  be considered  and are investigat ing 
options.  P ostponing the 150th celebration  to the following year  is an option, but  it’s 
leaning  more  toward  being held  in 2022 rather  than  in 2023. The  Parade c ommittee     
is looking to  do a  one-to-two-hour special  to represent  the statewide  celebration.   
This would include  featuring  the Oʻahu  Parade.  The committee  held  a brief  meeting  
with Kēhau  Peʻa, Pāʻū  Queen,  to be give n the  option to  participate  as Queen  in a 
possible  virtual  parade.  Bev Lee , Pāʻū  Chairperson, also  plans  to meet  with  the Pāʻū 
Princesses  to discuss  if they  want  to participate virtually.  
f.  150th Kamehameha  Day  Celebration  Committee  –- 2022 Theme:  E Ola Ka Mōʻī  
Kamehameha!  – Long live  King  Kamehameha!  
XIII. Public  Testimony  –- Lu Lankford- Faborito  inquired if  funding for the  activities  will be  done  
statewide  or if Molokaʻi  (and Maui  County)  will be  on their  own .  Kainoa  responded to  Lu 
the need  for a  meeting  with  the island  event  coordinators  in order  to determine every  
island’s  needs.   Once  that information  is received,  then  we will schedule  a meeting  with  the 
Hawaiʻi  Tourism  Authority prior  to the next  meeting  and report  back  in October.   He 
advised  Lu to work  through Heli,  the Molokaʻi  Commissioner,  to get additional  funding 
information.  
XIV. Miscellaneous  -– Nothing to  report.   
XV. Upcoming meeting  -– Tuesday, October  12, 2021 from  6 p.m. – 8 p.m. 
XVI. Adjourn  –- Meeting  adjourned at  7:06 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/KKCC-8.10.21-Meeting-Minutes_.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLER  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday,  August  10, 2021 
Time:  6:00  p.m.  – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine Law  has  been suspended  due  to COVID -19 gathering  restrictions  the meeting  
took  place  via Zoom.   
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Ian Custino  (Hale  O Nā Ali‘i), Moanike ‘ala Whittle -
Wagner (Island  of Maui),  Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina , (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Puake ‘ala Mann  
(Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian Warriors,  Māmakakaua),  Heli  Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi),  
Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu),  Kēhau Pe ‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian Civic  Clubs),  Lyah  
Kama -Drake  (Island  of Kaua‘i) , Kimo  Alama  Keaulana,  (Kapahulu Music  Club) 
 
Also  in attendance:  Clint  Kalaola  with  Tidal  Wave  Productions,  (Volunteer  Parade Co -
Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair),  Beverly Lee,  (Volunteer  Equestrian Chair),  Manu  Powers , 
(Daughters  of Hawaiʻi).   
 
Not present:  Kainoa  Daines  (Royal  Order of  Kamehameha),  Vacant (Papakōlea Community  
Association),  Vacant (Island  of Lāna‘ i) and  Vacant (Waimānalo  Hawaiian Homestead  
Association) , Keone  Kealoha , (Kanu  Hawaiʻi),  and Desiree Moana  Cruz  (Island  of Hawai‘i).  
 
 
I. Call  to Order  -- Meeting  called  to order at 6:08  p.m.  by Ian Custino , Co-Chair.   Quorum 
was  established.     
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  –- Both  June  and  July  Meeting  
Minutes  were  approved  with  minor  changes  noted.  
a. Executive  Director ’s Report  –- Performed  regularly required  DAG ’s 
administrative duties  and  tasks  along  with  finalizing  fiscal  year  end  reports .  
Met with  SFCA  regarding HiPro  Procurement System  utilization,  drafted  
guidelines  and  authorization  form  for providing photographic  permission for  
the statues,  began HiPro  training,  completed  the Personal  Action  Request for  
Executive Director  Position,  completed  4th Quarter  Vacancy  Report,  participated  
   
in Retention Committee  Meetings  and  met  with  Lionel  Wright  of Papakōlea 
Community  Association regarding  the status  of the Commission   
III. KKCC  Business  
a. Executive  Committee  Report  –- Once  the department transition discussed  last  
month  we are planning  to meet to  do long  range  planning.   
b. Financial  Update  (Keone Kealoha,  Kanu  Hawaiʻi)  –- Nothing  to report.  
i. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian  Custino)  –- Ian noted  that once  we get the 
transfer  of the department finalized  we will  begin  pursuing  some  long  
term  plans  for sustainability.   He also posed  the question to  determine  if 
KKCC  should  continue to  purchase  a membership  with  CNHA  since we  
are no longer  working  directly  with  them .  No decision was  made  and  
this will  be tabled  until  the next meeting.      
IV.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non -island  specific  representatives  
a. Royal Order of  Kamehameha  (Kainoa Daines)  –- Nothing  to report . 
b.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  –- Louise  advised  that they  have  restarted  
their  meeting  and  currently  have  over 40  members  participating . 
c. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino) – Ian  noted  that t heir  virtual  convention will  be 
coming  us soon.  
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian Warriors,  Māmakakaua ( Puake‘ ala Mann)  –- 
Puake‘ ala noted  that presently  only  na luna  are meeting  until  the regulations  
are relaxed.  
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  –- They  are continuing  planning  a 
Hoʻolauleʻa  workshop  and  Paʻu  Parade.  
f. Associat ion of Hawaiian Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) –- Kēhau advised  that  at the  
last AHCC she  reiterated  that she  is the conduit  for communication with  KKCC  
and also answered  any  questions  members  may  have  had  related  to our  
previous  Lei Draping  Ceremony .  Kēhau  had  been  experiencing  some  issues  
with  the communications  protocol and  worked  with  the AHCC President and  
Executive Committee to  reiterate and  reinforce  the line of  communication and  
reminded  other  members  of the related  boundries  when  communicating .  Ian  
reiterated  that no one  deserves  to be bullied  or treated  poorly  as a volunteer  
King  Kamehameha  Celebration C ommissioner .  He kakoed  and  mahalo ed her  for 
speaking  up professionally,  following  protocol and reiterating  boundries.    
g. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni  Association ( Vacant)  –- Nothing  to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  –- Kimo  asked  for 
recommendations  from  anyone that can  provide  3,000 yellow  Plumeria  for 
Thursday  morning.   Kēhaulani recommended  Hawaiʻi Greeters  and  will  provide  
the contact  information.  
i. Waimānalo  Hawaiian Homestead  Association (Vacant)  –- Nothing  to report.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association (Vacant)  –- Nothing  to report.    
V. Hawaiʻi  Island  Report  (Desiree Moana Cruz) –-  Nothing  to report.  
VI. Maui  Report  (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  –- Nothing  to report.  
VII. Kauaʻi  Report  (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  – Nothing  to report.  
VIII. Molokaʻi  Report  (Heli  Silva)  –- Heli  noted  that the  registrations  for Paʻu  will  be going  
out at the  end  of the week  and  they  will  be collaborating  with  three organizations  for 
the 2022 Paʻu  Parade and  Royal Ball.  
IX. Lānaʻi Report  (Vacant)  — Nothing  to report.     
X. O‘ahu  Report  (Kainoa Daines)  –- Nothing  to report.     
XI. Commission  Reports   
a. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  –- Nothing  to report.    
b. Statuary  (Desiree Moana Cruz) –-  Nothing  to report.  
c. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a)  –- On behalf  of the Retention Committee,  Kēhau lani 
asked  that even t hough  your term  may  still  be for several  years  before  
expiration that everyone  determine and qualify  their  potential  replace ment 
prior to  the time they  exit the  Commission.    She  advised  that everyone  will  
receive reminders  regarding  selecting  your prospective replacement to  build  
our future  pipeline o f Commissioners.   Please provide  the suggested  
replacement name and  current  contact  information along  with  yours.   Currently  
we have four  vacant seats  at present and  we are working hard  to replace  those  
positions.   Hopefully  by Thursday  we will  have  a name for  the KSAA 
Commission  Seat.   She thanked  Heli  for the suggested  name for  Lanai as well  as 
Papakolea.   The  committee humbly  pleas  if you  know of  anyone that lives  on 
Lānaʻ i we are looking  for a contact s.  Kimo  remined  everyone  that in a  previous  
meeting  he had  suggested  Susu who  handles  the Pineapple F estival .  Kainoa was  
following  up but  had  not reported  on the status  of this  recommendation todate.   
Puakeʻala had  also provided  a Nani who  handles  the Maui  Aloha  Festivalʻs  
events  but  it was  noted  that both  Nani and  Makani,  Hele’s  suggestion for  Lānaʻ i 
were  not  authorized  as they  don’t  live  on island.   Kēhau  noted  that the  
committee was  propos ing to write  a letter  to the legislature to  allow  leniency  
for the residency  req uirement for  commissioners  as it is  challenging  to fill the 
positions.   Moani suggested  that we  potentially  propose  that the  requirement 
could  be revised  and  expanded  to residents  of Maui  Nui.   Regarding  Papakōlea 
Community  Association although Lilia has  volunteered  and  applied  currently  
the organization needs  to pay  the DCCA  fees  in order for  her  to qualify.   It was  
also noted  that Denise will need  to submit  her  application and  related  
documentation for  her  commission  seat to  represent Waimānalo  Hawaiian 
Homestead  Association  in order to  be an official  candidate .  
d. State  Archives ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -– Ian  noted  that Hailama Farden is  
working on  expanding  Kamehameha  Schools  digital  archives  in various  
capacities  and suggested  the Kimo  reach  out to him.  Kēhau  mentioned  that  
volunteer  from  various  churches  are assist  in digitizing  the images  presently  at 
the Hawaiʻi State Archives.   
e. Oʻahu  Parade , Hoʻolauleʻa and Pāʻū  Units  (Clint Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -
Chair  and  Beverly Lee,  Equestrian Chair) –-  Clint  advised  the Kala  Foundation is 
finalizing  Lei Draping  payments  this  week.    
f.  150th Kamehameha Day  Celebration  Committee  –- 2022 Theme:  E Ola Ka 
Mōʻī Kamehameha  – Long  live  King  Kamehameha!  
XII. Public  Testimony  –- None  
XIII. Miscellaneous - – Nothing  to report.   
XIV. Upcoming  meeting  -– Tuesday,  September  14, 2021 from  6 p.m.  – 8 p.m.  
XV. Adjourn  –- Meeting  adjourned  at 6 :49 p.m .

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/KKCC-7.13.21-Meeting-Minutes_.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLER  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday,  July  13, 2021  
Time:  6:00  p.m.  – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine Law  has  been suspended  due  to COVID -19 gathering  restrictions  the meeting  
took  place  via Zoom.   
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Moanike ‘ala Whittle -Wagner  (Island  of Maui),  Ian 
Custino  (Hale  O Nā Ali‘i), Kehaulani  Keana ‘aina,  (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Puake ‘ala Mann  
(Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian Warriors,  Māmakakaua),  Heli  Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi),  
Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu),  Kēhau Pe ‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian Civic  Clubs),  Lyah  
Kama -Drake  (Island  of Kaua‘i) , 
 
Also  in attendance:  Clint  Kalaola , Tidal  Wave  Productions,  (Volunteer  Parade Co -
Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair),  Beverly Lee,  (Volunteer  Equestrian Chair),  Keone  Kealoha , (Kanu  
Hawaiʻi)  and  Denise  Kaʻaʻa.  
 
Not present:  Kainoa  Daines  (Royal  Order of  Kamehameha),  Desiree Moana  Cruz  (Island  of 
Hawai‘i),  Kimo  Alama  Keaulana,  (Kapahulu Music  Club),  Vacant (Papakōlea Community  
Association),  Vacant (Island  of Lāna‘ i) and  Vacant (Waimānalo  Hawaiian Homestead  
Association) , Manu  Powers , (Daughters  of Hawaiʻi).   
 
 
I. Call  to Order  -- Meeting  called  to order at 6:09  p.m.  by Ian Custino , Co-Chair.   Quorum 
was  not established.     
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  –- June  Meeting  Minutes  had  
minor  changes  noted  on the acronyms  for the Maui  report.   Due  to lack  of quorum  they  
will be tabled,  revised,  resent and  approved  at the  next meeting.    
a. Executive  Director ’s Report  –- Performed  regularly required  DAG ’s 
administrative duties  and  tasks  along  with  fiscal  year  end  reports .  Amy  
Hammond  reported  that  the KKCC  Department was  transferred  to the State 
Foundation on  Culture  and the Arts  (SFCA) effective July  1.  A meeting  was  held  
   
with  SFCA  on the merger and  it looks  like  this  will  be positive with  some  
possible  assistance mo ving  forward.  
III. KKCC  Business  
a. Executive  Committee  Report  –- Nothing  to report.  
b. Financial  Update  (Keone Kealoha,  Kanu  Hawaiʻi)  –- Keone reported  the current  
balance is  $15,870.58.   Only  two  checks  were  written for  the Lei Draping  
security  provided  by the Sheriffs .  Kanu  Hawaii  also received  a donation of  
$2,000 from  Festivals  Management Group.  
i. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian  Custino)  –- Moani inquired  about  how  the 
commission  goes  about  conducting  fundraising  for the statewide  events  
for 2022.   Ian  assured  her  that the  Executive Committee has  been and 
will be discussing  this  more  in the  future  and  will  share  the plans.   We  
are looking  to be less  Oʻahu  centric  and  more  inclusive  working on  
collective  marketing  and  social media marketing.   We  want to  look  at 
how  to generate revenue for  perpetuity  as part  of the long -term  strategy.  
IV.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non -island  specific  representatives  
a. Royal Order of  Kamehameha  (Kainoa Daines)  –- Nothing  to report . 
b.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  –- Louise  thanked  everyone  for their  
assistance.   She  recognized  the hard  work by  the ladies  of ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu 
in stringing  45-  30ʻ lei.  Louise  watched  the video  by ʻŌlelo and  was  very 
impressed  when  she  saw  what  happened  on the other  islands  noting  it was  
good  to include  the other  events .  Kēhau advised  she  reached  out to Aunty  Linda 
who  was  a past  coordinator  of the Lei Draping  inquiring  about  any  protocols  
used  previ ously  and  that  she  will  sharing  any  information she  receives . 
c. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino) -- Nothing  to report.  
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian Warriors,  Māmakakaua ( Puake‘ ala Mann)  –-
Puakeʻ ala noted  that she  attended  the Lei Draping  for the first  time and  was  
very impressed  how  everyone handled  their  kuleana.   
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  –- Kēhaulani echoed  the other  
reports  that the  she  enjoyed  working with  the other  commissioners  and  was  
happy  with  how  everyone  worked  together  even  with  all the  obstacles  caused  
by the pandemic.  
f. Association of  Hawaiian Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) –- Kēhau noted  she  was  in 
communication with  the Association president while  she  was  on vacation.   He 
advised  he would  be attending  the Lei Draping  Ceremony .  Kēhau  commented  
that she  submitted  her  report  for their  upcoming  July  24 meeting  noting  that 
everything  went well .  She  stated  she  will  be reviewing  with  them  her  position 
as a commissioner  and  provide  any  feedback  they  may  have.  
g. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni  Association ( Vacant)  –- Nothing  to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  –- Nothing  to report.  
i. Waimānalo  Hawa iian Homestead  Association (Vacant)  –- Denise Ka ʻaʻa shared  
that they  took  a group  of youth  to Kohala  and  they  had  a great  experience.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association (Vacant)  –- Nothing  to report.    
V. Hawaiʻi  Island  Report  (Desiree Moana Cruz) –-  Nothing  to report.  
VI. Maui  Report  (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  –- Moanike’ ala shared  she  hoped  that 
everyone  had  a chance  to look  at the  Maui  videos  which  were  shared  and  can  be resent 
if you  haven’t seen these.   Dr.  Ron  Williams  did a pre -show.    She  had  also  not  attended     
the lei draping  and  she  was  very pleased  and  grateful  to attend  and  attending  in the  
future.   
VII. Kauaʻi  Report  (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -– They  have  not  had  a meeting  yet but  will  be 
meeting  soon  as they  are just  awaiting  confirmation from  Kamehameha  Schools  for a 
meeting  location  Looking  promising  for 2022.   Gave  congratulations  to each  of the 
other  island  activities.  
VIII. Molokaʻi  Report  (Heli  Silva)  –- Heli  reported  that the  videos  aired  and  hoped  that 
everyone  was  able to view  them .  The y held  a rodeo  this  year , which  will  also take 
place  next year.   She  is looking  forward  to 2022,  as they  will  have  more  events  planned.   
Their committee will  be holding  a recap  meeting  on the July  24. 
IX. Lānaʻi Report  (Vacant)  — Nothing  to report.  
X. O‘ahu  Report  (Kainoa Daines)  –- Ian thanked  everyone  for their  assistance on  the day  
of the event.   He recognized  that while  we are facing  unprecidented  times  there is  still  
kuleana for  our  Aliʻi  thanking  and  congratulated  everyone .  
XI. Commission  Reports   
a. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  –- Nothing  to report.    
b. Statuary  (Desiree Moana Cruz) –-  Nothing  to report.  
c. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a)  –- Kēhau  shared  that we  all want to  embrace the  legacy  
of King  Kamehameha  and  want to  have  all of  the commissio n seats  filled  
honoring  him.  As the current  commissioners  are the  advocates  for the 
commission  she urged  that we  need  to have  assistance filling  all of  the vacant 
seats .  She  thanked  Beverly  for her hard  work in  keeping  the retention progress  
going  previou sly.  She  noted  in 2018 Kainoa,  Desiree,  Kēhau and  Beverly 
lobbied  to have  the addition of  the Lānaʻ i seat.   Our goal  will be to have  all the  
seats  filled  for the 150th celebration.   Kēhaulani  has asked  that the  homework 
for next meeting  will  be to report  the name of  your future  replacement.   She  
asked  further  that they  be approached  to determine their  interest and  ask that 
they  begin to  participate to  familiarize themselves.   We are looking  for 
cooperative and  productive  candidates.   She also  asked  for support  and  
assistance from  each  commissioner  to fill the seat in Lānaʻ i.  If you  know of  
anyone that fits  the criteria we  are going  to personally  send  you  a mahalo  
surprise .  Heli  suggest ed Makani and  will  follow  up offline  with  the Retention 
Committee.   Kēhau  also noted  that she  looks  forward  to hearing  the monthly  
reports  and  encourages  everyone  to complete  something  monthly  to report .     
d. State  Archives ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -– Nothing  to report.  
e. Oʻahu  Parade , Hoʻolauleʻa and Pāʻū  Units  (Clint  Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -
Chair  and  Beverly Lee,  Equestrian Chair) - – Clint  advised  the Kala  Foundation is 
awaiting  payment for  the assistance provided  for the Lei Draping.   Once  
received  they will  close  out 2021.   Amy  advised  that she  was  contacted  by Rick  
Schneider  representing  Wai  Kai a developer  in Ewa  Beach  regarding  their  
venue in Kapolei  that could  potentially  be used  for Hoʻolauleʻa  and  will  share  
the contact  information  with  Clint.   Ian  noted  that it is  advisable to  maintain 
space  and  presence in and  around  the urban  core  with  our  activities .  We  don’t  
want to  box  ourselves  out of these areas  by just  catering  to the areas  where  the 
majority  of the Hawaiian community  resides.  
f.  150th Kamehameha Day  Celebration  Committee  –- 2022 Theme:  E Ola Ka 
Mōʻī Kamehameha  – Long  live  King  Kamehameha!     
XII. Public  Testimony  –- None  
XIII. Miscellaneous - – Nothing  to report.   
XIV. Upcoming  meeting  -– Tuesday,  August  10, 2021  from  6 p.m.  – 8 p.m.  
XV. Adjourn  –- Meeting  adjourned  at 6 :56 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/KKCC-6.8.21-Final-Meeting-Minutes_.pdf) ---
DAVID Y. IGE 
GOVERNOR    
 
CURT  OTAGURA 
COMPTROLLER  
 
AUDREY  HIDANO  
DEPUTY  COMPTROLLER  
 STATE  OF HAWAI‘I  
 
DEPARTMENT  OF ACCOUNTING  AND GENERAL  
SERVICES  
 
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAI`I  96810 -0119  
 
 
KING KAMEHAMEHA CELEBRATION  COMMISSION  
P.O. BOX 119, HONOLULU,  HAWAIʻI 96810- 0119 
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:    Tuesday,  June  8, 2021 
Time:  6:00  p.m.  – 8:00 p.m.  
Place:   Sunshine Law  has  been suspended  due  to COVID -19 gathering  restrictions  the meeting  
took  place  via Zoom.   
 
Commissioners  who  attended  via Zoom:  Kainoa  Daines  (Royal Order of  Kamehameha),  
Moanike ‘ala Whittle -Wagner (Island  of Maui),  Ian Custino  (Hale  O Nā Ali‘i), Kehaulani  
Keana ‘aina , (Daughters  of Hawai‘ i), Puake ‘ala Mann  (Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian 
Warriors,  Māmakakaua),  Heli  Silva  (Island  of Molokaʻi),  Desiree Moana  Cruz  (Island  of 
Hawai‘i),  Keone  Kealoha , (Kanu  Hawaiʻi) , Louise  Alina  (‘Ahahui  Kaʻahumanu)  
 
Also  in attendance:  Clint  Kalaola , Tidal  Wave  Productions,  (Volunteer  Parade Co -
Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair),  Beverly Lee,  (Volunteer  Equestrian Chair),  Manu  Powers , 
(Daughters  of Hawaiʻi),  Denise  Kaʻaʻa and  Kilauea  Wilson  
 
Not present:  Vacant (Papakōlea Community  Association),  Vacant (Island  of Lāna‘ i) and  
Vacant (Waimānalo  Hawaiian Homestead  Association),  Kēhau  Pe‘a (Assn.  of Hawaiian Civic  
Clubs),  Kimo  Alama  Keaulana,  (Kapahulu Music  Club),  Lyah  Kama -Drake  (Island  of Kaua‘i) , 
Kauhi  Ahana  (Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni  Association)  
 
 
I. Call  to Order  -- Meeting  called  to order at 6:09  p.m.  by Kainoa Daines , Chair.   Quorum 
was  established.     
II. Review  and approve  minutes  of previous  meeting(s)  –- May  Meeting  Minutes  were 
approved  and  April  Meeting  Minutes  also approved  with  amendments.     
a. Executive  Director ’s Report  –- Performed  regularly required  DAG ’s 
administrative duties  and  tasks.   Amy  Hammond  reported  that the  KKCC  
Department would  be transferred  to the State Foundation on  Culture  and the 
Arts  (SFCA) effective July  1.  A meeting  has  been  set to discuss with  SFCA  how  
the merger will  work but  don’t  know what  the impact will  be yet.   We  will be 
   
meeting  with  SFCA  to streamline our  budget  moving  forward.   This  year  the 
SFCA  gave  funding  for the Lei Draping  Ceremony  only.   Lei Draping  expenses  
will be conducted  through  procurement.   Vignettes  will  air from June  5 – 11 on  
Hawaii News  Now.   
III. KKCC  Business  
a. Executive  Committee  Report  –- We are planning  to have  a fact -finding  meeting  
with  DAGS  Comptroller  Curt  Otuguro  and  Jonathan Johnson  with  SCFA  to 
determine the  impact of  the merger.  Please contact  Kainoa i f you  have  any  
questions.  
b. Financial  Update  (Keone Kealoha,  Kanu  Hawaiʻi)  –- Keone reported  the current  
balance remains  the same  at $13,890.58.      
i. Fundraising  Committee  (Ian  Custino)  -– Ian  reported  that sponsorship  
proposals  have  gone  out and  received  good  initial  interest including  The  
Festival  Companies  and  others.   We  submitted  a grant  proposal to  HTA 
requesting  $30,000.  We are hopeful  that Kamehameha  Schools  will  
match  it.  We  received  confirmation for  a $50,000 grant from  SFCA , 
specificall y for Lei Draping,  and  are awaiting  receipt of  funds.   We  will  
likely  meet our  needs  for this  year  with  some  left over for  2022.   The  
Commission  generally  finds  funding  for marketing  statewide.   Kona,  Hilo  
and Maui  normally  work directly  with  HTA for  fundi ng.  Oʻahu,  Kauaʻi,  
Molokaʻi  and  Hilo have  been the  recipients  of the majority  of fundraising  
with  Kohala  as needed.   Previously  we had  talks  with  HTA to  provide  
KKCC  with  $250,000 to  cover  all counties , however,  that may  not  be an 
option  because the  new  HTA structure  relates  to cultural  activities  and 
KKCC  has  also been moved  to the SFCA .  It may  make  sense  to leave the  
volunteers  and  non -profits  currently  managing  events  and  fundraising  to 
continue to  do so until  we can  sort  out the new  department structu re.  
We may  also want to  discuss the  possibility  of a Friends  of KKCC  to assist  
in our  efforts  and  see changes  to the statutes  if needed .  KKCC  is a very 
different type  of organization and  we may  need  to make  some  
adjustments  to HRS  8-5.   Our  goal  will  be to streamline the  operations  as 
it relates  to fundraising  and the various  neighbor  coordinating  neighbor  
island  entities.   Please review  your needs  and  submit  what  funding  
requirements  you  may  have  for the 2022 activities.  
IV.       Commissioner  reports/updates  non -island  specific  representatives  
a. Royal Order of  Kamehameha  (Kainoa Daines)  –- Kainoa is  awaiting  
confirmation that a  6 pm torch  lighting  ceremony  will  be held  at the  statue on  
June  10.  He will  also be  attending  the Hilo Lei  Draping.   Normally  they  gather  at 
the statue to  reaffirm  their  fielty  to King  Kamehameha  as well  as Kalaniani ʻole. 
b.  ‘Ahahui  Ka‘ahumanu ( Louise  Alina)  –- Lei Draping  Ceremony  plans  are in place  
with  lei sewing  confirmed  for the Kaʻahumanu  Cemetery  in Kalihi due  to COVID  
restrictions.    The  practice  did not go well  this  morning  as the poles  provided  by 
Ocean from  HFD  were  not  long  enough  so they  could  essentially  only  talk  
through  the practice.   Taller  poles  will  need  to be sourced  for Friday.  
c. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i (Ian  Custino) -- Nothing  to report.     
d. Daughters  & Sons  of Hawaiian Warriors,  Māmakakaua ( Puake‘ ala Mann)  –-
Puakeʻ ala noted  their  ceremony  would  be on Friday,  June  11 from  8 a.m.  – 9:30 
a.m.   
e. Daughters  of Hawai‘i ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  –- Kēhaulani reported  that  
unfortunately  they  are cancelling  the Hoʻolauleʻa  as they  did not  receive  an 
exemption.  
f. Association of  Hawaiian Civic  Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) –- Nothing  to report.  
g. Kamehameha  Schools  Alumni  Association (Kauhi  Ahana)  –- Nothing  to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music  Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  –- Nothing  to report.  
i. Waimānalo  Hawaiian Homestead  Association (Vacant)  –- Kilauea Wilson  
introduc ed Denise Ka ʻaʻa who  also attended  the mee ting.  They  are working on  
in-house  elections  and  looking  forward  to assisting  KKCC.   We  will  send  her  the 
information on  becoming  an official  member.  
j. Papakōlea Community  Association (Vacant)  –- Amy  reported  on behalf  of Lilia 
Kapuni ‘ai noting  that they  will have  eight boys  to assist  on Friday.    
V. Hawaiʻi Island  Report  (Desiree Moana Cruz) –- Desiree Moana Cruz  reported  that they  
are ready  to go with  the Hilo Lei Draping  Ceremony  planned  for June  10 at 5  pm.   The  
normal  organizations  will be  attending  as well  as the Mayor.   The  following  morning  at 
5 am in Kohala  there will  be a sunrise  protocol at P ololū and  will  be set up to receive 
lei from  5 am and  the draping  is planned  to start  at 8  am.   Ther e will  be no parade or  
hoʻolauleʻa  in Kona .  Both  sites  are to be conducted  as private ceremonies.   No 
hoʻolauleʻa  is planned  at Moku  Ola.   She  also reported  that the  Hawaiʻ i Island  vignette 
will feature the  birthplace of  King  Kamehameha  I in Kohala , his first established  
government in Hilo and  his last  days  of life spent  in Kona.  
VI. Maui  Report  (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  –- Moanike’ ala is looking  forward  to the 
virtual  Maui  parade which  will  be shown  on the MKCPPH  (Nā  Kamehameha  
Commemorative  Pāʻū  Parade &  Hoʻolauleʻa)  Facebook  page  
https://www.facebook.com/NKCPPH  at 10 a.m.  on June  19 followed  at noon  by the 
Hoʻolauleʻa.   She  thanked  the entire Commission  for continuing  to plan  and  honor  
Kamehameha.   Other  facebook  page  features  include:   Pre  Show:  
https://www.facebook.com/NKCPPH/videos/769765630379623,  Parade:   
https://www.facebook.com/NKCPPH/videos/878181179708503,  Hoʻolealeʻa:   
https://www.facebook.com/NKCPPH/videos/221267409676773  
VII. Kauaʻi Report  (Lyah  Kama -Drake)  -– Nothing  to report.  
VIII. Molokaʻi  Report  (Heli  Silva)  –- Heli  reported  she  is working with  Daniel  of Akakū  Maui  
Community  Media to  complete  the long  version  of the video  and  that she  liked  the HNN 
vignette.   The  Paniolo  Heritage r odeo at Jimmy Duvachelle Arena will  be noon  – 6 pm 
with  entertainm ent and  a steak  fry cook  out on this Friday  and  Saturday.   There  will  be 
a link  for the full-length  video  to be provide d later .  The  video  represented  the four  
islands  of Maui  Nui  who  featur ed a page  and  a princess  and  included  a Royal Court.   
The video  will be  shown  on June  11 on  Akakū.   
IX. Lānaʻ i Report  (Vacant)  — Nothing  to report.  
X. O‘ahu Report  (Kainoa Daines)  –- Lei Draping  Protocol was  reviewed  including  
materials  to be used.   Our  event is  modeled  after  the 2021  Kūhiō Day  celebration.   We  
plan  to have  invited  guests  RSVP  for 20- minute time slots  for the drive -through  lei 
drop -off entering  from  the Punchbowl  entrance .  The  deadline to  RSVP  will be Monday , 
June  7 if they  want to  get out  to offer  the lei with  protocol and  oli they  can  do so during     
that time slot.   We  will  have  the boys  from  Papakōlea Community  Association wearing  
black  pants , aloha  shirt  and barefoot  along  with  the volunteers  from  the Honolulu  Fire  
Department.   They  will  be using poles  to drape  the lei from  invited  guests  to be placed  
on the statue arm  holding  the spear  and  the plumeria  lei will  be placed  on the 
outstretched  arm  with  any  lei coming  after to be determined.   The  mayor,  governor 
and commission  organizations  will  be invited,  and time slots  will  be available based  on 
a first  come  first  serve  basis.   We  will  have  a rehearsal  to practice with  the poles.   
Ideally  when  people  exit  their  car they will  be escorted  to the mound  for draping  and  
return ed to their  vehicle.   We  will  distribute the  draft  protocol with  responses  
requested  by end  of Monday  for any  revisions.   We  will  also distribute an email  
regarding  where  to watch  and  follow.   ʻŌlelo wi ll be  filming  from  12:30  pm – 2:30 pm  
with  the entire program  beginning  from  10 am.   Ian  will  oversee  the parking.   The  
commissioners  are welcome  to attend  but it is  prefer red to direct everyone to  watch  
on ʻŌlelo with  social distancing  in place.   If commi ssioners  do attend , aloha  attire is  
recommended.   
XI. Commission  Reports   
a. Legislative  (Manu  Powers)  –- Nothing  to report.    
b. Statuary  (Desiree Moana Cruz) –-  Nothing  to report.  
c. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a)  –- Nothing  to report.  
d. State  Archives ( Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -– Nothing  to report.  
e. Oʻahu  Parade , Hoʻolauleʻa and Pāʻū  Units  (Clint  Kalaola,  Oʻahu Parade Co -
Chair  and  Beverly Lee,  Equestrian Chair) - – Clint  reported  the hoʻolauleʻa  is 
cancelled.  
f.  150th Kamehameha Day  Celebration  Committee  –- Nothing  to report.  
XII. Public  Testimony  –- None  
XIII. Miscellaneous - – Nothing  to report.   
XIV. Upcoming  meeting  -– Tuesday,  July  13, 2021 from  6 p.m.  – 8 p.m.  
XV. Adjourn  –- Meeting  adjourned  at 6 :44 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/2023_03-14_KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:   Tuesday, March  14, 2023 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
   
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal Order of Kamehameha),  Moanike‘ala 
Whittle -Wagner  (Island of Maui ), Napu’unoa Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools Alumni 
Association), Desiree Moa na Cruz  (Island of Hawai‘i),  Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Kaʻ ahumanu) , Kēhau 
Pe‘a (Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs), K ēhaulani Keana‘aina  (Daughters of Hawai‘ i), Puake‘ ala 
Mann  (Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua) , Ian  Custino  (Hale O Nā Ali‘ i), Kalei 
Hoffman,  (Island of Kauaʻi)  
  
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair , Leilani Kahoano, ( Waim ānalo Hawaiian 
Homestead Association /Commission Candidate ), Marlene Wilson , (Waim ānalo  Hawaiian Homestead 
Association /Commission Candidate ) 
  
I. Call to Order, establish quorum  -- Meeting called to order at 6: 09 p.m. by  Chair Kainoa 
Daines.   The meeting minute s were approval for February . No public was present to provide 
testimony.  
a. Executive Director’s  Report  (Amy Hammond)  -- Completed  the regularly required 
DAGS  administrative duties .  Met with Comptroller, Keith Regan to discuss the 
department and request funding of at least $200,000. Noted that all Commissioners have 
completed their Ethics training and distributed Ethics Disclosure requests to 
Commissioners  for completion by May.  H earing dates  for Commission seat confirmations 
will be scheduled soon and everyone will be notified to pr ovide letters of support .  Held a 
meeting with the Lei Draping Committee and s ubmitted the request for Aliʻiōlani Hale for 
the Lei Draping Ceremony.  Worked with DAGS  to find a solution to resolve the  9% 
salary restriction  restoring full funding for the  Executive Director position .   
II. KKCC Business  
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing to re port. 
b. Financial Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Amy reported that we have received  $50,000 from the 
State Foundation on Culture and the Arts for the 2023 Lei Draping .  HTA is going through 
some growing pains so we will most likely not see any money until well after June .  We 
are anticipating to receive funding eventually , however, no gu arantees.  Therefore,  each 
activity is on its own to secure funding.   When the RFP is released w e will still apply for 
funds but they would  not be received until well into the fall.  We will most likely be put 
under signature events which will require that  matching funds for the grant.  We should 
start to  pursue the funding 2024 as soon as possible .  The funding we have at present will  
be used for marketing activities across the state.  We would like to ask everyone to go 
ahead and submit your budgets for this year.   Amy will distribute a request for budgets.  
c. Fundraising Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Ian advised that until we receive funding, we 
must  try to individually work on raising funds for the events.    
d. Committee  Repo rts 
i. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Manu reiterated that we are awaiting the 
determi nation about the HTA grants.  
ii. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Kainoa reported that the Kamehameha Schools 
Alumni  Māmalahoa Chapter  cleaned the Hilo Statue.  Amy  to circulate a memo 
regarding the cleaning with photos . 
iii. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and K ēhaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau said mahalo to Leilani 
Kahoano and Marlene Wilson for joining the meeting  and expressed that she was 
hopeful there will be some response from the new leadership from Waimānalo  
Homestead Association prior to our next meeting.  In addition, she noted that 
Leināʻala has filled out her paperwork and she should be in the process of 
confirmation.  Amy to follow up with Wendy Kondo to confirm if paperwork has 
been recei ved for Kalei Hoffman .  Desiree noted that she spoke  with a friend  from 
Lānaʻ i again but was reminded she lives on Maui.  She will also reach out to 
Jennifer Pimentel. Kainoa noted that now Waim ānalo Homestead Association has 
two potential candidates for one seat but will need to determine who will be the 
representative.  Marlene no ted she  is the chairperson for the A liʻi Committee but 
she is not familiar in all that was involved , she appreciates  Leilani reaching out and 
getting things going.  Kēhaulani to follow up with Marlene regarding the roles and 
responsibilities for Commission ers. 
iv. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
v. Friends of KKCC (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Mark reported that he created a draft 
from the sample Amy provided from the Friends of Honolulu City Lights.  He  
would like to have someone else on the committee to assist with editing the 
document.  Kainoa noted K ēhaulani Watson may be someone to reach out to as she 
has a background in forming non- profits.   We are looking at the c reation of the non-
profit to assist with year -round funding efforts.  Kainoa will circulate to the Royal 
Order  for review . 
vi. Retreat  (Kainoa Daines) -- Tabled until further notice.   
vii. Outreach and Education  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Desiree reported that she is 
working on getting the information to the art teachers in the public and private 
school to encourage them to do art contests celebrating  Lei Draping.  She has 
potentially four to five schools  on Hawaiʻi Island in terested .  She plan s to have an 
art contest on the Lei Draping, Parade or his life and provide an award or 
commendation from Mayors or Governor for each contest winners .  This is an 
effort to outreach to many students so we have an annual discussion for those 
younger people and grow another community of arts people  and support emerging 
artists.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
III. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- Kalei Hoffman  advised that she has submitted her 
paperwork and was advised by Lyah that it is  on the governor’s  desk , Amy to follow up.  
Next step will be a hearing and to  provide support letters.  Kalei noted Paʻu units are doing 
fundraisings in A pril, in Waimea for the Maui and Lanaʻi  units .   
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa  Chair) -- We 
are getting the key people on board.  We are continuously working to get vendors for 
Hoʻolauleʻa.  With the funding for HTA up in the air they are still working on securing 
sponsors. 
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Kainoa, Kimo, Amy and Louise met regarding Lei 
Draping.  Kainoa volunteered to be the chair.  We are looking to potential ly have some of 
the warriors from the parade operate the lou.  As usual we plan to have Papak ōlei youth 
continue to carry lei  and Kimo will be the lei director . Louise reported they plan to  
following the same program as last year  and she  is moving forward securing everything 
needed .   
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leinaʻ āla Lopez ) -- Nothing to report.   
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Moani reported that they have 
a meeting coming up this Thursday as the do each month.  This month the topic will be lei 
making from scratch to finish from six to seven different styles .  She has also spoken with 
Daryl and they are discussing the funding concerns .   
f. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- She reached out to the Royal Order Mam āhaloa 
Chapter regarding events.  They do want to do something but have concerns regarding the 
funding and she will circle back with them to follow up.  Desiree confi rmed Kohala is 
doing their celebration on Sunday, June 11.  She will provide some additional details late r.  
Amy to provide the neighbor islands with a  request for budgets.  Desiree noted that Royal 
Order Mamāhaloa Chapter had asked for $50,000.  
h. Kona Lei Draping/Parade/ Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina) -- Kēhaulani reported 
they have Hoʻolauleʻa planned  as it will be hosted by Daughters  of Hawaiʻi.  She noted the 
vendors will return for Hoʻolauleʻa as A  Day at Huihe ʻe event  was rained out.   
IV. Commissioner reports/updates non -island specific representatives  
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa noted at the end of this mont h 
there is H ui pū at Q ueen Emma S ummer P alace on Sunday, March 30.  He  will have a 
book signing and a ll of the Royal Societies have been invited to attend.                 
b.  ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Louise noted that the ladies celebrated the Aliʻi 
Sunday for Queen Kaʻahumanu .  This week on Thursday they will decorate Mauna  ʻAla 
and then Friday have a  luncheon planned at Bishop Museum.   Queen Kaʻahumanu ’s 
birthday is Friday, March 17th.       
c. Hale  O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) --  Nothing to report.  
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Nothing to 
report.  
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kēhaulani reminded everyone that the 
annual celebration for the remembrance  of Kauikeaouli at Keauhou Bay is this Friday .  
They are focusing on engagement and information with Q&A along with activities.  They 
will have  an educational ceremony  at 9 am at K eauhou B ay on Sunday, March 17.                   
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) -- K ēhau reported that the Association 
of Hawaiian Civic Clubs is hosting the Prince Kuhio Day parade on March 25 in Kapolei . 
Kainoa will emceeing the last reviewing stand .  They are actively working with the 
Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement.  Ian noted that the Prince Kuhio Hawaiian 
Civic Club will be hosting receipt of hoʻokupu after Aliʻi Sunday at the cript in Mauna 
ʻAla.  Prince Kuhio Hawaiian Civic Club wi ll be sending out emails with the details as it 
was a bit last minute.   There will be options do just drive in and drop of with people to 
receive so you do not have to get out of your vehicle or you are welcomed if you wish to 
stay and do a short protocol.  
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Mark had a new 
member of their board asked if Lei Draping will occur and if Kamehameha Schools 
Alumni Association  will be invited to participate .  Kainoa assured him  that yes  it is 
happening they are welcomed  to participate especially given they have a seat on the 
Commission.  
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association  (Vacant)  -- Marlene Wilson  shared  that this 
Saturday is Denise Kaʻaʻa ’s funeral at Kamehameha Schools Chapel from 9 am  – noon  
with services at 10:30 with pāʻ ina at 1 pm at A rtistry on C ooke S treet.  Kainoa noted that 
Denise was with us a short while on the Commission  but will be missed.  
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to report. 
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to repor t. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report . 
V. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday , April 11, 2023, from 6 p.m. -  8 p.m. 
VI. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  7:08 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/2023_04-11_KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes 
 
Date:   Tuesday, April 11, 2023 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
   
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:   Kainoa Daines  (Royal Order of Kamehameha),  Napu’unoa 
Crabbe  (Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association), Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Kaʻ ahumanu) , Kēhau Pe ‘a 
(Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs), Kēhaulani Keana ‘aina  (Daughters of Hawai‘ i), Puake‘ ala 
Mann  (Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua) , Ian  Custino  (Hale O Nā Ali‘ i)  
  
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Parade Co -Chair/Ho‘olaule‘ a Chair , Leilani Kahoano, ( Waim ānalo Hawaiian 
Homestead Association /Commission Candidate ), Marlene Wilson , (Waim ānalo Hawaiian Homestead 
Association /Commission Candidate ) 
  
I. Call to Order, establish quorum  -- Meeting called to order at 6: 09 p.m. by  Chair Kainoa 
Daines.    No public was present to provide testimony .  
II. KKCC Business  
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa reported that at present the HTA 
funding will not be provided this year so each neighbor island will need to raise their own 
funding.   We are concerned that we are not able to put on the parade this year  for Oʻahu 
and will  need to determine if it is  feasible this year  and the committed will determine by 
April 22.  We have the Convention Center  confirmed for float building. Kainoa and the 
Oʻahu Visitors Bureau  has noted that there is an opportunity for KKCC to take over the 
Prince Kuhio Mound in June from 5:30 – 7:30 for $15,000 - $20,000 to provide hula for 
the event  to manage the event  including sound as a fundraiser .  Leilani is willing kokua for 
the events.   She also inquired about going to the community for funding via morning shows 
and requesting direct donations.  Kainoa noted that he has mixed feelings about putting it 
out via the morning shows.  We do have pending sponsors and believe we can probably 
squeak through .  We will be looking to develop new funding streams.  
b. Financial Update  (Ian Custino)  -- Ian noted that the situation is dire.  Clint advised that we  
are continuing to seek  corporate sponsorship,  and many have responded no not this year.  
We have three  entries paid of $127.50 for the parade  applications to date .  Amy reported 
that we have received  $50,000 from the State Foundation on Culture and the Ar ts for the 
2023 Lei Draping . There is also an additional $10,000 in our Trust Fund Account  we have 
included in the procurement. K ēhaulani noted that she met with Hale Mua who advised 
they funds were outstanding for the 2022 event would appreciate follow up regarding the 
reimbursement  within the week.  
 
  
 
     
c. Fundraising Committee  (Ian Custino)  -- Nothing to report.  
d. Committee  Repo rts 
i. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Kainoa noted that there may be a potential demise of 
HTA and the creation of a new funding structure.    
ii. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report. 
iii. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and K ēhaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau lani noted that mostly 
everyone has been applying that had expiration dates nearing .  Mahalo to Leilani 
Kahoano with Waimānalo  Homestead Association  for applying.  Puake ʻala has 
advised that she will be reapplying as well .   
iv. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
v. Friends of KKCC (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Nothing to report.  
vi. Outreach and Education  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report. 
III. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa (Vacant)  -- Kimo Perry contacted us to note that Kaua ʻi may cancel 
their events,  but we are trying to support and provide them assistance.   
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa  Chair) -- Clint 
reported that all permits are submitted and ready to go.  We are waiting  for the meeting 
with the Department of Transportation and then we can go ahead and secure the HPD 
special duty, etc.  All of the park’s  permits are submitted.  The Ho ʻolaule ʻa committee is 
meeting to determine if they will move forward without any funding.  There are three halau 
already committed and three groups already confirmed.  A handful of vendors have 
applied, and a final decision will be made this weekend to proceed.  
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Kainoa noted that he has reached out to the W arrior 
to request from Makani Tabura regarding the warriors to manage the lei.   Papak ōlea 
committed to move lei from the tent to the mount.  Rehearsals will be planned as was  done 
last year.  Kainoa will meet with Puake ʻala to discuss  lei draping.  
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leinaʻ āla Lopez ) -- Nothing to report.   
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Nothing to report. 
f. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kona Lei Draping/Parade/ Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina) -- Kēhaulani reported 
Kona Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa is planned and partnering with Daughters  of Hawaiʻi.  Please 
keep an eye out for our beloved K ēhau Pea as she is Pāʻū Queen for Merrie Monarch in 
Hilo.   
IV. Commissioner reports/updates non -island specific representatives  
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa noted that the Royal Societies 
are head ed to Washington D.C. for the unveiling of the portrait of Liliʻ uokalani in the 
National P ortrait G allery of American Imperialism.  
b.  ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Louise noted that they are sending two ladies to 
represent their organization in Washington.  ʻAhahui is just preparing for Lei Draping. 
Congra tulations to Leila ni our May Day Queen.  
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- Nothing to report.  
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Nothing to 
report.  
 
 
  
 
 
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kēhaulani reminded everyone that they 
have the annual lei contest happening via social media and tag #daughtersleicontest.   
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) -- Nothing to report. 
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Napuʻunoa Crabbe)  -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association  (Vacant)  -- Marlene Wilson  inquired how 
the association can support KKCC in the next few months as they hold monthly meetings.  
Please share any communicat ion as to our needs moving forward as to how they can help 
with the events.  Amy will provide an email and copy everyone for wha t we need as far as 
support in the form of lei draping assistance, parade decorated vehicle or float, volunteers, 
etc. as reminder as to how organizations can participate with the C ommission.  The Roles 
and R esponsibilities document can be reviewed and dis tributed  in the near future for 
Commissioners .  We will also reach out to HLTA regarding funding.  Amy to resend the 
sponsorship request  as well .  Leilani suggested to do a video seeking sponsorship and is  
willing to send the video to her donor base.  Kain oa suggested that Kimo do the video and 
also that each Commissioner send out the sponsorship letter to their respective 
organizations.    
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to re port. 
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to report. 
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report. 
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report . 
V. Upcoming Meeting  -- Tuesday , May 9, 2023, from 6 p.m. -  8 p.m.   move to the first Tuesday in 
June 6, 2023 prior to the Kamehameha Day meeting.  Kainoa will not be at the next meeting.  
VI. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  7:05 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/2024_01-09-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:   Tuesday,  January 9, 2024 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
 
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal Order of Kamehameha), Ian Custino  (Hale 
O Nā Ali‘i ), Kēhau Pe ‘a (Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs ), Kalei Hoffman  (Island of Kauaʻ i), 
Kimo Keaulana  (Kapahulu Music Club) , Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Ka‘ahumanu) , Lein āʻala Lopez  (Island 
of Molokaʻi ), Moani Whittle -Wagner  (Island of Maui ), Puake ʻala Mann , (Daughters & Sons of 
Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua)  
 
Attendees:   Karen Winpenny, Clint Kalaola  Kala Foundation, Marlene Wilson  
       
I. Call to Order, Roll Call and Reminders, E stablish Q uorum  -- Meeting called to order at 
6:05 p.m. by Kainoa Daines .  The meeting minutes from May , June , July, September , October , and 
November  were approved.  Note, no meeting s were held in August  or December 2023. No public 
testimony was provided .     
II. Executive Director ’s Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy reported that she has been completing her 
regular duties and tasks for DAGS.  She  has been corresponding with the ʻAhahui Kaʻahumanu 
regarding the status of funding for lei draping and preparations .  Amy attended the legislative 
hearings for WAM and FIN  with nothing to report .  She has been communicating with HTA 
regarding a second application submitted from Kohala for the HTA Grant which they 
automatically disqualified as HTA wishes for all of the grant requests to come in through KKCC.  
Kilohana  by the  Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement  who is reviewing the grants has 
advised that they are  will be announcing the awards a month late so we will not have a response 
until mid January.  Kainoa asked that the 2023 HTA event survey report be circulated to 
Commissioners following the meeting.  
III. Financial Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy  reported she has secured a grant from the State 
Foundation on Culture and the Arts for 2024 to cover the cost of the Lei Draping Ceremony.  S he 
noted that the payment has gone out to Kala Foundation for the 2023 statewide activities minus a 
$10,000 outstanding balance due.  We have  been following up on the remaining payment for Kala 
Foundation f rom the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Grant  as it is their responsibility to 
issue the check.  They are having an issue as they may not have encumbered the funds as 
requested.  Everyone involved in the process is aware of the situation and we are awaiting word as 
how it will be resolved.   At present we are $10,000 in the negative but do expect to receive the 
$50,000 State Foundation on Culture and the Arts funds  for 2024 in the coming months. At present 
we are awaiting meetings with ʻIolani Palace regarding logistics and the Mayor ’s office regarding 
support for the events. Amy noted at present we do not have details about FestPAC.  Kainoa 
reminded everyone for the sake of clarity that the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts which  
is an attached agency to DAGS provides us with $50,000 yearly r elated to the statewide statues  to 
provide education about art in public places.  We use these funds for Kohala and Honolulu and 
would also use for Hilo should they eventually sign the Memorandum of Understanding with the 
State to manage the statue belonging to Kamehameha Schools  Alumni Association. In 2023 the 
State Foundation on Culture and the Arts advised that our account had $60,000 which was $10,000 
more than anticipated. Upon request Amy was told they did not know where it came from but 
rather to adjust the fund payout acco rdingly.  Also, in December we were informed that there was 
a missing plaque at the statue, however, upon further investigation it was noted that this plaque 
had been relocated many years ago and was not missing.  I t was an unncessary situation that blew 
up very quickly when people were franti cally calling about the missing plaque and posting on 
facebook .  The situation escalated to  the point that the media contacted myself, State Foundation 
on Culture and the Arts and even the office of the Governor for comment.  Once I was able to 
provide photographs from previous years showing the location of the plaque has been  vacant for 
years we were able to resolve the questions and satisfy the media.   
IV. KKCC Business/ Committee  Repo rts 
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kaino a Daines)  -- Kainoa noted that tomorrow the parade 
committee is meeting with Aaron Salas, Executive Director from Festival of the Pacific  
(FestPAC)  and some of the leadership from the  Pan Pacific Festival.  Kainoa sits on the 
board of  the Pan Pacific Festival  representing King Kamehameha Celebration as they ha ve 
been holding their event on the same weekend as the Oʻahu parade  for many years .  Kainoa 
has been able to fill them in on the  planned FestPAC activities which they were unawar e 
but he hope to create some synergy among our organizations.  We will try to secure some 
additional information  regarding the status of FestPAC .  Kainoa noted that FestPAC is held 
every four years in a dif ferent Polynesian nation.  The event ha d postponed originally due 
to COVID and has been rescheduled to this year.  There will be several heads of states and 
other digni taries planning to attend  in Hawaiʻi.  FestPAC is planning to have several of 
those dignitaries attend  the Lei Draping  Ceremony.  The vote for the formation of an 
Investigative Committee for FestPAC will be added to the next meeting agenda.  Kainoa 
has also reached out to the Royal Societies to attend so we will need to consider protocols 
at the Lei Draping Ceremony.  A lso, we are looking a green room with chairs, air 
conditioning and refreshments  inside of Aliʻiolani Hale.  Puakeʻala noted that we should 
also remember June 11 in which some will visit the statue.  She commented she was 
contact ed by the wife of the King  of A otearoa regarding our plans which once finalized she 
will respond.  She has also heard that dignitaries from Tahiti may possibly attend as well .     
b. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Kainoa reported that  Councilwoman Cindy Evans contacted 
himself and Amy  regarding funding for Kohala , she suggested that we contact the Native 
Hawaiian C acus to fund our activities.  She was primarily  trying to understand the process  
but does not intend to introduce legislation to assist with our funding. 
c. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Kimo expressed m alalo to Amy for following up on 
the plaque situation.  He also pointed out that it appears we have a disconnect between the 
Commission and those that manage the Kohala Statue.  He suggested perhaps we need to  
have a separate meeting with Kohala regarding their HTA grant application and L ei 
Draping Ceremony to create  better synergy.  Kimo suggested they be invited to attend the 
meetings which Kainoa assured they are invited to pa rticipate  monthly.  Kainoa will also 
follow up with an email to connect  Sharon Hayden who works with the group in Kohala  
with us . 
d. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and K ēhaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- K ēhau reported that we have our 15 
seats as C ommissioners and two are vacant including Lānaʻ i and Kamehameha Schools 
Alumni Association .  Updates for  terms include the June 2024 expiration of  Leinaʻā la, 
Desiree and Kēhau.  Kainoa ’s term will expire  in June 2025.  Should anyone  choose to  
participate for another term you can just reapply as the term runs with the organization not 
necessarily the person.  Please be sure to reapply if your first term is ending .  You can do 2 
- 4 year terms , 8 year terms maximum.  If your second term is ending  please prepare to find 
a replacement  for your seat.  
e. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
f. Friends of KKCC -- Nothing to report. 
g. Outreach and Education  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report. 
V. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kalei  Hoffman) -- Kalei Hoffman advised that they had their first 
meeting and determined the events on Kauaʻi will take place on Saturday, June 15 at 9 a.m.  
Lia Kama- Drake will be co -chairing the events.  The P āʻū leader  is Betty Nakamoto , a past 
queen and has hosted many previous  pāʻū events .  Dennis Fujimoto will handle public  
representatives , Kimo Perry to assist with the financial reports and Kalei ’s ʻohana  to 
support overall .  Kimo advised the he and Beverly Lee would be happy to assist if they 
need additional support with the pā ʻū activities .  Kalei  was grateful to  Kēhau  and Beverly 
who provided the rules and regulations  for the pāʻū  units . 
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa, P āʻū (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade  Co-Chair and 
Hoʻolauleʻa  Chair) -- Clint noted that we are on track  and just awaiting details regarding 
FestP AC.  We need to determine if there are additional floats and where our float building 
site will be located.  
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Louise reported that they had their first meeting of 
the year and are looking forward to the Lei Draping  Ceremony . 
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leinaʻā la Lopez ) -- Leinaʻā la advised that the ir events are 
scheduled for the Gala on June 7 with the  Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa on June 8.  They have 
yet to meet as a committee.  
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Moanikeʻala  paused and 
reflected not ing that none of us was aware how important Front Street was until now.  She 
commented that  they  are 95% confirmed that the  starting  point of the parade will be  at  
Maui Community College then  to the War Memorial, although, it may be under 
construction.  Also, t hey are meeting with Queen Kaʻahumanu Shopping Center and may 
have the awards presentation in that location . She noted a  police officer has been assigned 
to the event so they can now proceed  with planning.  They are considering for future years , 
until they can return to Lāhaina , possibly doing the parade in different areas around Maui . 
This year they  may not have full units due to finances.  They have selected the queen, 
Rachel ʻUwēkoʻolani -DeCoite .  Dismount  may be at War Memorial.  The event s will be 
held on Saturday, June 15. 
f. Lānaʻ i (Vacant ) -- Nothing to report.  
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Kainoa noted that the Lei Draping Ceremony will be 
on June10 in Hilo and June 11 in Kohala as usual . 
h. Kona Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina) -- Nothing to report. 
VI. Commissioner  reports/updates non -island specific representatives   
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing to report.   
b. ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report  
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) --  Nothing to report . 
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Puakeʻala 
said she had been approached and asked if women are allowed on the mound during the 
Lei Draping Ceremony?   Kainoa replied that for our ceremony women are allowed.  Other 
organizations may have other protocol.  Kainoa recalled that many years ago Papakolea ’s 
protocol was that women were not allowed.  He also recalled that i n 2009 the Commission   
voted that no lei was to be placed on the neck  of the statue .  Ian noted that i n 2023 the Lei 
Draping Committee  discussed and it was agreed that women were indeed allowed on the 
mound.  He also noted that the hālau are normally on the mound each year performing.  
This discussion is something that can be inluded when we review the protocol.  Puakeʻala 
noted that in 2023 the young men asked if Faith Kalamau could join them to assist in 
directing the process and she was told no that women wer e not allowed.  As a State 
Commission we can review the protocols such removal of  footwear for example  which is 
not required, shoes are allowed.  These types of things are normally decided by each 
organization using the mound.  Ian noted that during the 2023 recap there were many folks 
involved providing direction on the mound.  In the future we need to have someone 
specifically in charge to provide direction.  These are the types of things we can review this 
year and put out an updated protocol for KKCC.  A recommendation from 2023 was 
suggested that someone on the mound be assigned to advise protocol if things are not 
correct when presenters approach.  It was commented that there were to o many people 
telling people what to do last year on the mound.  Kimo noted that he ran himself ragged 
last year  keeping Paula and Kimo on track .  Kimo noted that historically women were 
allowed on the mount.  Kanaʻ iaupuni Gomes  will be the chanter , Elija M cShane will not be 
participating .  Kainoa noted that  we need to set  a meeting offline  very soon to  get the 
protocol updated so we can communicate this to everyone.    
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Nothing to report.   
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) -- Nothing to report.    
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  -- Nothing to report. 
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homestead Association  (Leilani  Kahaono)  -- Marlene Wilson 
noted that they recently received their schedule for the membership meetings for 2024 Jan, 
March, May is the only time they are meeting with the membership.  If we need volunteers 
they would need to know in March if we need a volunteer base.  Clint  and Louise  to 
determine volunteer needs and share Amy to share with Marlene.  
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whi ttle-Wagner)  -- Nothing to report. 
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Kalei Hoffman ) -- Kalei noted that on January 27 there are holding a  
fundrais er with rice pudding and kalua pi g.  Kainoa suggested she  share any fundraising 
information by forwarding it to us and we can add it on the social media or it can be sent 
out to the various organizations.  
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Leinaʻala Bishaw ) -- Nothing to report.  
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report . 
VII. Public Testimony -- Nothing to report.    
VIII. Upcoming Meeting  -- The next meeting  is currently scheduled for  Tuesday , February 13 , 
2024, from 6 p.m. -  8 p.m.  Please note if you are not able to attend you can send a representative 
but they are not a llowed  to vote  on your behalf.  
IX. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  7:18 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/6-4-24-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:   Tuesday,  June 4 , 2024 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
 
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:  Ian Custino (Hale O Na Ali’i), Lein āʻala Lopez  (Island of 
Molokaʻi ), Moani Whittle -Wagner  (Island of Maui ), Jame Schaedel , (Kamehameha Schools Alumni 
Association ), Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Ka‘ahumanu), Ian Custino  (Hale O Nā Ali‘i  O Hawaiʻi),  
 
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Kala Foundation), Keke Kaniho  (Hawaiʻi Island Candidate), Beverly Lee, 
(Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs , Pending) , LuAnn Faborito , (Association of Hawaiian Civic 
Clubs ) 
       
I. Call to Order, Roll Call and Reminders, E stablish Q uorum  -- Meeting called to order at 
6:10 p.m. by Ian Custino , Co-Chair .  Meeting minutes for May were tabled due to lack of quorum.  
No public testimony was provided.   
II. Executive Director ’s Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy reported that she has been completing her 
regular duties and tasks for DAGS  as well as  taking care of inventory and year end documentation 
and paperwork.  She also complete the procurement solicitation and award in which Kala 
Foundation was selected as the vendor.  In addition, f ollow ing up on the funding from the State 
Foundation on Cultur e and the Arts .  She also met  several times with HTA and Kilohana to  secure 
the HTA funding so we c ould proceed with the procurement.  Attend ed planning meetings for Lei 
Draping, Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa.  Met with FestPAC and have determined how to incorpor ate 
them into the Oʻahu events including Lei Draping, Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa.  Met with DTS to 
secure permits and secured permits for Aliʻiōlani Hale.  Oversee the review  of the Lei Draping 
protocols and will update and distribute this week along with invi tations.  
III. Financial Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy  noted that the HTA funds were  received  in the 
amount of $140,000 and have been transferred into the KKCC account.  We have also received 
sponsorship from Waimea Falls Park/Marriot for $2,500 and $20,000 from Kamehameha Schools, 
please note they requested we use their  new logo.  In addition, Southwest has provided Kala 
Foundation $5,000 in cash and 28 round tri p tickets .  Also, we are still awaiting the $50,000 from 
the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts.  Amy has sent out requests to the various island 
coordinators to provide proof of matching funds for the HTA grant and has already started to 
received do cumentation.  Tomorrow w e will be providing the neighbor island coordinators with 
information on their specific requirements we will need ed for funding.   
IV. KKCC Business/ Committee  Repo rts 
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Amy reported on behalf of Kainoa that 
FestPAC Delegates will be joining us at Lei Draping so we are providing a tent with chairs 
and Kēhau and Puakeʻala have agreed to be greeters, if anyone else would like to assist  
place let us know.  In addition, we ha ve secured a gr een room for the Lei Draping 
Ceremony at Ali’i ōlani  Hale  but may not be utilizing it as the restrooms in the building are 
not working on the first floor so if you do not use the portable lua you would need to have 
an escort to the second floor after going through security.  No  FestPAC Delegates will be 
in the parade as the coordinators reported they are just overwhelmed  and unable to pull it 
off.  FestPAC  will be taking over the stage at Ho ʻolauleʻa for several hours and 
programming it with performances by Pacific Islanders .  In addition, we were informed 
that the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts is planning to have an augmented reality 
presentation installed accessible via a qr code  at the statue .  The program is being 
implemented by  the Honolulu Theatre for Youth.  The script with plan was shared along 
with the  meeting notice  information .  Commissioners suggested if this is something 
temporary, they have no objection but wanted to know more details  which will be 
communicated to Honol ulu Theatre for Youth. If you have any objections, please send 
them by Thursday.  
b. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Nothing to report.   
c. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report. 
d. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and K ēhaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau provided a report  in her 
absence noting that K eke Kaniho will be replacing Desiree Moana Cruz and he was 
welcomed to the Commission. He  noted he is a cultural board member for the Waimea 
Homestead Association  and is happy to serve.  Kēhau a lso contacted Lilia Kapuniʻai 
regarding application status for the Papakōlea Community Association C ommission seat 
for an update  but got no response . Pam Alconcel from Lānaʻi island consented to represent 
Lānaʻi as commissioner after her evening class is finished on June 28. She was recently 
sent the doc ument  with the steps to apply for a  commission seat. Mahalo to K ēhaulani 
Keana ʻaina for following up w ith Pamela.   
e. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
f. Friends of KKCC -- Nothing to report .  
g. Outreach and Education  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report . 
V. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kalei Hoffman)  -- Nothing to report.  
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa, P āʻū (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade  Chair and Hoʻolauleʻa  
Chair) -- Clint reported  permits and all plans are in place for Lei Draping, Parade and 
Hoʻolauleʻa.  We have secured Pier 9 and 10 for  float building f rom Wednesday through 
Friday .  FestPAC will be taking over the stage with various cultural performances from 
Polynesia  from noon – 5 pm at the Kapiʻolani Park Bandstand.  We have the final p ractice 
tomorrow for lei draping.  KHON will be filming Lei Draping and Parade.  
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Louise has already made the arrangements for the 
additional tent,  tables, chairs and lu a.  Everything is set and we are ready to go. 
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leina ʻāla Lopez ) -- Leinaʻā la reported that they full steam 
ahead and fillowing up on final details.  They meet tomorrow as a committee and will meet 
through Saturday. Leinaʻala asked what needs to be prepared to encumber the funding and 
Clint instructed her and everyone to do same as  last year with KPI ’s as he anticipates the 
reporting mechanisms will be similar.  Amy advised that in the next day or so, we will 
distribute some information on what is needed to get reimbursed.  
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Moa nikeʻala  noted there is no 
Marshal or Pā ʻū Queen this year but all 8 islands are full.  They have no county fair this 
year so bringing the event to central  Maui is welcomed .  Moani noted she will be providing 
assistance at Lei Draping . 
f. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.   
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Keke reported Lei Draping will begin at 9 am with 
parade and Hoʻolauleʻa to follow.    
h. Kona Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina) --  Nothing to report.  
VI. Commissioner  reports/updates non -island specific representatives   
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing to report.  
b. ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report.  
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- Nothing to report    
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Nothing to 
report.   
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Nothing to report .   
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) -- Kēhau provided a report in her 
absence that the  association will have at least one Hawaiian C ivic C lub, Pearl Harbor, to 
pay tribute to our A liʻi at the Lei Draping C eremony this Friday. Regarding the parade, 
three clubs will participate with one  trolley and two  decorated vehicles.  The 65th annual 
convention, themed Ka Laʻi o Hauola (The peace of Hauola  - [ancient surfing area of 
Lāhaina, Maui]), will be held in Waikīkī, Oʻahu on November 10- 17. The association plans 
to send a letter to the governor regarding the concerns of the Mauna ʻAla kahu selection 
process.  
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Jame Schaedel ) -- Jame had nothing to report 
but extended a mahalo to Kainoa, Ian and Amy for their efforts in securing the 
Kamehameha Schools sponsorship.  Ian noted that w here we were previously getting our  
funding which  use to be somewhat  stable however, now the th e person and that department 
are gone so we are not sure what department will handle these  kinds of things  in the future .  
We are h ope to find a permanent home under the new  division.  
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes  Association  (Leilani  Kahaono)  -- Nothing to report.  
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to report.   
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Kalei Hoffman ) -- Nothing to report. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Leinaʻala Bishaw ) -- Nothing to report.   
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report . 
VII. Public Testimony -- LuAnn Faborito noted that her questions were answered as she wanted to 
know if there were tents and chairs at Lei Draping.     
VIII. Upcoming Meeting  -- The next meeting  is currently scheduled for  Tuesday , July 9, 2024.  
IX. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  6:45 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/7-9-24-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes-DRAFT.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:   Tuesday,  July 9, 2024 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
 
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal Order of Kamehameha I), Louise Alina  
(‘Ahahui Ka‘ahumanu), Ian Custino  (Hale O Nā Ali‘i  O Hawaiʻi), Puakeʻala Mann, Daughters & Sons  
of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua , Kēhaulani Keana‘aina, Daughters of Hawai’i , Beverly Lee 
(Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs , Pending),  Jame Schaedel , (Kamehameha Schools Alumni 
Association) , Kimo Keaulana , (Kapahulu Music Club), Leilani Kahoano , (Waim ānalo Hawaiian 
Homestead Association) , Lein āʻala Lopez  (Island of Molokaʻi ) 
 
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Kala Foundation), Beverly Lee, (Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs , 
Pending) , Marlene Wilson , (Waim ānalo  Hawaiian Homestead Association ), Pam Alconel , (Island of 
Lānaʻi  pending), ChunKB . 
       
I. Call to Order, Roll Call and Reminders, E stablish Q uorum  -- Meeting called to order at 
6:04 p.m. by Kainoa Daines , Chair .  Meeting minutes for May  and June  were tabled due to lack of 
quorum.  No public testimony was provided .  Kainoa welcomed Pam Alconel who was born and 
raised on Lānaʻi and works with the University of Hawaiʻi Maui Campus.  
II. Executive Director ’s Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy reported that she has been completing her 
regular duties and tasks for DAGS  finalizing the  year end paperwork  including things like the 
Organizational  Charts and Functional Statements for FY 2024 and provided a r eview of the 
program Structure and Performance Measures .  On July 1 the King Kamehameha Celebration 
Commission Department was officially transferred to the Department of Business and Economic 
Development .  She has been preparing the information to solicit a second procurement  which will 
be issued once the funders ar e in our account .  Amy contacted the State Foundation on Culture and 
the Arts  regarding our 2025 Lei Draping Funding.  In her role as Executive Director,  she executed 
the Oʻahu  Lei Draping, Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa.  Followed up with DTS to ensure the 2025 
application for the Oʻahu Parade permit is in process.  Updated the website with the 2025 Oʻahu 
information.  Contacted the Honolulu Theatre for Youth to advise that the C ommission is fine with 
their temporary QR code display.  Ian suggested to submit the M ayors Office of Culture and the 
Arts information as Chassity Santiago is leaving on the 12th, she will be honored at the Prince Lot 
Hula Festival on the 20th.  
III. Financial Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy  noted that she submitted the request for payment to 
State Foundation on Culture and the Arts for the procurement.  We are awaiting the second portion 
of the payment to be received in our account so an additional procurement can be issued.  We are 
awaiting the check from Kamehameha School as we do not have it  in hand as our neighbor 
accident ally took the check.  In addition, we are still awaiting the $50,000 from the State  
Foundation on Culture and the Arts  to be transferred into our account .  Kala Foundation will be 
working directly with neighbor island coordinators to secure the information needed for 
reimbursement of expenditures and will pay once they receive payment from the state.  All the 
requis itions for current procurement payments have been submitted for the funds that are in our 
account.  We are awaiting to meet with DBEDT  as we are new to the department.  
IV. KKCC Business/ Committee  Repo rts 
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa gave a big mahalo to everyone 
statewide for the support and execution.  We will be doing an onboarding for the new 
Commissioners.  He  is targeting a n in-person planning meeting the future.  Kainoa  also 
noted he would like to meet with each Commissio ner and the head of each organization 
that is represented to learn more about how we can work together more closely.  If you are 
a chair of a committee who wants to change roles please let us know.  
b. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Nothing to report.   
c. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Kainoa noted for discussion in the future that we are 
looking to possibly take over the landscaping of the mound in Honolulu.  We are hoping to 
work with a funder to offset the cost.  A landscaper looked at the mound and suggested it 
might take up to a year to improve the quality of the mound on Oʻahu.  There were also 
cracks in the cement around the per imeter as well so we are looking to do preventative 
maintenance.  Kimo suggested that we create a short, medium and long term plan for the 
area.   
d. Retention  (Kēhaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhaulani  acknowledge Kēhau Peʻa ’s dedication and 
commitment to the retention and the Commission.  Louise Alina has applied for her second 
term and confirmed with Wendy Kondo.  Jame Schadel has been approved for a four- year 
term.  Desiree Moana Cruz has relinquished her seat to Keke K aniho.  She noted this  is the 
first time since 2019 that we have the Lānaʻi seat applicant, so we are grateful.   We have 
14 of the 15 seats filled.  Still struggling to have the Papakōlea seat filled.  Throughout the 
connections and network,  we have through the C ommission we are hopeful to have a full 
Commission . Anyone expiring in 2025 should already be looking for their replacements.  
We will r emove Li lia Ka punʻai off the information  moving forward as there was confusion 
with Boards and Commissions.      
e. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
f. Friends of KKCC -- Nothing to report .   
g. Outreach and Education  -- Nothing to report .   
V. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kalei Hoffman)  -- Nothing to report.  
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa, P āʻū (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade  Chair and Hoʻolauleʻa  
Chair) -- Clint reported  that we are in the process of collecting reports and create the report 
for HTA to receive the final 30% payment.  We are working on getting our permits and all 
plans started for 2025.  Please submit your reports as soon as possible as we are still 
awaiting the funding.         
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Louise shared a big mahalo with everyone for their 
assistance this year  everything went well .  She is prepa ring all of the financial reports for 
submission.  The parking was a challenge due to FestPAC but she knows it will be better 
next year.  Kainoa thanked Kēhau, Puakeʻala and Kimo for all of their assistance.  
Puakeʻala noted that the dignitaries were very honored to present the lei to honor King 
Kamehameha.  She noted that there was not water in the green room but she was able to 
secure it eventually and was also very grateful for the lei presented to the attendees.  She 
noted also that Kēhau Pea was very helpful.   
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leina ʻāla Lopez ) -- Leinaʻā la reported everything went 
well.  They did not sell as many tickets for Friday night as they did it online .  It was  
challenging this year as t hey also clashed with the Sustainable Market that is held monthl y.  
Saturday was the Hoʻolauleʻa and they brought in Kamakakehau Fernandez .  The  event 
went very well.          
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Nothing to report. 
f. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Kainoa noted  that he was hopeful that in the future there can be some 
activities on island.  He expressed his gratitude for Pam’s participation.  
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Keke Kaniho ) -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kona Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina) – K ēhaulani noted that the parade 
was successful but due to most of the parking lots that used to be free are  now paid 
attendance was impacted .  She also noted that there were many political units .  On O ʻahu 
our rule is incumbents  only and no campaigning.  
VI. Commissioner  reports/updates non -island specific representatives   
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Nothing to report. 
b. ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report.  
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- Nothing to report    
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Nothing to 
report.   
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  -- October 5 is  Day at Queen Emma 
Summer Palace and they are looking for food trucks and craft vendors.    
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Beverly Lee, pending)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Jame  Schaedel ) -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes  Association  (Leilani  Kahaono)  -- Nothing to report.  
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Keke Kaniho)  -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to report.  
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Kalei Hoffman ) -- Nothing to report. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Leinaʻala Bishaw ) -- Nothing to report.   
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report . 
VII. Public Testimony -- Nothing to report. 
VIII. Upcoming Meeting  -- The next meeting  is currently scheduled for  Tuesday , August 13, 2024.  
IX. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  6:50 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/8-13-24-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:   Tuesday,  August 13, 2024 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
 
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal Order of Kamehameha I), Louise Alina  
(‘Ahahui Ka‘ahumanu), Ian Custino  (Hale O Nā Ali‘i  O Hawaiʻi), Jame Schaedel , (Kamehameha 
Schools Alumni Association) , Lein āʻala Lopez  (Island of Molokaʻi ), Moani Whittle -Wagner , Island of 
Maui  
 
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Kala Foundation), Pam Alconel , (Island of Lānaʻi  pending), Karen 
Winpenny  
       
I. Call to Order, Roll Call and Reminders, E stablish Q uorum  -- Meeting called to order at 
6:04 p.m. by Kainoa Daines , Chair .  Meeting minutes for May , June  and July were approved.  
Note the meeting minutes are posted on the King Kamehameha website. No public testimony was 
provided . 
II. Executive Director ’s Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy reported that she has been completing her 
regular duties and tasks  and spent  time r eview ing the HTA Grant f unding process.  She has been 
preparing the information to solicit a second procurement  which will be issued once the funds are 
in our account .  Amy contacted the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts  regarding our 2025 
Lei Draping Fundi ng and is awaiting instructions .  She is currently gathering information for the 
HTA report.  P lease provide any event information for 2025 events so we can complete the 
website updates .   
III. Financial Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy  noted that she submitted the request for payment to 
State Foundation on Culture and the Arts for the procurement.  We are awaiting the second portion 
of the payment to be received HTA in our account so an additional procurement can be issued.  In 
addition, we are sti ll awaiting the $50,000 from the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts  to be 
transferred into our account .  Kala Foundation will be working directly with neighbor island 
coordinators to secure the information needed for reimbursement of expenditures and will pay 
once they receive payment from the S tate.  We are securing meeting dates  with DBEDT  as we are 
new to the department.  We received 1 report so far from outer island events and waiting for rest of 
the islands and will disperse 70% after receiving it .  Final 30% balance will be paid upon receiving 
payment from the State after reports are accepted by HTA .  Just a reminder to turn in your reports 
if you wish to be reimbursed.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
IV. KKCC Business/ Committee  Repo rts 
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa  noted he would like to meet with 
each Commissioner and the head of each organization that is represented to learn more 
about how we can work together more closely.  We will be reaching out to schedule a 
meeting so please let us kn ow your availabli ty when you receive an email from Amy.  We 
would like to clarify each organizations role.  We are looking to have a theme selected for 
the statewide marketing so please forward to Amy at your earliest convenience.  
b. VOTE:  Kainoa noted that this vote is related to HTA funding.  We are looking to return to 
the local funding rather than the statewide umbrella funding we are currently doing for the 
past few years .  As a State Agency, KKCC must follow State Procurement Office (S PO) 
procedures, and it is very complex. When we received funds from HTA through the grant 
process there is a great time delay creating lack of interest in procurement and frustration.  
KKCC  writes  the grant  and then  must  wait  for 70%  of the funds  to be transferred  to the 
State  if awarded  and then  into the KKCC  Trust  Fund after  all compliances  are met.   Then  
we must  procure  and award  the partial  funds. The  entity  awarded  must  front  a significant  
amount  of the funds  with  no guarantee  when  payment  will be  recei ved. Then, only after all 
approved events and reports are completed and received can we submit them to HTA 
to receive the  balance (30%) of  the funding. Again,  there is  a time  delay  for those  
funds  (the 30%  balance)  to be received  from  HTA  as it must  be transferred  to the State  and 
then into the KKCC  Trust  Fund.  Then  once  again,  the funds  need  to be procured,  like with  
the initial 70%  payment  from  HTA.  Once  any additional  work  has been  completed  and 
reports  submitted,  we await  the funds  to be received  from  HTA,  then  transferred  to the 
State  and then  transferred  into the KKCC  Trust  Fund.  The  funds  may  be released  to the 
entity  awarded  only after the funds  have  been  encumbered  and requisitioned from  the State  
which  takes  one to three and in some  cases  up to  12 months  for the  entity  awarded  from  the 
procurement. It was noted that  his year  the HTA Funding Requests  for Proposal  are due  on 
September  20, 2024. Jame suggested that  we should advocate for general  funds  to 
appropriate  funding for event  execution.  
Vote :  Effective immediately and to  expedite funding and reimbursements related to event 
execution, the commission calls the vote that island non- profits are independently 
responsible for applying for and managing HTA grants for Kamehameha Celebration events.   Motion moved by Ian and seconded by Jame  with the motion  passed unanimously. 
c. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Nothing to report.   
d. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
e. Retention  (Kēhaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Leilani submitted a report noting an u pdate 
requested:  Follow up on submitting to the Governor for the Hawaiian Lei Sellers 
Association seat for the future.  This discovery was made recently through Hawaiʻi State 
Archives research for something else and t o have been one of the historical appointed 
seats.   
f. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Friends of KKCC -- Nothing to report .   
h. Outreach and Education  -- Nothing to report .   
V. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kalei Hoffman)  -- Nothing to report.  
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa, P āʻū (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade  Chair and Hoʻolauleʻa  
Chair) -- Clint reported  Oʻahu Pā'ū applications are out. Deadline is August 31, 2024.        
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report.   
 
 
  
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leina ʻāla Lopez ) -- Nothing to report.  
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Moani noted that the Parade 
date has been set Sat urday, June 21, 2025 with the location still to be determined .  They are 
looking to potentially hold the parade in various communities  over the next few years so 
when they return to Lahaina the communities will hopefully participate .  All eight islands 
are full for the Pāʻu Units.  Kainoa recognized the Ma ui fires and had a moment of silence 
for Maui.  
f. Lānaʻ i (Pam Alconel, pending)  -- Nothing to report. 
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Keke Kaniho ) -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kona Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina) --  Nothing to report. 
VI. Commissioner  reports/updates non -island specific representatives   
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Royal Order will be recognizing Louise 
Alina this year for her service in the Hawaiian community.  
b. ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report.  
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- They will be holding a convention on Kauaʻi from 
October 19 – 22.  The Kahuna Nui is  Leimomi Kahn.    
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Nothing to 
report.   
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Nothing to report.    
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Beverly Lee, pending)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Jame  Schaedel ) -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes  Association  (Leilani  Kahaono)  – Nothing to report.  
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Keke Kaniho ) -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani inquired about the use of the 
Southwest Airline tickets if we plan to use them for a planning meeting/retreat in hopes of 
meeting in the first quarter of 2025.  
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Kalei Hoffman ) -- Nothing to report. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Leinaʻala Bishaw ) -- Nothing to report.   
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Pam Alconel, pending)  -- Nothing to report . 
VII. Public Testimony -- Nothing to report. 
VIII. Upcoming Meeting  -- The next meeting  is currently scheduled for  Tuesday , September 10 , 2024.  
IX. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  6:48 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/5-14-24-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King  Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:   Tuesday,  May 14, 2024 
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
 
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:  Kainoa Daines, (Royal Order of Kamehameha), Lein āʻala Lopez  
(Island of Molokaʻi ), Moani Whittle -Wagner  (Island of Maui ), Jame Schaedel , (Kamehameha Schools 
Alumni Association ), Louise Alina  (‘Ahahui Ka‘ahumanu), Ian Custino  (Hale O Nā Ali‘i  O Hawaiʻi), 
Kehaulani Keanaʻaina ( Daughters of Hawai’i ), Kēhau Peʻa  (Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs ), 
Kimo Keaulana  (Kapahulu Music Club),  Leilani Kahoano ( Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes Association ), 
Desiree Moana Cruz ( Island of Hawaiʻi ), Kalei Hoffman  (Island of Kauaʻi)  
 
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Kala Foundation), Keke Kaniho  (Hawaiʻi Island Candidate), Beverly Lee, 
(Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs , Pending)  
       
I. Call to Order, Roll Call and Reminders, E stablish Q uorum  -- Meeting called to order at 
6:07 p.m. by Kainoa Daines , Chair .  Meeting minutes were tabled due to lack of quorum.  No 
public testimony was provided .  Feb ruary , March and April Meeting Minutes approved.  
II. Executive Director ’s Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy reported that she has been completing her 
regular duties and tasks for DAGS  as well as  taking care of inventory and year end documentation 
and paperwork.  F ollow ing up on the funding from the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts .  
In addition meeting to secure the  HTA funding so we can move on with procurement.  Attending 
planning meeti ngs for Lei Draping, Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa.  Met with FestPAC and have 
determined how to incorporate them into the Oʻahu events including Lei Draping, Parade and 
Hoʻolauleʻa.  Met with DTS to secure permits and secured permits for Aliʻiōlani Hale.  We have 
been reviewing the Lei Draping protocols and will update and distribute this week along with 
invitations.  
III. Financial Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy  noted that the HTA funds were  received  in the 
amount of $140,000.  A shortened timeframe for procurement of the funds is being released.  Also, 
we are still awaiting the $50,000 from the State Foundation on Culture and the Arts.  Amy has sent 
out requests to the various island coordinators to provide proof of matching funds for the HTA 
grant and has already started to received documentation.  We have not worked with the neighbor 
island coordinators on their specific needs yet but will do so soon.  Since we are not able to put out 
procurements for funds we have not received we will likely have to do two rounds of procurement.   
IV. KKCC Business/ Committee  Repo rts 
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa reported that FestPAC Delegates 
will be joining us at Lei Draping so we are adjusting the schedule and some of the 
protocols.   In addition, we ha ve secured a green room for the Lei Draping Ceremony at 
Ali’i ōlani  Hale.  We will have FestPAC Delegates in the parade,  and FestPAC  will be  
taking over the stage at Ho ʻolauleʻa and programming it with performances by Pacific 
Islanders . 
b. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- Nothing to report.   
c. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report. 
d. Retention  (Kēhau Pe‘a and K ēhaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Kēhau reported the Lānaʻi candidate 
has declined to participate so Kēhaulani is looking to reach her by phone in search of  an 
alternative candidate with Moani to provide .  Keke Kaniho  will be replacing Desiree 
Moana Cruz .     
e. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo shared that on Sunday, June 9 Dr.  
Williams wll be holding a session on King Kamehameha I .  Kimo will forward the 
information on the event to be shared with everyone.  
f. Friends of KKCC -- Nothing to report .  
g. Outreach and Education  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report , however, Desiree 
volunteered to continue to participate  on the Outreach and Education Committee  after  her 
Commission seat expires.  
V. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kalei Hoffman)  -- Kalei reported that they are plugging away and 
excited for the events coming up next month.  They have a small hic cup with one of the 
pāʻu positions  but they will work it out . 
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa, P āʻū (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade  Chair and Hoʻolauleʻa  
Chair) -- Clint reported  that we are in full swing getting everything ready, still accepting 
applications, we are still working on sponsorship and locking down a few more things.  We 
do not have Convention Center or Blaisdell for float building but are working on a space at 
the harbor and will send out more details once confirmed.  FestPAC will be taking over the 
stage with various performances from Polynesia.  If you have not submitted your parade 
applications please submit as soon a s possible.   
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Louise has already made the arrangements for the 
tables, chairs and lua same as last year.  We are still reviewing the protocols and have  
updated with some clarifications.    
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leinaʻā la Lopez ) -- Leinaʻā la reported that on F riday is the 
gala and Dillon will be the emcee.  Hoʻolauleʻa is set for Saturday.  They are planning to 
print a 48’ image of the statue and drape the statue print at the gala.  
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Moanikeʻala  invited anyone 
who wants to join the event.  There will be 5 different stations on the parade route  from 
Baldwin down to Queen Kaʻahumanu.  Emcees include  Kamalei Kawaʻa and his mother as 
well as  and surprise guests  commentating on the parade route .  They will be holding the 
princess inter views this week.  They are very excited to be able to do the parade and get  all 
of the communities involved.  The route will be from Baldwin High School going down 
Kaʻahumanu toward the mall with the h orses ending at the area by the old Sears store and 
the awards will be within the mall.  The parade is June 15.  Moani noted she will be 
coming to Oʻahu to assist with the  Lei Draping.  
f. Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Desiree reported that she received an update from 
the Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association who manages the Hilo Lei Draping.  Micah 
Alameda invited  the C ommission to atte nd the Lei Drapaing on June 10 at 5 pm . 
h. Kona Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina) --  Kēhaulani reported she has a 
pāʻū workshop on May 18th.  They are still activily searching and adding units to the Kona 
Parade in conjunction with Daughters of Hawaiʻi .  On June 8 they will be shutting down 
the majority of Aliʻi Dr. and will hold a Hoʻolauleʻa at t he Hu ileʻe Palace Grounds at 7 pm.   
They are working wth the business association and will be holding a block party.  She also 
noted they will be attending the Lei Draping Ceremony on Oʻahu.  KK Kaniho reported he 
will be attending a meeting next week rega rding the plans for Kohala.  
VI. Commissioner  reports/updates non -island specific representatives   
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa reported they will be building the 
Moʻi and Royal Order Floats.   
b. ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Louise inquired if Lei Draping practice has been 
scheduled but it has not yet been set.  
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- Nothing to report    
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Nothing to 
report.   
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Nothing to report .   
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Kēhau Peʻ a) -- Nothing to report .  
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Jame  Schaedel ) -- Jame reported KSAA has 
signed up to participate in the parade.    
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes  Association  (Leilani  Kahaono)  -- Nothing to report.  
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Desiree Moana Cruz)  -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Nothing to report.  
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Kalei Hoffman ) -- Nothing to report. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Leinaʻala Bishaw ) -- Nothing to report.   
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Vacant)  -- Nothing to report . 
VII. Public Testimony -- Nothing to report.    
VIII. Upcoming Meeting  -- The next meeting  is currently scheduled for  Tuesday , June 4, 2024.  
IX. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  6:55 p.m.

--- Text from PDF (https://sfca.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/9-10-24-KKCC-Meeting-Minutes-Draft.pdf) ---
JOSH GREEN , M.D.  
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
                                    KEITH A. REGAN 
                                     COMPTROLLER  
                   KA LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ 
 
                                MEOH -LENG SILLIMAN  
                               DEPUTY COMPTROLLER 
                KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOMALU HANA LAULĀ  
 
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI | KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI 
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND GENERAL SERVICES | KA ʻOIHANA LOIHELU A LAWELAWE LAULĀ  
P.O. BOX  119, HONOLULU,  HAWAII  96810 -0119  
 
King Kamehameha  Celebration  Commission  Meeting  Minutes  
 
Date:   Tuesday,  September 10 , 2024  
Time:  6:00 p.m.  
Place:   Zoom and State Foundation on Culture and the Arts Multipurpose Room  
 
Commission Attendees  Per Roll Call:  Kainoa Daines  (Royal Order of Kamehameha I), Louise Alina  
(‘Ahahui Ka‘ahumanu), Moani Whittle -Wagner  (Island of Maui ), Kimo Keaulana  (Kapahulu Music 
Club),  Puakeʻala Mann  (Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors), Kalei Hoffman  (Island of Kauaʻi) , 
Kehaulani Keanaʻaina (Daughters of Hawai’i) , Leilani Kahoano  (Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes 
Association)  
 
Attendees:   Clint Kalaola  (Kala Foundation), Marlene Wilson  (Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes 
Association)   
       
I. Call to Order, Roll Call and Reminders, E stablish Q uorum  -- Meeting called to order at 
6:02 p.m. by Kainoa Daines , Chair .  Meeting minutes for August  were approved.  No public 
testimony provided.  
II. Executive Director ’s Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy reported that she has been completing her 
regular duties and tasks . In addition, she has completed additional training including W orkplace 
Violence Trai ning, Ethics Training, and Sexual Harass ment Training  as well as the inventory 
report and year end financials .  She has  sent out reminders to encouraging neighbor island partners 
to apply for the HTA grant funding as this will be done by each island and or  event  this year 
individually.  Deadline for HTA grants is Sept. 20, 2024. She is currently gathering information 
for the HTA report.  She has updated the website with application links. If you have additional 
information, please provide any new  information for 2025 events so we can  complete the website 
updates . We are also awaiting finalization of the 2025 theme to update as the site.  She has been 
preparing the information to solicit a second procurement which will be issued once the funds are 
in our account. Note, KKCC has  not been transferred to D BEDT as the bill did not pass at the 
legislature.   Please note that the KKCC Office building currently has a black construction tarp 
surrounding it.  We have been informed that Homeaid is building a 73- unit Kauhale on the 
adjacent large empty lot and the main entrance will be on Iwilei R oad but t he property behind the 
Annex will be a fire lane and back entrance to the project. Kainoa asked that Keith Regan with 
DAGS and or Karen Ewald with SFCA  may joi n us at one of our meetings  to answer questions in 
the next few months . Moani i nquired if this was for a year or what is the length of the t ime would 
we remain under DAGS. Kainoa noted that it would be until someone resurrects the legislation.  
Kainoa noted that during t he last meeting we voted to no longer have the C ommission pur sue the 
funding for HTA so we have decentralized to have each event seek  their own funding in an effort 
to expedite the payments. If you are looking for a letter of support from KKCC please let us know.   
III. Financial Report  (Amy Hammond) -- Amy  noted that she contacted the State Foundation on  
Culture and the Arts regarding our 2025 Lei Draping Funding and is awaiting instructions beyond 
notice to submit the invoice in October.   
IV. KKCC Business/ Committee  Repo rts 
a. Executive Committee Report  (Kainoa Daines)  -- Kainoa  noted he would like to meet with 
each Commissioner and the head of each organization that is represented to learn more 
about how we can work together more closely.  We will be reaching out to schedule a 
meeting so please let us know your availabli ty when you receive an email from Amy.  We 
would like to clarify each organizations role.  We are looking to have a theme selected for 
the statewide marketin g. Kimo suggested Mary Kawena Pukui ’s saying E Hoʻomau – 
Persevere  to continue.  Kainoa noted that a few yea rs prior to COVID we had already 
recognized her but he likes the idea of the theme  even though she was celebrated a few 
years ago.  There will be a one dollar coin through the U.S. Mint  honoring her in 2025.  
Also  Punahou will be opening a building at the end of 2025 also in her honor .  Kainoa 
agreed to select the theme E Hoʻomau. Ian would like to reinstate a Lei Aliʻi partnerships 
with other organizations. Ians suggested that these themes would go across multiple events 
including Prince Kuhio, King Kameha meha and Prince Lot events.  Ian suggested the 
following with respect to the Lei Aliʻi program including:  2 025 E Ola Ka Hula (overall) , 
March -  E Ola Ka Hula: Hula o ka ʻĀina Pulapula (celebrate and educate on homesteads) , 
June -  E Ola Ka Hula: Hula nō nā  Aliʻi (celebrate and educate on commission orgs ./Royal 
Societies) , July -  E Ola Ka Hula: Hula nō nā Wahi Pana (celebrate and educate on 
treasured places) , 2026 E Ola Ka Mele , March -  E Ola Ka Mele: Mele nō nā ʻĀina 
Pulapula  (celebrate and educate on homesteads) , June -  E Ola Ka Mele: Hula nō nā Aliʻi 
(celebrate and educate commission orgs ./Royal Societies) , July -  E Ola Ka Mele: Hula nō 
nā Wahi Pana (celebrate and educate on treasured places) . 
b. Legislative  (Manu Powers)  -- No thing to report , however, Kainoa suggested to see if the 
suggested SFCA transfer will be resurrected in 2025.  Amy noted that non- transfer does 
not preclude us from working with DBEDT on programming. 
c. Statuary  (Kimo Alama Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
d. Retention  (Kēhaulani Keanaʻaina)  -- Nothing to report.   
e. State Archives  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Nothing to report.  
f. Friends of KKCC -- Nothing to report .   
g. Outreach and Education  -- Nothing to report .   
V. Events  
a. Kauaʻi  Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kalei Hoffman)  -- Nothing to report.  
b. Oʻahu , Parade, Hoʻolauleʻa, P āʻū (Clint Kalaola, O ʻahu Parade  Chair and Hoʻolauleʻa  
Chair) -- Nothing to report. 
c. Statue Lei Draping  (Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to report.   
d. Molokaʻi  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Leina ʻāla Lopez ) -- Nothing to report.  
e. Maui  Parade/Hoʻolauleʻa (Moanikeʻala Whittle- Wagner)  -- Nothing to report. 
f. Lānaʻ i (Pam Alconel, pending)  -- Nothing to report. 
g. Island of Hawaiʻi  -- Hilo Lei Draping and Kohala Lei Draping/Parade/ 
Hoʻolauleʻa (Keke Kaniho ) -- Nothing to report.   
h. Kona Parade and Hoʻolauleʻa ( Kēhaulani Keana‘aina) --  Kēhaulani noted their meeting 
will begin next month.  
VI. Commissioner  reports/updates non -island specific representatives   
a. Royal Order of Kamehameha (Kainoa Daines)  -- Royal Order is assisting in building 
floats and decorating vehicles  for Aloha Festivals .  Kainoa noted that Louise recently  
received the Kalani  Aliʻi Award  commenting  her hula was exceptional and speech 
inspirational.   
b. ʻAhahui Ka ‘ahumanu ( Louise Alina)  -- Nothing to repor t. 
c. Hale O Nā Ali‘i  (Ian Custino) -- Nothing to report.   
d. Daughters & Sons of Hawaiian Warriors, Māmakakaua (Puake‘ ala Mann)  -- Puake‘ ala 
noted that Kainoa had given lei to the princess of  Aotearoa  during our Lei Draping 
Ceremony and she is the now the new Queen as the King passed away recently . 
e. Daughters of Hawai‘i  (Kēhaulani Keana‘aina)  -- Kēhaulani reminded everyone  that 
October 5 is Day at Queen Emma Summer Palace from 9 am – 2 pm.  They are seeking 
vendors, donations, etc.  
f. Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs  (Beverly Lee, pending)  -- Nothing to report.  
g. Kamehameha Schools Alumni Association  (Jame  Schaedel ) -- Nothing to report.  
h. Kapahulu Music Club  (Kimo  Alama  Keaulana)  -- Kimo noted that he is also helping the 
Aloha Festivals to wrap the pāʻū riders.    
i. Waimānalo Hawaiian Homes  Association  (Leilani  Kahaono)  -- Leilai reported that they 
provided a submission for themes as well .  She is also hoping that they can create a bus for 
next year to participate in the King Kamehameha Celebration Floral Parade.    
j. Papakōlea Community Association  (Vacant) -- Nothing to report. 
k. Island  of Hawaiʻi  (Keke Kaniho)  -- Nothing to report.  
l. Island  of Maui  (Moanikeʻala Whittle -Wagner)  -- Moani  noted that Aloha Festivals is in 
full swing on Maui.  
m. Island  of Kauaʻi  (Kalei Hoffman ) -- Nothing to report. 
n. Island  of Molokaʻi  (Leinaʻala Bishaw ) -- Nothing to report.    
o. Island  of Lānaʻ i (Pam Alconel, pending)  -- Nothing to report . 
VII. Public Testimony -- Nothing to report. 
VIII. Upcoming Meeting  -- The next meeting  is currently scheduled for  Tuesday , October 8 , 2024.  
IX. Adjourn  -- Meeting adjourned at  6:44 p.m.
