Source URL: https://luc.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Land Use Commission Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaiʻi Land Use Commission Komikina Hoʻohana ʻĀina Search this site Search Youtube icon Home About About the LUC History DBA Procedures Land Use Districts Land Use Commission LUC Members LUC Staff Commissioner Checkpoint Pending Dockets Boundary Amendments A92-683 Halekua Development Corporation (Royal Kunia) Special Permits SP21-412 Mahi Solar SP73-147 Grace Pacific Corp. Makakilo Quarry Declaratory Rulings DR24-77 RK II Partners LLC SP97-390 County of Maui (Remove IAL) SP97-390 County of Maui (Add IAL) Status Reports SP05-399 Kauai ATV A07-773 Emmanuel Lutheran Church of Maui A11-792 COM Dept. of Housing and Human Concerns A84-570 W.H. SHIPMAN A92-683 Halekua Development Corporation A94-705 County of Hawai‘i SP97-390 COM, Department of Public Works Potential/Future Dockets A19-808 C&C Honolulu – Honouliuli A88-627 Gentry Development Company – Motion to Amend (see A19-808 ) A89-642 C. Brewer Properties, INC. Maui Waiehu 201(H) (FUTURE DOCKET) Admin Rules 2023 Proposed Admin Rules LUC Rules Chapter 15-15 DOH Rules Chapter 11-200.1 DLNR Rules Chapter 13-5 Aha Moku Advisory Council HRS **Link to Most Current Version of Statutes** Completed Dockets Boundary Amendments Declaratory Rulings Special Permits Calendar Info All In One Calendar LUC Agenda and Minutes eHawaii Calendar State LUC Maps State LUC Maps Meeting Calendar Agenda & Minutes Receive Agenda Notices Contact Us ALOHA FROM LUC! The State Land Use Law ( Chapter 205 , Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes) was adopted in 1961. Establishing a framework of land use management and regulation in which all lands in the State of Hawaiʻi are classified into one of four land use districts. To administer the Land Use Law the State Legislature established the Land Use Commission (Komikina Hoʻohana ʻĀina). The Commission is composed of nine members, who are appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the State Senate. One member is appointed from each of the four counties; five members are appointed at-large. The Commissioners are non-paid volunteers who represent a cross-section of the community. Documents submitted to the LUC must adhere to the following guidelines: Electronically, in PDF format, via email ( [email protected] ), ensuring ADA compliance. Additionally, a hard copy must be mailed to our office (State Land Use Commission, P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, HI, 96814-2359) Filings received after 4:00 P.M. may not be processed until the following workday. QUICK LINKS OF INFORMATION: Official Record Requests To make a Uniform Information Practices Act (UIPA) request: Must be in writing using the following form: UIPA Fillable Request Form Froms can be submitted to our office via email ( [email protected] ) or mail (P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, Hawaiʻi 96804-2359) Have sufficient contact information for the agency to correspond with you. Provide a reasonable description of the requested record. Preferably a Docket and/or TMK information. State how you would like to receive the record ( e.g., mail, e-mail, etc.). NOTE: When providing our office with a description of the requested record. Please include the docket number and/or TMK you are interested in. This will increase response time. How to Give Public Testimony The LUC welcomes and invites testimony on agenda items via several methods: Written Testimony Online Form: https://luc.hawaii.gov/testimony/ E-mail: [email protected] Mail: State Land Use Commission, P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, HI 96804 Oral Testimony If you intend to provide oral testimony, you must attend the meeting in person at the meeting location indicated on the meeting agenda. Please state your name for the record. If you are testifying on behalf of an organization, please include the name of the organization. Testimony will be limited to a maximum of two minutes per person, per item. Pursuant to HAR §15-15-65 the presiding officer may limit the number of witnesses or the time for testimony upon a particular issue. * Only if the LUC is holding a “Hybrid” Meeting, will we allow testimony via zoom or phone. * Regardless of format, to ensure the Commissioners have time to review your written testimony, we suggest that it reaches us at least 24 hours before the meeting. All written testimony will be posted to the LUC website under the specific docket page. Late written testimony will be retained as part of the record, but we cannot assure the commission will receive it with sufficient time for review prior to decision-making. Click Here to View FULL Guidelines for Testifying at LUC Meetings ADA Accessibility If you use assistive technology and the format of any material on our website interferes with your ability to access the information, please email [email protected] or call the State Land Use Commission at (808) 587-3822 . In your message, please indicate the nature of your accessibility problem, the preferred format in which to receive the requested material, the web address of the requested material, and your contact information so that we may best serve you. The State Land Use Commission wants to ensure access to E-government files are available to all individuals. In 1998, Congress amended the Rehabilitation Act to require Federal agencies to make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities. Inaccessible technology interferes with an individual’s ability to obtain and use information quickly and easily. Section 508 was enacted to eliminate barriers in information technology, to make available new opportunities for people with disabilities, and to encourage development of technologies that will help achieve these goals. This standard was recently refreshed to include Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), a globally recognized voluntary consensus standard for web content and information communication technology created by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). The WCAG 2.0 Level AA standard and the Web Accessibility Initiative Accessible Rich Internet Applications Suite (WAI-ARIA) 1.0 techniques for web content, shall be used to measure accessibility and functionality of on-line content. The State Land Use Commission looks to this standard for reliable guidance on meeting accessibility commitments and compliance for portal architecture sites. Our site contains information from the 1960’s to the present. We are continuing the process of scanning our legacy data files for posting on our website, while requiring all new filings to be in an electronic format. Not all of the files are ADA accessible at this point in time. We will continue to work with applicants on providing new filings that will be compliant with ADA standards, while working to bring our legacy files into future compliance. This site has been designed to be compatible with a wide variety of browsers, and with assistive technologies in mind. Our goal is to continue to work to make access available to all individuals. Improving access to citizens with disabilities is one of our top priorities, and any suggestions or comments are welcome. Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes §368-1.5 : The ADA and the ADAAA are federal civil rights statutes that require state and local governments, including the court system, to accommodate the needs of qualified individuals with disabilities. The Land Use Commission asks that any electronic submittals must be in an ADA Compliant format. Request a Boundary Interpretation Formal boundary interpretations are usually processed and completed within 60 working days based upon the timeliness and adequacy of the material submitted by the requestor as of the submittal date. To request for a boundary interpretation, Click Here . NEXT MEETING TBA DATE TBA Agenda LUC Maps Easily search for information about State Land Use District Boundaries, LUC Docket Numbers, and Counties Tax Map Key Number (TMK).This map was produced by the LUC for informational purposes only. Read More LUC Maps Boundary Interpretation This StoryMap is an introduction to the boundary interpretation process. It walks applicants through the history, required information, and requirements for the Surveyor. Read More Boundary Interpretation Resources Here you will find some helpful resources when seeking information about specific properties in the State of Hawai`i. In some cases you will need to know the tax map key (TMK) numbers associated with land parcels. Read More Resources About Us Contact Us Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://luc.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/Aha-Moku_HAR_10-2016.pdf) ---
1 
	FINAL  RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE	
	
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES	
	
ʻAHA MOKU ADVISORY COMMITTEE	
	
(Effective	October	20,	2016)	
 
 
Part 1  General Provisions	
	
§1-1  Purpose	
§1-2  ʻAha Moku Advisory Committee; Established	
§1-3  Definitions and Terminology	
§1-4  Office 	
§1-5  Hours	
§1-6  Meetings	
§1-7  Membership Terms 
§1-8  Quorum	
§1-9  Authentication	
§1-10  Chairperson	
§1-11  Vice -Chairperson	
§1-12  Executive Director	
	
	
Part 2   ʻAha Moku System	
	
§2-1  Purpose	
§2-2  Application of Hawaiian Indigenous Methodologies and Best Practices 	
§2-3  Advisory Functions of the ʻAha Moku Advisory Committee 
§2-4  ʻAha Moku Structure	
§2-5  Communication Process 	
  
 
Part 3  Mokupuni; Moku; Ahupua‘a; ʻIli  
 
§3-1  Niʻihau O Kahelelani (Niʻihau) 	
§3-2  Kauaʻi O Manokalanipō (Kauaʻi)	
§3-3  Oʻahu O Kākuhihewa (Oʻahu)	
§3-4  Moloka‘i Pule O‘o (Molokaʻi) 	
§3-5  Lāna‘i A Kaululāʻau (Lānaʻi) 	
§3-6  Kohe Malamalama O Kanaloa (Kahoʻolawe) 	
§3-7  Moku O Piʻilani (Maui)	
§3-8  Moku O Keawe (Hawaiʻi) 2 
	Part 4  Severability 
 
§4-1  Severability 	
 	
 
PART 1	
                   	
GENERAL PROVISIONS	
	
	
 §1-1 Purpose. This part governs the practice and procedure of the ʻAha Moku 
Advisory Committee of the State of Hawaiʻi under Act 288 (SLH 2012),  H.R.S. § 171-4.5. 		 §1-2  ʻAha Moku Advisory Committee; Established.  (a) There is established 
the ʻaha moku advisory committee to be placed within the department of land and natural 
resources for administrative purposes. The committee may advise the chairperson of the 
board of land and natural resources in carrying out the purposes of this part. 	
 (b) The committee shall consist of eight members appointed by the governor and 
confirmed by the senate from a list of nominations submitted by the ʻaha moku councils of each island. Oversight of the committee shall be by the chairperson of the board of 
land and natural resources. The committee members shall vote for the committee 
chairperson and vice-chairperson from among its members. 	 (c) The members shall not receive compensation for their servi ce, but shall be 
reimbursed for necessary expenses, including travel expenses, incurred while participating in meetings and events approved in advance by the chairperson of the board 
of land and natural resources. 	
 (d) The committee may hire an executive director who shall be exempt from 
Chapter 76, Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes. The executive director may hire an administrative or executive assistant to assist the executive director in accomplishing the purposes of the 
committee.	
 (e) The committee may provide advice on the following: 	
(1) Integrating indigenous resource management practices with western management practices in each moku;  
(2) Identifying a comprehensive set of indigenous practices for natural resource management; 
(3) Fostering the understanding and practical use of Native Hawaiian resource knowledge, methodology, and expertise;  
(4) Sustaining the State’s marine, land, cultural, agricultural, and natural resources; 
(5) Providing community education and fostering cultural awareness on th e 
benefits of the ʻaha moku system; 
(6) Fostering protection and conservation of the State’s natural resources; and, 3 
	(7) Developing an administrative structure that oversees the ʻaha moku 
system.  
 (f)The committee shall support and accurately represent information, decisions, 
recommendations, and actions passed from and initiated by the island ʻaha moku 
councils.	
 (g)The committee shall proactively advise the department and its divisions, as 
well as collaborate with state, county, and federal agencies, and the state legislature on how to affirmatively protect and preserve Native Hawaiian rights, traditional and 
customary practices, and natural and cultural resources that are protected as part of the 
public trust.  Namely, the committee shall provide guida nce to agencies and the state 
legislature for practical and customized application of statutory and constitutional protections of Native Hawaiian rights and the public trust, and judicial cases respecting 
the same.	
 (h) The committee shall engage Native Ha waiian individuals and communities, 
policy-makers and decision-makers, and other various stakeholders committed to conservation and preservation of natural and cultural resources through annual puwalu 
and initiate a process to integrate findings, respond to concerns, and implement recommendations resulting from puwalu convenings. 	
 (i) The committee shall submit an annual report in English and Hawaiian to the 
legislature and the chairperson of the board of land and natural resources no later than twenty days prior to the convening of each regular legislative session. The annual report 
shall include a list of all recommendations made by the committee, island ʻaha councils, 
and resulting from Puwalu, and the related actions taken by the depart ment over the 
course of the prior year. 	
		
§1-3 Definitions and Terminology. As used in this part, unless the context 
requires otherwise: 	
 “Agency” means the department of land and natural resources, its divisions, and  
any federal, state or county agency that the department advises.	
“ʻAha Moku Advisory Committee” means the established committee comprised 
of members representing each of the eight main Hawaiian islands placed within the department of land and natural resources for administrative purposes. 	
 “Ahupua‘a” means smaller land divisions located within larger land districts 
(moku) with specific geographic features on land and may also encompass features 
extending into the sea. Ahupuaʻa are land divisions usually extending from the uplands to 
the sea, so called because the boundary was marked in ancient times by a heap (ahu) of 
stones surmounted by an image of a pig (puaʻa) where tribute was laid as tax to the chief. 
Ahupuaʻa are community-level land division components that have been implemented in 
various ways, as part of a larger social-ecological system, with the aim of maximizing 
resource availability and abundance.  Ahupuaʻa are culturally appropriate, ecologically 
aligned, and place specific units of land with access to diverse resources.  Ahupuaʻa are 
managed along several bio-cultural zones called Wao. 	
 “ʻĀina” means literally “that which feeds.” ʻĀina is the land, and more broadly 4 
	the environment.  Also inherent in the word ʻāina is a recognition of native Hawaiian 
genealogical relationships to the natur al environment and their physical, cultural, and 
spiritual interactions with the land.  	      “Board” means the Board of Land and Natural Resources. 	
      “Chairperson” means the chairperson of the ʻAha Moku Advisory Committee. 	
 “Code of conduct” means pono cultural protocol(s) used by respective moku to 
sustain and protect the natural and cultural resources within that moku. 	
 “Collaborative governance” is a governing arrangement wherein one or more 
public agencies, such as the department of land and natu ral resources and its divisions, 
directly engage non-state stakeholders, such as the ʻaha moku advisory committee and 
island ʻaha moku councils, in a collective decision -making process that is formal, 
consensus-oriented, and deliberative and that aims to make or implement public policy or manage public programs or assets. Collaboration implies two -way communication and 
influence between agencies and stakeholders. Although ultimate authority lies with the 
department, stakeholders directly participate in the decision-making process.	
     “Committee” means the ʻAha Moku Advisory Committee.	“Department” means the Department of Land and Natural Resources, its 
divisions, and also any boards, commissions, or programs established within the Department of Land and Natural Resources. 
“Free, prior, and informed consent” is based on the right of Indigenous Peoples to 
control their own future and the future of their people.  It is the right of Indigenous 
Peoples, including Native Hawaiians, to give or withhold consent to  actions that affect 
their ancestral lands, natural, and cultural resources. 	
 “ʻIke” is traditional Native Hawaiian knowledge. 	
 “ʻIli” means a land section, next in importance to ahupuaʻa and usually a 
subdivision of an ahupuaʻa.  There are several types of ʻili.  ʻIli may comprise a single, 
contiguous strip of land within an ahupuaʻa called ʻili paʻa.  ʻIli lele typically included 
non-contiguous portions of mountain, inland, and wetland sections to serve as the ʻumeke 
ʻai (“that which filled the poi bowl” and a fishery for the ipukai (“meat bowl”) for 
extended ʻohana. The ʻili kūpono were considered politically unassociated with the 
ahupuaʻa where it is geographically situated. Thus, Native Hawaiian ʻili tenants may have 
distinct rights within their ʻili, but not within the entire ahupuaʻa, and vice versa. 	
 “Island ʻaha moku councils” are locally-established councils on each island at the 
mokupuni and moku level who engage, collaborate, communicate, and transmit 
information, findings, recommendations, and decision-making on issues impacting 
natural and cultural resources to their respective island Poʻo. 	
 “Ka Lewalani” is a resource realm which the ancient ʻaha councils considered 
when making decisions.  It encompasses everything above the land, the air, the  sky, the 
clouds, the birds, the rainbows, etc.  “Ka Pae ʻĀina” is the Hawaiian islands.	
 “Kahakai Pepeiao” is a resource realm which  the ancient ʻaha councils considered 
when making decisions.  It begins where the high tide is to where the lepo starts.  This is 
typically the splash zone where crab, limu, and ʻopihi may be located; sea cliffs; or a 5 
	gentle shoreline dotted with a coastal strand of vegetation; sands where turtles and 
seabirds nest; extensive sand dune environs; and the like.  
 “Kamaʻāina” is a Native Hawaiian born and raised on a certain ʻāina (mokupuni, 
moku, and/or ahupuaʻa), and gains knowledge and familiarity of his/her  place and the 
traditions and customs practiced therein. 	
 “Kamaʻāina expert testimony” means testimony from a Native Hawaiian person 
who is familiar from childhood with a particular locality.  Testimony from kamaʻāina is recognized as the appropriate method to determine the nature of Hawaiian traditional and 
customary practices in general, and also specifically in describing the customs exercised 
in a given area.  50 H. 452, 440 P.2d 76.	
“Kanaka Hōnua” is a resource realm which the ancient ʻaha councils considered 
when making decisions.  It includes the natural resources important to sustain people.  
However, care for these resources are based on their intrinsic value.  Management is 
based on providing for the benefit of  the resources themselves, rather than from the 
perspective of how these resources serve people.	 “Kauaʻi O Manokalanipō” is the Native Hawaiian traditional name for the island 
of Kauaʻi.	 “Ke ʻIhiʻihi” is a resource realm which the ancient ʻaha councils c onsidered when 
making decisions.  Ke ʻIhiʻihi are the tangible and intangible elements that maintain the sanctity or sacredness of certain places that are culturally and spiritually important to 
Native Hawaiians. 
 “Kiaʻi ʻĀina” means one who cares for and possesses the knowledge of caring for 
ʻāina.  It is also the act of caring for ʻāina. 	
 “Kilo” means an observer with ancestral knowledge. 	
 “Kohe Malamalama O Kanaloa” is the Native Hawaiian traditional name for the 
island of Kahoʻolawe.	
 “Kuleana” means responsibility, right, and privilege.	
 “Kumulipo” means the Native Hawaiian creation chant. 	
 “Kūpuna” means Native Hawaiian elders who maintain ʻike.  Kūpuna also means 
Native Hawaiian ancestors.	 “Lāna‘i O Kaululāʻau” is the Native Hawaiian  traditional name for the island of 
Lānaʻi.  “Lepo” means soil. 
 “Limu” means Hawaiʻi’s edible seaweeds. 	
 “Mālama ʻĀina” means to care for and/or responsibly manage the land , ocean, 
natural and cultural resources, and ecosystems with the understanding that humans are also part of the natural environment and active participants in its care. 	
 “Ma Uka” is a resource realm which the ancient ʻaha councils considered when 
making decisions. It begins from the point where the lepo starts to the top of the 
mountain.	
 “Mele” means a traditional Native Hawaiian song.	
 “Moana-Nui-Ākea” is a resource realm which the ancient ʻaha councils 
considered when making decisions.  It is the farthest out to sea or along the ocean’s 
horizon one could perceive from atop the highest vantage point in  one’s area.	6 
	 “Moku” means large, regional, traditional land districts located within a 
mokupuni which also typically encompass several ahupuaʻa.  	
 “Moku o Keawe” is the Native Hawaiian traditional name for the island of 
Hawaiʻi.	
 “Moku o Piʻilani” is the Native Hawaiian traditional name for the island of Maui. 	
 “Moku representative” is a representative on an island moku council.  The moku 
representative possesses the desirable leadership qualities and/or traditional ʻike 
identified and valued by participants in a respective island moku council. 	
 “Mokupuni” means island.	
 “Moloka‘i Pule O’o” is the Native Hawaiian traditional name for the island of 
Molokai.	 “Moʻolelo” means a Native Hawaiian story, tale, myth, history, or tradition.	
“Nā Muliwai” is a resource realm which the ancient ʻaha councils considered 
when making decisions.  It comprises of all the sources of fresh water, ground or artesian water, rivers, streams, springs, including coastal springs that create brackish -water and 
contribute to healthy and productive estuarine environments.	 “Native Hawaiian” means any individual any of whose ancestors were natives of 
the area which consists of the Hawaiian Islands prior to 1778.  
 “Niʻihau O Kahelelani” is the Native Hawaiian traditional name for the is land of 
Niʻihau.	 “Oʻahu O Kākuhihewa” is the Native Hawaiian traditional name for the island of 
Oʻahu.	 “ʻOhana” means indigenous Native Hawaiian  families. 	
 “Oli” means a traditional Native Hawaiian chant. 
 “ʻOpihi” means limpets.	
 “Orature” is the body of knowledge of Native Hawaiian kūpuna of the ancient 
past and ʻike holders of present day as evidenced through oral accounts conveyed in 
moʻolelo, oli, and mele.  These vehicles of Native Hawaiian orature describe and 
interpret subject matter from the Native Hawaiian past in the context of the worldview 
Hawaiian language frames.  It is also a pathway for appreciating aspects of the wor ldview 
itself via definitions understood in their appropriate traditional contexts.  Native Hawaiian orature contains the mana (power) of the subject matter and the haku 
(composer) who authored a particular moʻolelo, oli, or mele  and teaches pathways to 
pono.  As such, to express them in hula (dance), in cultural practice,  and to give voice to 
these moʻolelo, oli, and mele means to give life to these sources of knowledge, to honor 
the kūpuna who served as haku, and to unwrap the original content and spiritual aspects 
of ʻike kūpuna passed down through the generations.  
 “Palapala Kūlike O Ka ʻAha Pono Paoakalani Declaration” is  a declaration 
ratified at the 2003 Native Hawaiian Intellectual Property Rights Conference by Native Hawaiian kumu hula; elders skilled in lāʻau lapaʻau, traditional and contemporary artists; 
and individuals who engage in all cultural expressions, includi ng the spiritual and 
ceremonial practice, subsistence agronomy, marine economic pursuits, and the maintenance and transmission of Hawaiʻi’s oral traditions, teachers and academics, and 
attorneys.	7 
	 “Papahānaumoku” is one of the three houses of knowledge that comprise Papakū 
Makawalu.  Papahānaumoku represents the embryonic state of all life forces and their 
transition to death.  It is the birthing cycle of all flora and fauna, including humans.  It is 
the process of investigating, questioning, analyzing and reflecting upon all things that 
give birth, regenerate, and procreate.  It is also a class of experts who are spiritually, physically and intellectually attuned to things born and the habitat that provides their 
nourishment, shelter, and growth. 
 “Papahelōlona” is a resource realm which the ancient ʻaha councils considered 
when making decisions.  It is a body of knowledge and intellect that is a valuable resource to be respected, maintained, and managed properly.  This is the knowledge of 
kahuna (priests and experts), kiaʻi ʻāina, astronomers, healers, and other carriers of ʻike. 	
 “Papahulihonua” is one of the three houses of knowledge that comprise Papakū 
Makawalu.  Papahulihonua encompasses both the earth and the ocean.  It is the ongoing 
study of the natural development, transformation and evolution of the earth and ocean.  It 
is also a class of experts who are spiritually, physically, and intellectually attuned to earth 
and its relationship to the space above and the life forms on it. 	
“Papahulilani” is one of the three houses of knowledge that comprise Papakū 
Makawalu.  Papahulilani is the space from above one’s head to where the stars sit. It 
includes the sun, moon, stars, planets, winds, clouds, and the measurement of the vertical 
and horizontal spaces of the atmosphere.  It is also a class of experts who are spiritually, 
physically, and intellectually attuned to the space above and its relationship to the earth.  	
 “Papakū Makawalu” is the categorization and organization of the natural world 
and represents as a collective the three houses of knowledge: Papahulilani, 
Papahulihonua, and Papahānaumoku.  Papakū Makawalu is the foundation to 
understanding, knowing, acknowledging, becoming involved with, and becoming experts 
of the systems of this natural world.  It connotes the dynamic Hawaiian worldview of the 
physical, intellectual and spiritual foundations from which life cycles emerge.  Papakū 
Makawalu comes from section 13 (Wā ʻUmikūmākolu) of the Kumulipo which begins 
with Palikū and Palihaʻa, the male and  female ancestors of Haumea.  Haumea, an 
ancestor of the Native Hawaiian people, is credited for the pedagogy of categorizing and organizing the natural world known as Papakū Makawalu. 	
 “Po‘o” means the island representative serving on the ʻaha moku adviso ry 
committee who is selected by the ʻaha moku councils of their respective island and 
appointed by the governor.  Poʻo may also be appointed locally to serve on island ʻaha 
moku councils to communicate to Island Poʻo their moku issues and concerns and serv e 
as liaison to hear ahupuaʻa concerns under their leadership and kuleana.  
 “Pono” means right or appropriate behavior or action in accordance with Native 
Hawaiian traditional and customary norms. 	
“Precautionary principle” means the standard for managing public trust resources.  
The precautionary principle means  that where there are present or potential threats of 
serious damage, lack of full scientific certainty should not be a basis for postponing 
effective measures to prevent environmental degradation; in addition, where uncertainty 
exists, a trustee’s duty to protect the resource militates in favor of choosing presumptions that also protect the resource.	8 
	“Public Trust” is the Constitutional obligation to protect the natural and cultural 
resources of the State, preserve species and ecosystem health and the exercise of Native 
Hawaiian and traditional and customary rights and practices, including the natural and 
cultural resources on which Native Hawaiians depend.  It requires the State to exercise 
the precautionary principle in managing Hawaiʻi’s natural and cultural resources for the benefit of present and future generations of Native Hawaiians and the general public. 	
 “Puwalu” means a conference or gathering of Native Hawaiian cultural 
practitioners and elders, teachers, conservationists, scientists, legislators and 
policymakers at all levels of government (county, state, and federal), ʻaha moku advisory 
committee leadership, leaders of island ʻaha moku councils, and other stakeholders committed to natural and cultural resource protection in the Hawaiian Islands. 	
	 “United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples” is an 
international instrument adopted by the United Nations in 2007 and later signed by the 
United States of America in 2010.  It enshrines the rights that constitute the minimum 
standards for survival, dignity and well-being of the Indigenous Peoples of the world. 
 “Wao Akua” means the sacred, montane cloud forest, core watershed, native plant 
community that is non-augmented and an area that was traditionally kapu (human access usually forbidden and prohibited).	
 “Wao Kele” is the saturated forest just below the clouds, the upland rainforest 
where human access is difficult and rare, and an area that is minimally augmented. 	
 “Wao Nahele” is the remote forest that is highly inconvenient for human access; a 
primarily native plant community; minimally augmented; and utilized by early Hawaiians as a bird-catching zone.	
 “Wao Lāʻau” is a zone of maximized biodiversity comprised of a highly 
augmented lowland forest due to integrated agroforestry of food and fuel trees, hardwood trees, construction supplies, medicine and dyes, and lei-making materials.	
 “Wao Kānaka” is where the early Hawaiians chiefly settled.  These were the kula 
lands, the sloping terrain between the forest and the shore that were highly valued and most accessible to the people.  These were the areas where families constructed their 
hale, cultivated the land, conducted aquaculture, and engaged in recreation.  For coastal 
ahupuaʻa, Wao Kānaka also extended into the sea to include fishponds and fisheries. 	
	
	
 §1-4 Office. The principal office of the committee is at the Kalanimoku Building, 
1151 Punchbowl Street, Honolulu, Hawaiʻi.  All communications to the committee shall be addressed to 1151 Punchbowl Street, Honolulu, Hawaii, 96813 unless specifically 
directed.	
	
	 §1-5 Hours. The committee’s office shall be open from 7:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. of 
each day of the week except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays unless deemed otherwise  
by necessity.		
 	9 
	 §1-6  Meetings.  (a) The committee may meet and exercise its powers in any part 
of the State of Hawaiʻi. 	
 (b) Regular meetings of the committee shall be held quarterly in Honolulu on the 
island of Oʻahu and are subject to Chapter 92, Hawai ʻi Revised Statutes.	
 (c) Special meetings may be convened by the chairperson at any time by giving 
notice to each member at least five days prior to the date of the meeting; provided however, that the notice shall not be required if all members present  in the State agree 
and sign a written waiver of the notice. 	 (d) All committee meetings shall be voice recorded or video -taped to preserve an 
administrative record of the committee’s proceedings and as a back -up to written 
minutes.	
 (e) All committee meetings shall be transcribed verbatim to preserve the accuracy 
of the administrative record.	
(f) All meetings of the committee shall be open to the public; provided, that the 
committee may meet, pursuant to sections 92 -4 and 92-5, Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes, in 
executive session, from which the public may be excluded, by a recorded vote of two -
thirds of the members present. 	 (g) The committee shall post all meeting notices and agendas on the State Online 
Calendar as soon as such notices are filed with the Lieu tenant Governor’s Office.	
(h) Meeting minutes, notes, copies of the sign-in sheet, and any recordings of the 
meeting shall be submitted to the committee’s main office within 30 days of a meeting. 	
	
	
§1-7 Membership Terms. (a) The terms of the committee members shall be for 
four years.  	
(b) No person shall be appointed consecutively to more than two terms as a 
member of the committee; provided that membership shall not exceed eight consecutive 
years.	
(c)The governor may remove or suspend for cause any member of the committee 
after due notice and public hearing 	
(d) In the event that there is a permanent vacancy  on the committee, for any 
reason, the governor may select an individual from a list of nominatio ns from the 
respective island ʻaha moku councils to complete the duration of the current unexpired term.	
	
	
 §1-8 Quorum.  Five members of the committee shall constitute a quorum to 
transact business and the concurrence of a simple majority of the committee  members 
present shall be necessary to approve any action of the committee. 	
	
	
 §1-9 Authentication.  All official orders and other actions of the committee shall 
be authenticated or signed by the chairperson or in the chairperson’s absence, the vice -
chairperson. 	10 
		
	
 §1-10 Chairperson.  The committee shall select from among its members a 
chairperson who shall preside at all meetings, serve the will of the committee, and perform such other duties as may be assigned. The chairperson may be removed from this 
office by a majority vote of the committee members. 	
	
	
 §1-11 Vice -Chairperson. The committee shall select from among its members a 
vice-chairperson who shall preside over meetings in the event of a temporary absence of the chairperson. 	
		
 §1-12 Executive Director.  (a) The executive director may hire an administrative 
or executive assistant to assist the executive director in accomplishing the purposes of the committee.  
(b) The executive director shall be responsible to and under the authority of the 
committee. 
 (c) The executive director shall be responsible for planning and scheduling all 
committee meetings. 
(d) The executive director shall timely and regularly report to the committee all 
correspondences to and from the committee and shall also prepare and draft correspondence for the committee.  
(e) The executive director shall report bi -monthly to the committee all 
correspondence, communications, and issues related to the business of the committee.  
(f) The executive director is responsible for developing a budget for review and 
approval by the committee. 	
(g) At every regular meeting, the executive director shall provide a financial 
report detailing budget line item expenditures, remaining balance, a nd projected future 
expenses.  
(h) The executive director shall be responsible for preparing, drafting, and 
publishing the annual report.  The executive director shall integrate Island Poʻo reports into the annual report.  The executive director shall tran smit the annual report to the 
committee for final review and approval prior to submittal to the legislature.  
(i) The executive director shall only offer testimony in public hearings before 
agencies and the legislature related to specific findings, policies, and recommendations 
that have been formally approved by the committee at its meetings.  The executive 
director shall not act contrary to, in opposition to, and without notice or authority of the 
committee’s official findings, policies, recommendations, and decisions. 
(j) If the department, other agencies, and the legislature inquire on island -specific 
issues, the executive director shall only consult with and seek a response from the 
respective Island Poʻo for which the matter corresponds to.  In these instances the 
executive director shall defer to the Island Poʻo on next steps and recommended action.   
The executive director shall not act independently and without consent and authority 11 
	from the Island Poʻo on matters affecting the respective Poʻo’s ahupu aʻa, moku, and 
mokupuni issues and concerns. 
(k) The executive director shall have available in the office of the committee up -
to-date public records of the issues and actions of the committee.  
(l) The committee shall conduct annual performance evaluations  of the executive 
director. 
(m) Non-performance and poor performance of any of the duties in these 
administrative rules, and the committing of unauthorized actions that are contrary to the 
committee’s decisions  shall constitute grounds for removal and termination of the 
executive director; subject, however, to concurrence of the department chair and the applicable employment laws administratively attached to the executive director’s 
position. 
    	
   	
 
PART 2	
	
ʻAHA MOKU SYSTEM	
		
 §2-1 Purpose. (a) The purpose of this part is to introduce the historical 
framework for the ʻaha moku system, more properly known as the ʻaha kiole (people’s councils) in ancient times ; its successes in ensuring ecological health, sustainability, and 
abundance; and the necessity of returning to the foundational precepts that governed the 
ʻaha councils anciently in order to restore natural and cultural resource health  today. 
 (b) The purpose of  this part is also to restore the Indigenous methodologies 
employed by ancient kūpuna who led and guided the work of the ʻaha kiole in order to 
ensure resource health and abundance at the ecosystem level and to honor  cultural and 
ancestral beliefs and knowledge systems.    (c) The purpose of this part is also to responsibly utilize the traditional knowledge 
and expertise of the committee serving in an advisory function in a manner that enhances the capacity of the department, its divisions, and other agencies to mālama ʻāina and 
implement their statutory and constitutional obligations to affirmatively protect the public 
trust, traditional and customary rights and practices of Native Hawa iians, and the natural 
and cultural resources that Hawaiʻi’s Indigenous people depend on for subsistence, cultural, and religious purposes.  
 (d) The purpose of this part is also to recognize the ʻaha moku advisory 
committee as a global leader integrating Indigenous resource management models into modern legal and regulatory structures , serving as a vehicle for promoting the rights of 
Native Hawaiians as Hawaiʻi’s Indigenous people, and ensuring that their right to free, prior, and informed consent is respected.  
 (e) The purpose of this part is also to expressly convey the communication 
process in which the ʻaha moku advisory committee, the department, and its divisions shall employ in cooperation and collaboration with island ʻaha moku councils who 12 
	represent the issues and concerns of Native communities seeking to care for their natural 
and cultural resources.  
		
 §2-2 Application of Hawaiian Indigenous Methodologies and Best Practices. 	
(a) The ʻaha moku system is grounded in the foundational practices adopted by 
the ancient ʻaha councils who formed as a means to govern the people and manage the 
ʻāina within moku and ahupuaʻa.  ʻAha council leadership was determined by the people 
who collectively understood who the experts were in their community.  They were 
experts in fisheries management, hydrology and water distribution, astronomy and navigation, architecture, farming, healing arts , etc. Thus, the leaders who governed the 
people and managed the resources were actual practitioners , those who had gained a 
comprehensive and masterful understanding of the biological, physical, and spiritual 
aspects of the ʻāina. These experts utilized t heir knowledge to kiaʻi ʻāina, or care for the 
natural resources and produce food in abundance – not just for the people of that time, 
but for all successive generations.	
 (b) ʻAha council leaders who governed the people and managed the resources 
were those who were actual practitioners; those who had gained a comprehensive and masterful understanding of the biological, physical, and spiritual aspects of the ʻāina. The 
kūpuna metaphorically ascribed these councils and the weaving of various ʻike, or 
knowledge streams, as an ʻaha. The individual aho or threads made from the bark of the 
olonā shrub were woven together to make strong cordage, called ʻaha. Thus the early 
Hawaiians referred to their councils as ʻaha to represent the strong leadership created 
when acknowledged ʻike holders came together to weave their varied expertise for 
collective decision-making that benefitted the people, land, and natural resources. 	
(c) ʻAha moku leaders throughout Ka Pae ʻĀina gathered often to learn from each 
other. These religious and educational exchanges allowed them to adopt innovations, 
make improvements, and progress forward together. As the lands and the people 
flourished, the ʻaha moku councils elected to divide moku into smaller, more manageable 
units of land called ahupuaʻa. From here, the people managed themselves under the 
guidance of their own experts, forming their own ʻaha ahupuaʻa. Governance remained 
within the ahupuaʻa unless an issue affected the entire moku. These councils would convene according to whether decision-making was necessary at the island-wide 
(mokupuni), regional (moku), or more specifically at the ahupuaʻa level. Representative 
leadership was present at all of these levels. 	
(d)The people governed themselves through the ʻaha councils for seven hundred 
years from the second century, A.D. until the Tahitian migration and introduction of the 
hierarchical aliʻi system in the end of the ninth century. Kumu John Kaʻimikaua shared 
the results of ʻaha governance during this rich period of development:  
	“After the passing of the first seven generations under the ʻaha councils, peace 
was established.  By the sixteenth generation, there was no more manufacture of 
weapons and no knowledge of war amongst the people.  The leadership of the 
ʻaha councils was so proficient in providing for the people’s needs.  Everyone had 13 
	enough food, materials for housing, and clothing.  There were no rich, no poor.  
Because of the ʻaha councils, the people were able to progress and expand their 
farming and fishing abilities and excel spiritually.  About three-hundred years 
after the formation of the ʻaha moku councils, the lands became abundant and the 
population of the islands increased.” 	
 (e) In assessing natural and cultural resource management issues, the ʻaha moku 
advisory committee members shall incorporate the following methodology employed by 
ancient kūpuna:	
(1) Accountability to and protection of the eight resource realms: 	
(i) Moana-Nui-Ākea – the farthest out to sea or along the ocean’s 
horizon one could perceive from ato p the highest vantage point 
in one’s area. 
(ii) Kahakai Pepeiao – where the high tide begins to where the lepo 
starts.  This is typically the splash zone where crab, limu, and 
ʻopihi may be located; sea cliffs; or a gentle shoreline dotted 
with a coastal strand of vegetation; sands where turtles and 
seabirds nest; extensive sand dune environs; and the like.  
(iii) Ma Uka – from the point where the lepo starts to the top of the mountain. 
(iv) Nā Muliwai – all the sources of fresh water, ground or artesian water, rivers, streams, springs, including coastal springs that 
create brackish-water and contribute to healthy and productive 
estuarine environments. 
(v) Ka Lewalani – everything above the land, the air, the sky, the clouds, the birds, the rainbows, etc. 
(vi) Kanaka Hōnua – the natural resources important to sustain 
people.  However, care for these resources are based on their 
intrinsic value.  Management is based on providing for the 
benefit of the resources themselves, rather than from the 
perspective of how these resources serve people. 
(vii) Papahelōlona – knowledge and intellect that is a valuable resource to be respected, maintained, and managed properly.  
This is the knowledge of kahuna (priests and experts), 
konohiki, astronomers, healers, and other carriers of ʻike.  
(viii) Ke ʻIhiʻihi – elements that maintain the sanctity or sacredness of certain places. 
(2) Consider and weigh issues, problems, and potential solutions in terms of their impact, both beneficial and adverse, to the eight resource realms 
described above. 
(3) Adopt measures and implement solutions that 
(i) Are determined to be non-harmful and/or beneficial to each of the resource realms; 
(ii) Honor the ancestral past and wisdom of the kūpuna; 14 
	(iii) Address the needs of the present; 
(iv) And establish abundance and sustainability for future 
generations. 
 (f) Traditional Knowledge.  Understanding that Papahelōlona is knowledge and 
intellect that must be treated properly, the committee adopts the practices of honoring the 
three houses of knowledge known collectively as Papakū Makawalu.  These three houses 
of knowledge are Papahulilani, Papahulihonua, and Papahānaumoku.  Additionally, the 
committee shall:	
(1) Protect, respect, maintain, manage, and prevent the misappropriation of 
Native Hawaiian traditional knowledge in accordance with the provisions 
set forth in the Palapala Kūlike O Ka ʻAha Pono Paoakalani Declaration.  
(2) Recognize, uphold, and apply with pono the vast store of Native Hawaiian traditional knowledge contained in orature, including oli, mele, moʻolelo, 
hula, other Native cultural expressions, oral histories, and kamaʻāina 
expert testimony; archival literature; and expressed in the living culture 
and traditional practices of Native Hawaiians for the protection of cultural 
and natural resources. 
(g) In determining and maintaining the ecological heal th of nā ahupuaʻa and 
protecting the natural and cultural resources within nā ahupuaʻa, the statewide ʻaha moku 
advisory committee and the island ʻaha moku councils shall employ indigenous tools of assessment and ahupuaʻa design principles adopted by the ancient kūpuna which include 
mālama of the biocultural zones traditionally known as nā wao:	
(1) Wao Akua - sacred, montane cloud forest, core watershed, native plant community that is non-augmented and an area that was traditionally kapu 
(human access usually f orbidden, prohibited). 
(2) Wao Kele - saturated forest just below the clouds, the upland rainforest where human access is difficult and rare, and an area that is minimally 
augmented. 
(3) Wao Nahele - remote forest, highly inconvenient for human access; a primarily native plant community; minimally augmented; and utilized by 
early Hawaiians as a bird-catching zone. 
(4) Wao Lāʻau - a zone of maximized biodiversity, comprised of a highly augmented lowland forest due to integrated agroforestry of food and fuel 
trees, hardwood trees, construction supplies, medicine and dyes, and lei -
making materials. 
(5) Wao Kānaka - where the early Hawaiians chiefly settled.  These were the 
kula lands, the sloping terrain between the forest and the shore that were 
highly valued and most accessible to the people.  These were the areas 
where families constructed their hale, cultivated the land, conducted 
aquaculture, and engaged in recreation.  For coastal ahupuaʻa, Wao 
Kānaka also extended into the sea to include fishponds and fisheries.  
(h) Recognizing that the wao as described in paragraph (g) above are not 
universally applicable for every mokupuni and that each mokupuni by their topography, 
geology, total elevation, microclimates, and ecosystems may not have integrated all of 15 
	these wao, or may have contained more wao than mentioned here, and/or may have 
named and categorized them differently, the committee provides the above designations 
in paragraph (g) as a generalized standard and appends “Attachment A:  Hawaiian Terms 
and their Descriptions for Landscape Zones Based on Elevation” with additional 
categorizations by elevation. 	
 (i) Recognizing that the kūpuna also named and categorized landscape and 
oceanscape features and that there were appropriate biota, ecologies, and uses for these  
various features of land and sea, the committee appends “Attachment B :  Definitions and 
Descriptions of Land and Ocean Terms.”	
 	
	 §2-3 Advisory Functions of the ʻAha Moku Advisory Committee. (a) The 
committee, in its advisory role, reaffirms and shall protect all Native Hawaiian rights, customarily and traditionally exercised for subsistence, cultural and religious purposes.  	
(1)  Native Hawaiians have standing and unique rights that are distinguishable 
from those of the general public. 79 H. 425, 903 P.2d 1246. These rights stem 
from several sources of Constitutional and statutory law. H aw. Const.,  art. XII § 
7, HRS § 1-1, HRS § 7-1.	(2)  The Hawaiʻi Supreme Court has provided a framework by which the state 
must fulfill its statutory and Constitutional obligations to affirmatively protect Native Hawaiian traditional and customary rights and practices. 94 H. 31, 7 P.3d 
1068. Under this framework, state and county agencies, when reviewing land use 
applications, must independently assess:	
(A) The identity and scope of valued cultural and historical or natural 
resources in the petition area including the extent to which traditional and 
customary Native Hawaiian rights are exercised in the petition area. 	
(B) The extent to which those resources including traditional and 
customary Native rights will be affected or impaired by the proposed 
action; and 	
(C) The feasible action, if any, to be taken by the state to reasonably 
protect Native Hawaiian rights if they are fou nd to exist.	
(b) The committee, in its advisory role, shall liberally apply the 
“precautionary principle” when advising agencies regarding development or use of lands 
under the public trust.  	
(c)  The legislature, in establishing the ʻaha moku advisory committee, 
reaffirmed the customary laws of ancient pre-contact Hawaiʻi, from which the ʻAha Kiole 
(people’s councils) formed. This being so, and with the formal adoption by the United 
States of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the 
committee and the respective island moku councils shall serve as vehicles for free prior 
and informed consent and reaffirms the following articles in the declaration with respect 
to the treatment of Native Hawaiians as the Indigenous people of H awaiʻi:	
(1) Indigenous peoples have the right to participate in decision -making in 
matters which would affect their rights, through representatives chosen by 
themselves in accordance with their own procedures, as well as to maintain and 16 
	develop their own indigenous decision-making institutions. UNDRIP Art. 18.	
(2) States shall consult and cooperate in good faith with the indigenous 
peoples concerned through their own representative institutions in order to obtain their free, prior and informed consent befor e adopting and implementing 
legislative or administrative measures that may affect them. UNDRIP Art. 19. 	
(3) Indigenous people have the right to determine and develop priorities and 
strategies for the development or use of their lands or territories and ot her 
resources. UNDRIP Art. 32(1). 
(d) The ʻaha moku advisory committee is a global leader in the integration of 
Indigenous resource management models into modern legal and regulatory structures. 
The International Union for the Conservation of Nature has recognized that Indigenous 
peoples and local communities can provide examples of sustainability to serve as global 
models, including by means of their traditional knowledge.  The International Union for 
the Conservation of Nature also specifically acknowledged that “the indigenous people of 
Hawai'i sustained a population of up to one million people through the ahupua'a system 
of land management, which integrated land and sea ecosystems and relationships within a 
shared geographic, social, cultural, and political context.”  Act 288 and the ʻaha moku 
advisory committee represent one of the first codifications of this developing 
international policy.     	
	
	 §2-4 ʻAha Moku Structure. (a) Within the physical geography of each moku, 
communities and residents select their moku representative(s) according to the desirable leadership qualities and/or traditional ʻike that align with the needs of that moku.  
	 (b)	The duties of each island representative is to serve as a liaison between the 
various moku of their respective island, their ʻaha moku advisory committee island Poʻo, 
and the department.  (c) Each island moku representative, in consultation with the communities and 
residents within their moku, shall select Poʻo candidate names to the governor for consideration in serving on the ʻaha moku advisory committee when the term of their 
present Poʻo is nearing expiration. 
 	 §2-5 Communication Process. (a) In order for the ʻaha moku advisory 
committee and those participating in the ʻaha moku system to be effective in advising 
agencies, the department, its divisions, and the board, representatives in island ʻaha moku 
councils will relay their concerns about site-specific natural and cultural resource issues 
to their respective island Poʻo serving on the ʻaha moku advisory committee.   (b) Information, requests, or comments should be in writing and can be received 
via email, facsimile or U.S. postal service. The respective island Poʻo will work with the executive director to ensure these concerns will be forwarded to the appropriate 
department division(s) for response or consideration. 	
 (c) The communication route shall be as follows: 	
(1) All issues or concerns brought before the island ʻaha moku councils 17 
	concerning their region and nā ahupuaʻa therein will be  brought forward by 
island moku representatives and forwarded to the respective island Poʻo 
serving on the ʻaha moku advisory committee; 
(2) The respective island Po‘o works with the executive director to forward the ahupuaʻa and moku issues and concerns to the appropriate department 
division(s). Said division(s) will work with the respective island Poʻo to 
resolve the island issues.  For ease of process, the respective island Poʻo 
shall follow the sample provided in  “Attachment C - ʻAha Moku Advisory 
Committee Communication and Networking Form.”  
(3) If the issues are not mitigated or resolved by the impacted community (s) 
and the department division, the issue will then be submitted to the board 
for further discussion, guidance, and/or decision.  
	
	
	
PART 3 	
	
MOKUPUNI; MOKU; AHUPUAʻA; ʻILI	
	
	
 §3-1 Niʻihau O Kahelelani (Niʻihau). There are three traditional moku within 
the mokupuni of the island of Niʻihau. They are Kona, Ko ʻolau, and Puna. The ahupua‘a 
located within each moku are: 	
(1) Koʻolau: Okii, Apu, and Koolaukani.  
(2) Puna: Pūeo, Nomilu, Kalaoa, and Honuaula.  
(3) Kona: Hālāliʻi, Koahi, Kaikane, Pahau, Mauuloa, Nonopapa, Halo, 
Pauahula, Puuwai, Kaumuhonu, Keanauhi, Pohueloa, Nianiau, and Lehua.  
	
	 §3-2 Kauaʻi O Manokalanipō (Kauaʻi). There are five traditional moku  within 
the mokupuni of  Kauaʻi. They are Haleleʻa, Koʻolau, Puna, Kona, and Nā Pali. The ahupua‘a located within each moku are: 	
(1) Haleleʻa: Hāʻena, Wainiha, Lumahaʻi, Waikoko, Waipā, Waiʻoli, Hanalei, Kalihiwai, Kalihikai. 
(2) Koʻolau: Nāmāhana, Kilauea, Kāhili, Waiakalua, Pilaʻa, Waipakē, Lepeuli, Kaʻakaʻaniu, Moloaʻa, Pāpaʻa, ʻAliomanu, and Anahola.  
(3) Puna: Kamalomaloʻo, Keālia, Kapaʻa, Waipouli, Olohena, Wailua, Hanamāʻulu, Kalapakī, Nāwiliwili, Niumalu, Haʻikū, and Kipū.  
(4) Kona: Māhāʻulepū, Pāʻā, Weliweli, Kōloa, Lāwaʻi, Kalāheo, Wahiawa, Hanapēpē, Makaweli, Waimea, Pōkiʻi, Niu, Waiawa, Mānā, Kaʻulaʻula, 
Hāʻeleʻele, Polihale, Kāʻaweiki, Kauhao, and Mākaha.  
(5) Nā Pali: Miloliʻi, Nuʻalolo, Awaʻawapuhi, Honopū, Kalalau, Pōhakuao, Hānakoa, Hānakāpīʻai. 
	18 
		
 §3-3 Oʻahu O Kākuhihewa (Oʻahu). There are six traditional moku within the 
mokupuni of Oʻahu. They are Koʻolau Loa, Koʻolau Poko, Kona, ʻEwa, Waiʻanae, and Waialua. The ahupua‘a and ʻili within each moku are: 	
(1) Koʻolau Loa: Waimea, Pūpūkea, Paumalū, Kaunala, Waial eʻe, 
Pahipahiʻālua, Nāʻopana 1, Nāʻopana 2, Kawela, Hanakaoe, ʻŌʻio 1, 
ʻŌʻio 2, Ulupehupehu, Kahuku, Keana, Malaekahana, Lāʻie 1, Lāʻie 2, 
Kaipapaʻu, Hauʻula, Mākao, Kapaka, Kaluanui, Papaʻakoko, Haleʻaha, 
Kapano, Pūheʻemiki, Waiʻono, Punaluʻu, Kahana, Makaua, and 
Kaʻaʻawa. 
(2) Koʻolau Poko: Kualoa 1, Kualoa 2, Hakipuʻu, Waikāne, Waiāhole, Kaʻalaea, Waiheʻe, Kahaluʻu, Heʻeia, Kāneʻohe, Mokapu, Kailua, and 
Waimānalo.  
(3) Kona: Waikīkī, Kuliʻouʻou, Niu, Wailupe, Waiʻalae Iki, Waialae Nui, Pālolo, Mānoa, Kewalo, Honolulu, Pauoa (Lower), Pauoa (Upper), 
Nuʻuanu, Kapālama, Kalihi, Kahauiki, and Moanalua.  
(4) ʻEwa: Hālawa, ʻAiea, Kalauao, Waimalu, Waiau, Waimanō, Mānana, Mānana Iki, Mānana Uka, Mānana Nui, Waiʻawa, Waipiʻo, Waikele, 
Hōʻaeʻae, and Honouliuli.   
(5) Waiʻanae: Nānākuli, Lualualei, Waiʻanae, Mākaha, Keaʻau, ʻŌhikilolo, 
Mākua, Kahanahāiki, and Keawaʻula.  
(6) Waialua: Kaʻena, Keālia, Kawaihāpai, Kamananui, Kawailoa, Mokulēʻia 1, Mokulēʻia 2, and Paʻalaʻa. 
	
	
 §3-4 Molokaʻi Pule O’o.  There are five traditional moku within the mokupuni of 
Molokaʻi. They are Kaluakoʻi, Pālāʻau, Kawela, Manaʻe, and Koʻolau. The ahupuaʻa located within each moku are: 	
(1) Manaʻe: Keōpukaloa, Keōpukaʻuʻuku, Moakea, Pōhakupili, Lūpehu, Honoulimalo’o, Honouliwai, Kūmimi, Moanui, Waialua, Puniuohua, 
Kainalu, Kawaikapu, Honomuni, ʻAhaʻino 2, ʻAhaʻino 1, Kūpeke, Pūko’o, 
Mapulehu, Kaluaʻaha, ʻUalapuʻe, Kahananui, Manawai, East ʻŌhiʻa, West 
ʻOhiʻa, Keawanui, Kaʻamola, Puaʻahala, Wawaia, Kumuʻeli, Kapualei, 
and Kamalō. 
(2) Kawela: Kapuaokoʻolau, Makolelau, Kawela, Makakupaʻia, Kamiloloa, Kapaʻakea, and Kaunakakai.  
(3) Pālāʻau: Kalamaʻula, Kahanui, Nāʻiwa, Ho’olehua, Pālāʻau,  Kalaupapa, Makanalua, and Kalawao.  
(4) Kaluakoʻi: Punakou and Kaluakoʻi.  
(5) Koʻolau: Hālawa, Wailau, Pelekunu, and Waikolu.  
	
	 §3-5 Lānaʻi O Kaululāʻau (Lānaʻi). There are two traditional moku within the 
mokupuni of the island Lanai. They are Kona and Koʻolau. The ahupua‘a located within 19 
	each moku are: 	
(1) Koʻolau: Paomai, Mahana, Maunalei, Kalulu, Kaunolu, Palawai, Paawili, 
and Kaohai.  
(2) Kona: Kamao, Palawai, Paawili, Kealiaaupuni, Kealakapu, Kaunolu, Kalulu, Kamoku, and Kaʻa. 
	
	
 §3-6 Kohe Malamalama O Kanaloa (Kahoʻolawe).  There are four moku within 
the mokupuni of Kahoʻolawe. They are Kona, Koolau, Honuaula and Molokini. The ahupua‘a located within each moku are: 	
(1) Kona: Lae O Kaka, Kamohio, Kaneloa, Wai Kahulu, and Kealaikahiki.  
(2) Koʻolau: Honokoa, Kii, Ahupa, Kaukamoku, Kuheia, Kaulana, Papaka, 
Lua O Kealialuna, Hakioawa, Owawahie, and Konapou. 
(3) Honuaula: Paeahu, Palauea, Maluaka, Mooloa, Moomuku, Kanehena, Kualapa, Kahili, Papake, Kaloi, Kanaio, and Aualu. (Note: While this 
moku is physically located on the Island of Maui, it traditionally connects 
to Kanaloa.) 
(4) Molokini: No ahupua‘a.  
	
	
 §3-7 Moku o Piʻilani (Maui).  There are twelve moku within the mokupuni of 
Maui. They are Hāmākuapoko, Hāmākualoa, Koʻolau, Hāna, Kīpahulu, Kaupō, Kahikinui, Honuaʻula, Kula, Wailuku, Lahaina, and Kāʻanapali. The ahupua‘a wit hin 
each moku are: 	
(1) Hāmākuapoko: Paniau, Kalialinui, ʻAʻapueo, Waiʻōpua, Keāhua, Kailua, 
Hōkūʻula, Honohina, Waiawa, Hāliʻimaile, Pāʻia, and Pāiheihe.  
(2) Hāmākualoa: Haʻikū, Paʻuwela, Kuʻiʻaha, Kaupakulua, Ulumalu, ʻŌpana, Heaʻaʻula, Uaoa, Peʻahi, Kealiʻi, H alehaku, Honopou, Hoʻolawa, 
Honokalā, Mokupapa, Waipiʻo, Puōlua, Huelo, Hanehoʻi, Hanawana Hoalua, Puʻuomaile, and Pāpaʻaʻea.  
(3) Koʻolau: Makaiwa, Kaʻaiea, Punaluʻu, Moʻoloa, Kōlea, Loʻiloa, Keopuka, Honomanū, Nuʻaʻailua, Keʻanae, Pālauhulu, Wailua, Kalīaʻe 
Kekuapawela, Waiohue, Makapehu, Puakea, Paʻakea, Kapaʻula, 
Wailaulau, Puʻuhaehae, Hopenui, Honolulunui, Makapipi, ʻŌpikoʻula, 
Waiāhole, Keaʻa, Ulaʻino, Keaʻa, and Makapuʻu.  
(4) Hāna: Honomāʻele, Kawela, Kauamanu, Kaʻelekū, Honokalani, Wākiu, Kawaipapa, Niumalu, Palemo, Wānanalu, Oloʻewa, Papaʻauhai, Aleamai, 
Haneoʻo, Hamoa, Pōhue, Mōkae, Makaʻalae, Kākiʻo, Waiohonu, Puʻuiki, 
Pūkuʻilua, Hāʻōʻū, Hulihana, Kākūhalahala, Pōhakanele, ʻĀhuakeʻio, 
Kihapūhala, Papahawahawa, Mūʻolea, Koali, Wailua, Puʻuhaoa, Paehala, 
Kakiweka, Hāhālawe, and Puaʻaluʻu.  
(5) Kīpahulu: Kaumakani, Papauluana, ʻAlae, Kākalahale, Halemanō, Kalena, Kīkoʻo, Maʻulili, Kakanoni, Kapuaʻikini, Pōpō, and Kukuiʻula.  
(6) Kaupō: Kālepa, Nuʻanuʻaloa, Mikimiki, Māʻalo, Kahuwai, Niumalu, 20 
	Puʻulani, Manawainui, Kepiʻo, Keʻalepa, Mokuiʻa, Hikiaupeʻa, 
Pukaʻauhuhu, Kou, Puʻumāneoneo, Kaumahalua, Nuʻu, Kumu, Waiʻōpai, 
Kūkoaʻe, Huilua, and Kīpapa.  
(7) Kahikinui: Manawainui, Mehamenui, Nakaʻaha, Nakaʻohu, Kīpapa, Alena, Lualaʻilua, and Auwahi.  
(8) Honuaʻula: Auala, Kanaio, Kaloʻi, Kaunaʻuhane, Pāpaka, Keoneʻōʻio, Kualapa, Kanahena, Nau, Moʻomuku, Moʻoloa, Mohopilo, Moʻoʻiki, 
Maluaka, Kaʻeo, Pāpaʻanui, Waipao, Kalihi, Keauhou, Palauea, and 
Paeahu. 
(9) Kula: Kamaʻole, Kēōkea, Waiohuli, Kalepolepo, Kōheo, Kaʻonoʻulu, Alae, Waiakoa, Kealahou, Kamehame, Pūlehu, and ʻŌmaʻopio.  
(10) Wailuku: Nākalele, Keawalua, Pōelua, ʻOwāluhi, Ahoa, Kahakuloa, Makaliua, Waiheʻe, Ahikuli, Waiehu, Wailuku, Waikapū, Kamaʻalaeʻa, 
ʻAʻAlaloloa, Papalaua, Ukumehame, Olowalu, Awalua, and 
Kūlanaokalaʻi.  
(11) Lāhainā: Launiupoko, Waianuʻukole, Halakaʻa Polapola, Makila, Pāhoa, Kauaʻula, Pūehuehu, Waineʻe, Kuʻia, Kelawea, Kanahā, Puʻunoa, Moa, 
Kapunakea Panaʻewa, Māla, Punau, Pūʻou, Kūholileʻa, Puʻuiki Kahoma, 
ʻAki, and Hāhākea. 
(12) Kāʻanapali: Honokōwai, Moʻomoku, Māhinahina, Kahana, Mailepaʻi, ʻAlaeloa, Honokeana, Nāpili, Honokahua, Honolua, Hononana, and 
Honokōhau.  
	
	
 §3-8 Moku o Keawe (Hawaiʻi). There are six moku within the mokupuni of 
Hawaiʻi. They are Hilo, Puna, Ka‘ū, Kona, Kohala, and Hāmākua. The ahupua‘a within each moku are: 	
(1) Hilo: ʻŌʻōkala, Humuʻula, Wapunalei, Kīlau, Manowaiʻōpae, Pūʻalaea, Kihalani, Laupāhoehoe, Pāpaʻaloa, Māʻonalulu, Kapehu, Keaʻalau, 
Waioka, Maulua, Kūlanakiʻi, Kaiākea, Puʻuʻōhua, Nīnole, Waikaumalo, Piha, Kanuku, Nanue, Piha, Honohina, ʻŌpeʻa, Uwapuni, Lepoloa, 
Kauniho, Kaluakailio, Umauma, Wailua, Kaumaeʻe, Hakalau, Kaloaloa, 
Wailea, Kaiwiki, Kuhua, Honomū, Mālamalama, Lāʻimi, Kaʻakepa, 
Kaupakuea, Mākea, Kahua, Makahanaloa, ʻAlalā, Pepeʻekeō, Kulaʻimano, 
Kawainui, Onomea, Kahaliʻi, Alakahi, Mokuʻōniki, Puʻumoi, Kalaoa, 
ʻAleamai, Kaʻieʻie, Kaʻāpoko, Pāpaʻikou, Pāhoehoe, Paukaʻa, Kīkala, 
Maumau Kaiwiki, ʻAlae, Papāʻa, Mokuhonua, Wainaku, Kalalau, Puʻuʻeo, 
Piʻihounua, Hālaʻi, PUnahoa, Pōnahawai, Kaūmana Kūkūau, Waiākea, 
and Honohononui. 
(2) Puna: ʻŌlaʻa, Keaʻau, Waikahekahe Makuʻu, Pōpōkī, Hālona, Keonepoko, Kaʻohe, Waiakahiʻula, Nānāwale, Waʻawaʻa, Kahuwai, Halepuaʻa, 
Kānekīkī, Koaʻe, Puʻua, Halekamahina, Kula, Kūkiʻi, Kapoho, P ūʻālaʻa, 
Aʻahalanui, Laepaoʻo, Oneloa, Pohiki, Kaʻukulau, Keahialaka, Puʻulena 
Kaliʻu Kaniahiku, Pāhoa, Nānāwale, Waiakahiʻula, Kauaea, ʻOpihikāō, 21 
	Kauʻeleau, Kamāʻili, Keʻekeʻe, Kehena, Keauohana, Kēō kea, Kīkala 
Kaimū, Mākena, ʻIʻilewa, Kalapana, Kupahuʻa, Hulunānai, Kaunaloa, 
Kapaʻahu, Kahaualeʻa, Poupou, Pūlama, Kamoamoa, Laeʻapuki, Panau, 
Kealakomo, Kahue, and ʻĀpua. 
(3) Ka‘ū: Keauhou, Kapāpala, ʻĀhulili, Kaʻiliʻula, Waimuku, uʻukoa, 
Makakupu, Kaʻalaʻala, Kanaio, Kaʻapahu, Keāiwa, Wailoa, Halelua, 
Kumu, Kauhuuhuʻula, Iliokaloa, Pāʻauʻau, Pālima, Hiʻonamoa, Makakā, 
Kōpū, Kulua, Moaʻula, Kamehame, Mohokea, Punaluʻu, Wailau, Nīnole, 
Hīlea, Kaʻalāiki, Hōkūkano, Hiʻonaʻā, Honuʻapo, Kīʻolokū, 
Nāpaukū/Paukū, Kapuna, Kaunāmano, Kāwala, Kahilipali, Waiʻōhinu, 
Kiolakaʻa, ʻAʻākaʻa, Puʻumakaʻā, Kau, Waiʻōmaʻo, Pālauhulu, Kawela, 
Mohowae Puʻuʻeo, Kamāʻoa, Keaʻa, Pākini, Kīʻao/Kiʻaʻao, Puʻuki, 
Kahuku, and Manukā.   
(4) Kona: Hanakeaumoe, Kapuʻa, ʻOhepuʻupuʻu, Okoe, Honomalino, Kāliki, Omokaʻa, Miloliʻi, Kapukawaʻa, Hoʻōpūloa, Anapuka, Papa, ʻAlikā, 
Kīpāhoehoe, Kaʻapuna, ʻOpihihale, ʻŌlelomoana, Kolo, Kukuiopaʻe, 
Waikakuʻu, Kaʻohe, Pāhoehoe, ʻAlaʻē, Haukalua, Haleili, Makuʻu, 
Maunaoni, Honokua, Waiea, Kalāhiki, Kauhakō, Hoʻokena, Keālia, 
Kauleolī, Kiʻilae, Kēōkea, Hōnaunau, Keʻei, Kahauloa, Kalamawaiʻawaʻa, 
Waipunaʻula, Kīloa, Kealakekua, Kaʻawaloa, Keōpuka, Onouli, Kanakau, 
Keʻekeʻe, Halekiʻi, Hōkūkano, Honuaʻino, Lehuʻula, Kawainui, Kuamoʻo, 
Māʻihi, Honalo, Keauhou, Kahaluʻu, Laʻaloa, Pāhoehoe, Kaumalumalu, 
Hōlualoa, Puapuaʻa, Kahului, Waiʻaha, Puaʻa, ʻAuhaukea, Hienaloli, 
Honuaʻula, Keōpū, Moeauoa, Lanihau, Keahuolū, Kealakehe, Honokāhau, 
Kaloko, Kohanaiki, ʻOʻoma, Kalaoa, Hāmanamana, Haleohiu, Makaʻula 
Kau, Puʻukala Awalua Kaulana, Mahaiʻula Makalawena, Awakeʻe 
Maniniʻōwali, Kūkiʻo Kaʻūpūlehu, Puʻuwaʻawaʻa, and Puʻuanahulu. 
(5) Kohala: Hukiaʻa, ʻOpihipau, Kealahewa, Hualua, Kaʻauhuhu, Kahe Hāwī, Pāhoa, Honomakaʻu, Kapuʻa, Pūehuehu, Lāʻaumāmā, Nāʻula, Honopueo, 
Kapaʻau, ʻĀinakea, ʻIole, Nukuʻiu, Halaʻula, maʻulili, Pūʻeke, 
ʻĀpuakōhau, Kukuiwaluhia, Halellua, Nāpāpaʻa, Hālawa, ʻAʻamakāō, 
Makapala, Niuliʻi, Waiʻāpuka, ʻAnau, Makanikahio, Pololū, Honokāne, 
Keamuku, Waikōloa, Waimea, Kalāhuipuaʻa, Puakō, Lālāmilo, Puʻuki, 
Hōkūʻula, Waiʻauia, Haleana, Kauniho, Keʻōniki, Lanikepū, ʻŌuli, 
Momounoloa, Pauahi, Kapia, Pānoluʻukia, Puʻukawaiwai, Kawaihae, 
Puʻukapu, Pukalani, Nohoāina, Paulama, Waikā, Kahuā, Pāhinahina, 
Mākīloa, Kalālā, Kokiʻo, Pōhakuloa, Kaihōʻoā, Kiʻiokalani, Puaiki, 
Puanui, Kehena, Kaupalaoa, Makeanehu, Kaiholena Paoʻo, Lamaloloa, 
Kaipuhaʻa, Kaʻōaeae, Koaiʻe, Lapakahi, Puʻukole Kaʻoma Māhukona, 
Kamanō, Kou, Kapaʻa, Kapunapuna, Hāʻena, Awalua, Kukuipahu, 
Puakea, Honoipu, ʻUpolu, Kokoiki, and Puʻuepa.  
(6) Hāmākua: Manawaiale‘e, Kaiwiki, Niupeʻa, Māʻonakōmālie, Keʻehia, Kaʻala, Kealakaha, Hōʻea, Manowaikōhau, Kaʻāwikiwiki, Kekualele, 
Kaʻao, Kūkaʻiau, Koholālele, Kaʻohe, ʻAʻāmanu, Paʻauilo, Hauola, 22 
	ʻOpihilala, Mānienie, Kamōʻauʻau, Kamaui, Pōhakuhaku, Kemau, 
Kaumōʻali, Kaunāmano, Heneheneʻula, Kalua, Naohuleʻelua, Kaʻohe,  
Kaʻapahu, Waikaʻalulu, Papalele, Kalōpā, Keāhua, Māhukuolo, Wēhā, 
Pāʻauhau, Kaʻao, Ōuhi, Pakīloa, Kalua, Pāʻalae, Nienie, Pāpaʻanui, Haina, 
Nāmoku, Pāpuaʻa, Laukā, Kulihaʻi, Āhualoa, Papaki, Au, Kuilei, Kawela, 
Honokaiʻa, Mālanahae, Kapaʻaʻula, Māwai, Moʻoiki, Haukoʻi, Kaʻahakea, 
Kaʻauhuhu, Kapulena, Waiʻaleʻale, Waikōloa, Kamoku, Pāpalapuka, 
Paʻakō, Niupuka, Hanapai, Kalakalaʻui, Puʻuʻōpaha, Keaʻa, Waikoʻekoʻe, 
Kanāhonua, Kukuihaele, Lālākea, Waipiʻo, Muliwai, Wai manu, 
Laupāhoehoe, Nākoʻokā, ʻĀpua, Waikapu, and Honopue.  
 
 
 
PART  4   
 
SEVERABILITY 
 
 
§ 4.1 Severability.  If any provision of these rules or the application thereof to 
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity shall not affect other provi sions 
or applications of these rules which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application; and to this end, the provisions of these rules are declared to be severable.   
	23 
	ATTACHMENT A	
Hawaiian Terms and their Descriptions for Landscape Zones Based on Elevation	
	
  Concepts or Descriptions  
Hawaiian Terms  Generalized 
Hawaiian Terms  Pogue (1978:10 –11) Malo (1951:16 –17) Kamakau  
(1976:8 –9) 
wēkiu, kualono, 
pane po‘o, piko    peak peaks or ridges 
forming summits peak of mountain , hills 
on top of kuahiwi  
loa‘i pele, lua pele, 
lua‘i   craters on peak  rounded abysses are 
craters  round places on top of 
kuahiwi -craters  
mauna, kua lono, 
kuahiwi  kuahiwi -
mountain; mauna-
entire mountain; high elevation in the middle of the 
island  high elevation in 
middle of island  mountains in 
island’s center  above where forests 
grow  
kua mauna, 
mauna, kahakua    below kuahiwi  mountainside below 
kuahiwi  highest  places which 
cover over in fog and 
have great flanks 
[slopes] behind and in front, directly in front 
of or in back of 
summit, mountain top  
kuamuamu, 
kuaheaia, kuahea    below mauna where 
scattered trees grow  below mauna where 
small trees grow  below  kua mauna  
wao waonahele, 
wao ‘ēiwa, 
kuahiwi, wao l ā‘au kawao- inland 
regions  below kuahea  below kuahea where 
larger sized forest  
trees grow  makai of kuahea is 
kuahiwi proper, where 
small trees begin to 
grow, timberland 
mauka of wao koa  
wao maʻukele, 
wao kele wao lipo, 
wao koa    below wao  ‘ēiwa 
where tall trees grow; 
inland regions where 
koa can grow  below wao  ‘ēiwa 
where monarchs of 
the forest grow  region where trees are 
tall; inland regions 
where koa can grow  
wao ‘ēiwa       makai  of wao lipo  
wao ma‘ukele        makai of wao  ‘ēiwa 
wao akua    below wao ma ʻukele 
where fewer trees are 
found  below wao 
maʻukele where 
trees of smaller size 
grow  makai of wao lipo, 
makai of wao 
ma‘ukele  
wao kanaka, mau    where  tree fern 
(‘ama‘u‘ama‘u) 
grows and man 
cultivates  below wao akua 
where men cultivate the land and fern 
grows  makai of wao akua, 
area where people 
cultivate  
        
	 	24 
		
	
  Concepts or Descriptions  
Hawaiian Terms  Generalized 
Hawaiian Terms  Pogue (1978:10 –11) Malo (1951:16 –17) Kamakau  
(1976:8 –9) 
‘ama‘u  
 
 
āpa‘a, ‘ilima,  
 
 
 
‘ilima, wao ‘ilima  
 pāhe‘e    
 
 
below wao kanaka  
 
 
 
below āpa‘a 
 below ilima   
 
 
below mau where 
land is hard, baked, 
or sterile  
 
below āpa‘a 
 
below ilima where 
land is slippery  makai of wao kanaka, 
the fern belt  
 
both terms refer to 
areas makai of ‘ama‘u, 
grasslands  
 
 
 makai of āpaʻa, and 
ʻilima, pili grass and 
ʻilima growths  
kula kula-plain, field, 
open country  below the pā he‘e 
where people dwell  below  pāhe‘e where 
there is open 
country, near to 
habitations of men  makai of p āhe‘e, open 
country 
kahakai    beach along sea  below kula  
bordering the ocean  coast  
kahaone, kalawa        sandy beach, curve of 
the seashore down to 
the water ’s edge  
‘ae kai       Water’s edge  
	25 
	 
Hawaiian ecological zones (Mueller -Dombois 2007 adapted from Handy and Handy 1972).  
  
26 
	ATTACHMENT B	
Hawaiian Terms for Landscape and Oceanscape Features 
 
(adapted from Native Planters, Handy, Handy, & Pukui (rev. ed. 1991))	
	
 
27 
	
28 
	  
29 
	Definitions and Descriptions of Land and Ocean Terms  
from Native Planters, Handy, Handy, & Pukui  (rev. ed. 1991)  
 
Moku = cut off, detached – refers to an island.  The use of “moku” by Polynesians in general suggest and 
understanding that islands are segments that were part of a larger continental land mass, but are now cut 
off. 
  
Large islands = mokupuni.  
 
ʻokana = large districts  
 
Other names/colloquialisms:  
 Moku -o-loko = interior division, the major division or district  
 
Kalana = same as ʻokana; but other definitions differ, suggesting kalana are subdistricts/subsections to the 
larger districts ( ʻokana)  
 
The moku -o-loko or ʻ okana were subdivided into ahupua ʻa – the chief political subdivision for the purpose 
of taxation.   
 
ʻIli or ʻili ʻāina = the most permanent units of land, the sections of the ahupua ʻa allotted to the families 
which lived on them and cultivated them.   It is likely that the right to continue to use and to cultivate ʻili 
stayed with the ʻohana (extended families) regardless of any transfer of title to the ahupua ʻa.  The ʻili was a 
land division, whereas the ahupua ʻa was a tax unit.  
 Different kinds of ʻili: 
 ʻili pa ʻa = complete ʻili, in one piece  
 
ʻili lele (jump strips) = ʻili in separate pieces, near the sea and in the uplands.   
Example:  a beach plot in Kaka ʻako, O ʻahu, taro plots near a Spring (Punahou), and a forest patch on the 
steep slope above M ānoa Valley comprise one ʻili lele.  
 
ʻili ku p ono ( ʻili standing in their own right) = strip of land not subject to transfer at the time of 
reallocation of landed chiefdoms as compared to ʻili o ka ahupua ʻa (ʻili belonging to the ahupua ʻa).  ʻili ku 
pono, of all divisions and varieties of land rights , carried the only form of title that was permanent.  These 
ʻili kupono were tax -free and exempt from even the slight tribute of work usually required of other ʻili ku 
pono proprietors by their superior chief.  Ka ʻahumanu possessed ʻili of this sort also, in Waikiki.  On O ʻahu 
there were ʻ ili that were independent of any ahupua ʻa. 
 
Moʻo or mo ʻo ʻāina = long strips of arable land within an ʻili.  Usually associated with wet -taro planting in 
valley bottoms where strips of loʻ i extend along the streams and dit ches, although dryland kalo and sweet 
potato planting were also called moʻ o. 
 
Moʻo ʻai = refers specifically to a strip of land where taro was planted  
 Moʻo kuapapa lo ʻi = long row of lo ʻi 
 It was the practice of planters to give individual names to their moʻo ʻāina. 
Other Terms Referencing Land Usage:  
 
pauku ʻāina (piece cut off) = parcels of land where wet taro was grown, but smaller in area than moʻ o. 30 
	 
loʻi = a single irrigated taro flat  
 
kuauna/kuaio/ika/ikaika = banks of taro flats, upon which banana a nd sugar cane were planted.  The banks 
were made solid when built by beating with the butt ends of coconut leaf stems (ku ʻau). 
 
koele/hakuone/kuakua = farms of the ali ʻi on kula lands (which the maka ʻainana cultivated for the ali ʻi) 
 
koele – farm cultivate d for ali ʻi (does not refer to a subdivision, but to a reserved plot)  
 
hakuone – farm cultivated for konohiki  (does not refer to a subdivision, but to a reserved plot)  
 mahina ʻai = farms of the people on kula lands  
 
kihapai = piece of land, other than l oʻi, cultivated by hoa ʻāina (tenant) that is his plantation (as 
distinguished from koele or haku one cultivated for the ali ʻi and konohiki).  Kihapai is “a dry land patch 
demarked by ridges of small stones, earth or weeds)  
 
iwi (bone) or iwi kuamo ʻo (backbone) = the line of rocks and refuse thrown up along the side of mo ʻo ʻāina 
or kihapai in clearing .  these iwi or iwi ʻā ina demarked boundaries of plantations and arable holdings.  
Hence they were called palena (bounds).   Not mere rubbish heaps, but served for planting sugar cane round 
about the field of dry taro in upland Kona, Kaʻ u, and Kohala .  In upland Kona, palena may be seen buried 
in woods or occasionally bounding taro plantations. On windward O ʻahu, and on hillsides of M aunaloa, 
Molokai, iwi ʻāina separating former sweet -potato patches are evident as dry lines of stones descending 
with the slope.  These are also present on Lana ʻi. 
 
waena (in the midst) = types of clearings used on Hawai ʻi island to plant dryland  taro, th ese were cleaning 
made in the midst of forests from Hilo to Kona  
 
paʻeli = an enclosed place (pa) where a planter digs holes ( ʻeli), applied to taro plantings on dry lava slopes 
such as those of coastal Kona and parts of Ka ʻu, where each taro was planted i n a hole excavated in 
crumbling lava.  
 
Pa kukui – taro cultivated in enclosed clearings (pa) in the candlenut (kukui) groves of the lower forest 
zone, as was seen in Hamakua, Hawai ʻi before the forests were destroyed on the slopes to make way for 
sugar -cane fields.  Taro flourished in the pa kukui, fertilized by decaying leaves, trunks, and branches of 
kukui.  
 
Pa pulupulu = where  there were fern -tree (pulupulu) forests at relatively low altitudes such as in the Hilo 
and Puna districts of Hawai ʻi island. Th e kupuna toppled over fern trunks and planted kalo within the holes 
made by the removal.  The discarded fern trunks with their starchy core removed for use as food for men or 
feed for hogs were heaped around the clearing, making an enclosure (pa).  
 
Mahina ʻai (contraction for mahi ana i ka ʻai for “cultivation of food”) = not a land division term, but 
merely designated land under cultivation, specifically taro, for ʻai refers particularly to taro, “the food,” or 
staple.  Refers to dry -taro cultivation as well as wet.  
Pawa – an open expanse or a period of time, used for “open ground under cultivation,” has same general 
meaning as mahina ʻai and mala  
 Kuakua – section (also applied to a section of fishnet), referred to small sections of arable land, but not as  
specific a designation for a subdivision as ʻili, mo ʻo, and pauku  
 
Au – descriptive term applied to lands where taro was cultivated  31 
	 
Kaha – descriptive term applied to lands where taro could not be cultivated  
 
Mala – field or patch in which sweet potatoe s were planted, or that was used for this purposes.  Stone lines 
thrown up along the sides of the mala were termed iwi  
 
Ika – bounds marked along the edges of a plot where grass and weeds were thrown out. 
 
Kaika – refers to cultivated piece of land (may be  a shortening of ikaika) a planting ground marked with a 
number of ika between patches  
 
koele – farm cultivated for ali ʻi (does not refer to a subdivision, but to a reserved plot)  
 hakuone – farm cultivated for konohiki  (does not refer to a subdivision, but to a reserved plot  
 koele and hakuone were named; in the days of the monarchy they came to be called poalima (fifth day) patches because tenants were required to work on them on Fridays.  
Koele title is not like the ʻili kupono,  it was merely a piece of land a llocated to his own use by the ali ʻi of 
the ahupua ʻa or ʻ okana during the perd of his proprietorship  
 
Irrigated lo ʻi were demarked by ʻauwai, streams, or earth or stone embankments of terraces  
 Strips (mo ʻo) of dry arable la nd planted in dry taro or sweet potato were bounded generally by little ridges 
(iwi) of stone thrown up out of the fields.   
 
Ipu kai (meat bowl) – strip of beach land with its fishing rights  
 
Umeke ʻai (poi container hung in a net) – upland plot for culti vation  
 Other Land Areas:  geographical in nature rather than dealing strictly with habitation or cultivation.  
 
Ko Kaha Kai (land by the sea) – where canoe made landfall, a broad sandy beach and the flats above it, or 
the more rugged shore of cove or harbo r with its rocky terrain – depending on locale.  
 
Kaha = term applied to areas facing the shore but not favorable for planning.   
 ʻilima = terrain just above the sandy stretches (pu ʻeone), so named because often ʻilima papa grew there, 
also pohuehue and ʻauhuhu to stun fish in the inlets and sea pools.  ʻilima terrain was part of the ko kaha 
kai.  The plants growing in the ko kaha kai were useful to the planter’s or fisher’s economy.  
  
Kula lands – the plains or sloping lands between mountain and sea, witho ut trees, stretches of pili grass 
used to make thick rain -repellant thatch for hale, sweet potatoes, red soil typical of kula lands both on 
leeward and windward coasts, where pineapple and sugar cane grow now.   Red soil is oldest geologically, 
evolved fro m decomposed basalt oxidized by sun, rain, and air.  
 
Ko kula uka – upland slopes, native ginger and other flowering plants, medicinal herbs, thich -growing 
clumps of shrubs, variety of trees  
 Kahawai – the place having fresh water, area beyond or intersecti ng the kula lands, prime lands for 
habitation and subsistence.  The valley stretching down from the forested uplands, carved out and made rhich in humus by its flowing stream.  Here maka ʻainana made level plots for taro terraces, diverting stream 
water thr ough ʻauwai into the loʻ I, or descending series of loʻ i.  maka ʻainana could build home here or put 32 
	a shelter for heavy cultivation periods and put main dwelling below.  This is the area also to access 
medicinal herbs and flowers.  
 
pahe ʻe = a wet, soft, or slippery area  
 
apaʻa = arid or dry  
 paʻa means firmly bound,  also became a term of affection for land long lived upon.  
 Wao = the wild, a place distant and not often penetrated by humans.  
 Wao la ʻau = inland forested region, often a jungle, above the upland kula slopes reaching to high 
elevations.  
 
Hawaiians recognized and named many divisions or aspects of the wao:  
 
Wao kanaka = the reaches most accessible, and most valuable, to the people  
 
Wao kanaka and wao la ʻau provided the people with the hard wo od of the koa for spears, utensils, and logs 
for boat hulls; lauhala for thatch and mats; mamaki tree bark for making kapa cloth; kukui fo roil and 
lights; wild yams and roots for famine time; sandalwood, prized when shaved or ground as a  sweet scent 
for bedding and stored garments.  
 Wao akua = denser and higher elevations above, forest of the gods, remote, awesome, seldom penetrated, source of supernatural influences, both evil and beneficient  
 
Wao kele or wao ma ʻu kele = the rain forest, where giant tree s and tree ferns ( ʻamaʻu) under almost 
perpetual cloud and rain.  
 
Kuahiwi (backbone) = mountain range or mountainous region 
 Kuamauna = the mountain top  
 Kualono = the high reaches just below the mountain top  
Mauna = the term for a specific mountain mass ( e.g. Mauna Kea)  
 Pali = precipice  
  33 
	 
ATTACHMENT C	
Sample Communication and Networking Form	
	
	
‘Aha Moku Advisory Committee	
Communication and Networking Form	
	
Month:  June/ July	
	
Section 1: For Executive Director	
List of all Issues Forwarded for AMAC Review/ Action (including internal) for the 
month:	
1. Resolution to recognize and thank AG and Governor for financial support through oil spill trust funds. 
2. Suggested dates for AMAC meetings through rest of year. 
3. Additional comments for Administrative Rules draft. 
4.   Etc. 
	
Section 2:  For AMAC Committee Members       Description	
Island: 	
	
Issue:                                                                                                    	
Case No.(if available)	
Brief explanation of issue:	
	
Method of Public Engagement (please describe the process of gathering public input and 
feedback, including the number of public responding):		
Kūkākūkā: 	
Invites comments and questions from Committee		
Committee Recommendation:	
Some recommendations will need to be held for quarterly meetings.  Others (minor 
issues) may be made after allowing for communication through this process.  	
	
	 	34 
		
Section 2:  For Committee Members:	
	
Island:  Hawai’i	
1. Issue:                                                                                                     
2. Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue: 
4. Method of Public Engagement (please describe the process of gathering public 
input and feedback, including the number of public responding): 
5. Kūkākūkā 
6. Committee Recommendation: 
Island:  Maui	
1.  Issue:                                                                                                     
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue: 
4.  Method of Public Engagement (please describe the process of gathering public 
input and feedback, including the number of public responding):  
5.  Kūkākūkā 
6.  Committee Recommendation: 
Island:  Kaho’olawe	
1.  Issue:                                                                                                     
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue: 
4.  Method of Public Engagement (please describe the process of gathering public 
input and feedback, including the number of public responding): 
5.  Kūkākūkā 
 Committee Recommendation:	
Island:  Lana’i	
1.  Issue:                                                                                                     
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue: 
4.  Method of Public Engagement (please describe the process of gathering public 
input and feedback, including the number of public responding):  
5.  Kūkākūkā 
 Committee Recommendation:	35 
	Island:  Moloka’i	
1.  Issue:  Ocean usage for Sport Events (Canoe, paddleboard, etc.)                                                                                                   
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue:  Usage and resource impacts problematic on 
Moloka’i.  All interested individuals and organizations - including canoe and 
paddleboard associations- will collaborate together to begin a creation of island 
standards and expectations for resource management during events (areas of 
protection, capping the number of total boats at one time, overfishing, etc.) .  The 
outcome of this working group will be presented to the ‘Aha Kiole o Moloka’I 
(‘AKM) Island Council to be forwarded as a recommendation to the DLNR- 
DAR and DOBOR. 
4.  Method of Public Engagement: Meeting being held on June 29, 4:30pm at OHA conference room.   
5.  Kūkākūkā 
 Committee Recommendation:	
	
Island:  Moloka’i	
1.  Issue:  Facilitate Public Meeting for East End Boat Ramp Proposal  
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue:  The Mana’e community has indicated an interest in 
the ‘AKM facilitating a meeting to address the proposal to place a boat ramp to 
serve Mana’e area.  To date:  Many residents against, some for.  The ‘AKM 
would like to insure that all Mana’e moku residents have an opportunity to voice 
their mana’o, which will be presented to the ‘AKM Island Council to be 
forwarded as a recommendation to the DLNR, County Council and 
Legislature.   
4. Method of Public Engagement: Plans will be to go to each of the major ‘ahupua’a that has the potential for a boat ramp.  Begin in July.  
5.  Kūkākūkā 
 Committee Recommendation:		
Island:  Moloka’i	
1.  Issue:  CBSFA for Mo’omomi 
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue: The ‘AKM Pala’au Moku leadership facilitated in the 
initiation of the Mo’omomi Konohiki Council, which would be the community 
management portion of the proposed Mo’omomi CBSFA.  Seventeen Pala’au 
Moku po’o (all) signed in support of the letter that went to each of the 20 moku 
residents     ( randomly selected from a broad range within the community - no 
interest groups, and including opposition) invited  to serve as initial community board for resource management of the area.  18 accepted.  
4. Method of Public Engagement: ‘AKM will facilitate the first meeting in July to start the process of organization and operations for this council, which continue 
independently afterward.  The results of the initial meeting will be presented to 36 
	the ‘AKM Island Council to be forwarded to the DLNR- CBSFA unit. 
5. Kūkākūkā   
 Committee Recommendation:	
Island:  Moloka’i	
1.  Issue:  Commercial Hunting of Axis deer on Moloka’i 
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue:  Because of the recent interest of island residents in 
the issue of deer hunting for commercial use, both for and against, the ‘AKM has 
initiated a community meeting for each moku to gather public sentiment and to 
consider a management plan from the information gathered.  The outcome of 
these community gatherings will be presented to the ‘AKM Island Council to 
be forwarded as a recommendation to the DLNR- DOFAW.    
4. Method of Public Engagement: First meeting for all island:  June 28 Mitchell 
Pau’ole Center 
5.  Kūkākūkā 
 Committee Recommendation:		
Island:  Oa’hu	
1.  Issue:                                                                                                     
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue: 
4.  Method of Public Engagement (please describe the process of gathering public 
input and feedback, including the number of public responding):  
5.  Kūkākūkā 
 Committee Recommendation:	
Island:  Kaua’i	
1.  Issue:                                                                                                     
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue: 
4.  Method of Public Engagement (please describe the process of gathering public 
input and feedback, including the number of public responding):  
5.  Kūkākūkā 
 Committee Recommendation:	37 
	Island:  Ni’ihau	
1.  Issue:                                                                                                     
2.  Case No.(if available) 
3.  Brief explanation of issue: 
4.  Method of Public Engagement (please describe the process of gathering public 
input and feedback, including the number of public responding):  
5.  Kūkākūkā 
 Committee Recommendation:

--- Text from PDF (https://luc.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/2024-calendar.pdf) ---
Land Use Commission Tentative Meeting Dates  2024  
January 
 February  
 March  
S M T W T F S S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
 1 2 3 4 5 6     1 2 3      1 2 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
28 29 30 31    25 26 27 28 29   24 25 26 27 28 29 30 
              31       
   
April  May  
 June 
S M T W T F S S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
 1 2 3 4 5 6 
    1 2 3 4       1 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 
28 29 30     26 27 28 29 30 31  23 24 25 26 27 28 29 
              30       
   
July 
 August  
 September  
S M T W T F S S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
 1 2 3 4 5 6     1 2 3 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
28 29 30 31    25 26 27 28 29 30 31 29 30      
 
  
  
October November  December  
S M T W T F S S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
  1 2 3 4 5      1 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
27 28 29 30 31   24 25 26 27 28 29 30 29 30 31     
 
       Red = State Holidays (Office Closed)  
       Yellow = Tentative Meeting Dates

--- Text from PDF (https://luc.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/2024-calendar.pdf) ---
Land Use Commission Tentative Meeting Dates  2024  
January 
 February  
 March  
S M T W T F S S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
 1 2 3 4 5 6     1 2 3      1 2 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
28 29 30 31    25 26 27 28 29   24 25 26 27 28 29 30 
              31       
   
April  May  
 June 
S M T W T F S S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
 1 2 3 4 5 6 
    1 2 3 4       1 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 
28 29 30     26 27 28 29 30 31  23 24 25 26 27 28 29 
              30       
   
July 
 August  
 September  
S M T W T F S S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
 1 2 3 4 5 6     1 2 3 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
28 29 30 31    25 26 27 28 29 30 31 29 30      
 
  
  
October November  December  
S M T W T F S S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
  1 2 3 4 5      1 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
27 28 29 30 31   24 25 26 27 28 29 30 29 30 31     
 
       Red = State Holidays (Office Closed)  
       Yellow = Tentative Meeting Dates

--- Text from PDF (https://luc.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/CHAPTER-205_TOC_2016_link.pdf) ---
Part I.  Generally  CHAPTER 205 
LAND USE COMMISSION 
 
Section  
205-1 Establishment of  the commission 
205-2 Districting and classification  of lands  
205-3 Retention of district boundaries  
205-3.1 Amendments to district boundaries  
205-3.5  Reclassification of land contiguous to an agricultural district; approval conditions 
205-4  Amendments to district boundaries involving land areas greater than fifteen acres 
205-4.1 Fees 
205-4.5 Permissible uses within the agricultural districts  
205-4.6 Private restrictions on agricultural uses and activities; not allowed 
205-5 Zoning 
 
205-5.1 to 5.3 Repealed  
 
205-6  Special  permit 
205-7 Adoption, amendment or repeal of  rules 
205-8 Nonconforming  uses 
 
205-9 to 11 Repealed  
 
205-12 Enforcement  
  205- 13 Penalty for  violation  
205-14 Repealed by Act 52, 2016 
205-15 Conflict  
205-16 Compliance with the Hawaii state  plan 
205-16.1, 16.2 Repealed  
205-17 Land use commission decision- making criteria 
205-18 Periodic review of  districts  
205-19 Contested  Cases 
Part II. Shoreline Setbacks 
205-31 to 37 Repealed  
Part III.  Important Agricultural Lands  
205-41 Declaration of  policy  
205-42 Important agricultural lands; definition and objectives 
205-43 Important agricultural lands;  policies  
205-44 Standards and criteria for the identification of important agricultural lan ds 
205-44.5 Important agricultural lands; public  lands    205- 45 Petition by farmer or  landowner  
  205- 45.5 Important agricultural land; farm dwellings and  employee  housing 
  205- 46 Incentives for important agricultural lands  
205-46.5 Agricultural processing facilities; permits; priority  
  205- 47 Identification of important agricultural lands; county  process  
  205- 48 Receipt of maps of eligible important agricultural lands; land use  commission  
  205- 49 Designation o f IAL; adoption of IAL maps  
  205- 50 Standards and criteria for the reclassification or rezoning of IAL 
  205- 51 Important agricultural lands; county  ordinances  
  205- 52 Periodic review and amendment of important agricultural lands  maps

--- Text from PDF (https://luc.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/LUC-UIPA-Request.pdf) ---
OIP 1 (rev. 12/1 /2015) REQUEST TO ACCESS A GOVERNMENT RECORD  
Thi
s is a model form that may be used by a Requester to provide sufficient information for an agenc y to process a 
record request.  Although the Requester is not required to use this form or to provide any personal inf ormation, 
the agency needs enough information to contact the Requester with questions about this request or to provide its 
response.  This request may not be processed if the agency has insufficient information or is unable to contact the 
Requester.   
DAT E: _____________________
_______  
TO: ________________________________________________________________________________  
Agency that Maintains the Government Record  
_________________________________________________________________________________________  
Agency’s Contact Information  
FROM : _________________________________________________________________________________________  
Requester’s Name or Alias   
_______
__________________________________________________________________________________  
Requester’s C ontact Informatio n  
_________________________________________________________________________________________  
AS THE REQUESTER, I WOULD LIKE THE FOLLOWING GOVERNMENT RECORD : 
Describe the government record as specifically as possible so that it can be located.  Try to provide a record name, 
subject matter, date, location, purpose, or names of persons to whom the record refers, or other information that 
could help the a gency identify the record.  A complete and accurate description of the requested government 
record will prevent delays in locating the record.  Attach additional page s if needed. 
I WOULD LIKE :       (Please check one or more of the options below , as applicable ) 
To inspect the government record  
A copy of the government record:   ( Please check only one of the options below.)  See the next page for 
information about fees  and costs that you may be required to pay for agency services to process your 
record request.  Note: Copying and transmission charges may also apply to certain options.  
 Pick up at agency (date and time ):  ________________________________________________ _______  
 Mail  (address):  __________________________________________________________________   
E-mail  (address):  ________________________________________________________________
Fax (toll free and only if available; provide fax number):  ________________________________
Other, if available (ple ase specify):  _______________________________________________________
If the agency maintains the records in a form other than paper , please advise in which 
format you would prefer to have the record . 
  Electr onic     Audio     Other (please specify): _______________________  
Check this box if you are attaching a request for waiver of fees in the public interest  
 (See waiver information on next page ).   OIP 1 (rev. 12/1 /2015) FEES FOR  PROCESSING PUBLIC RECORD REQUESTS  
 
You may be charged fees for the services that the agency must perform when processing your request  for public 
records,  including fees for making photocopies and other lawful fees.  The first $30 of fees charged for 
searching for a record, reviewing, and segregating will not be charged to you.  Any amount over $30 will be 
charged to you.  Fees are as follows:  
 
Search for a Record       $2.50 for 15 minutes 
Review and Segregation of a Record     $5.00 for 15 minutes 
 
General ly, no search, review, and segregation fees may be charged if you are making a request for personal 
records that are about you. 
 
WAIVER OF FEES IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST  
 
As an alternative to the $30 fee waiver  (not in addition to) , the agency may waive the f irst $60 of fees for 
searching for, reviewing and segregating records when the waiver would serve the public interest .  If you wish to 
apply for a waiver of fees in the public interest, you must attach to this request a statement of facts, including your 
identity as the requester, to show how the waiver of fees would serve the public interest.  The criteria for this 
waiver, found at section 2-71-32, Hawaii Administrative Rules, are 
 (1) The requested record pertains to the operations or activities of an agency; 
(2) The record is not readily available in the public domain; and 
(3) The requester has the primary intention and the actual ability to widely disseminate information from the government record to the public at large. 
 
COSTS  
 
The Agency may charge you any other lawful fees and the costs to copy and deliver your personal or public record request.  
 
AGENCY RESPONSE TO YOUR REQUEST FOR ACCESS   
 
The agency to which you addressed your request must respond within a set time period.  The agency will normally respond to you within 10 business days from the date it receives your request; however, in extenuating 
circumstances, the agency must respond within 20 business days from the date of your request.  If you have 
questions about the response time or the records being sou ght, you should first contact the agency and request to 
consult with the agency’s UIPA contact person.     
Please note that the Office of Information Practices (OIP) does not maintain the records of other agencies 
and a requester must seek records directly  from the agency .  If the agency denies or fails to respond to your 
written request for records or if you have other questions regarding compliance with the UIPA, then you may 
contact OIP at 808-586-1400, oip@hawaii.gov
, or 250 S outh Hotel Street, Suite 107, Honolulu, Hawaii  96813. 
 
REQUESTER 'S RESPONSIBILITIES  
 
You have certain responsibilities under section 2-71- 16, Hawaii Administrative Rule s, which include making 
arrangements to inspect and copy records, providing further clarification or description of the requested record as 
instructed by the agency's notice, and making a prepayment of fees  and costs , if assessed.  The r ules and 
additional training materials are available online at oip.hawaii.gov or from OIP .
