Source URL: https://newoahujail.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
New OCCC Skip to content Menu Menu CONCEPTS FAQ THE NEW OAHU JAIL The Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (DCR) Future Plans The State of Hawaii is dedicated to transforming its unified correctional system into a rehabilitative, restorative, and reentry-focused system that reduces recidivism and promotes safer communities. A priority project is the replacement of the Oahu Community Correctional Center (OCCC), an increasingly aging and obsolete facility. A new jail will employ the latest cost-savings technologies, allow DCR to better meet the needs of adults in custody, and provide continued safety and security for all communities. The new jail will incorporate current best practices and evidence-based opportunities for self-improvement With the planning process well underway, this page will be regularly updated with current information regarding the Oahu jail project, public outreach activities, milestones, and accomplishments. contact us Please send us feedback, comments, or questions about the project. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Company Message Would you like to join our email list to receive project updates? Yes, sign me up! SEND DCR’s Mission The mission of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (DCR) is to provide a secure correctional environment for comprehensive rehabilitative, holistic, and wraparound re-entry services, including culturally based approaches, to persons sentenced to our custody and care with professionalism, integrity, respect, and fairness. Our goal is to reduce recidivism and enhance the safety and security of our communities. For more information about the DCR, go to: https://dcr.hawaii.gov/. View Our Presentation presentation-ACA-New-Oahu-Jail-v2.6-8-14-24-FINAL OCCC Newsletters October, 2024 Future of The O’ahu Correctional Facility Vol. 55 DCR Officials Attend American Correctional Association Conference. The State of Hawai’i is dedicated to transforming its unified correctional system… Read more June, 2024 What Purpose Do Jails Serve, and How Are They Different From Prisons? Vol. 53 When it comes to the criminal justice system in the United States, the terms jail and prison are often used interchangeably… Read More April, 2024 Community Outreach Engages Broad Audiences Vol. 52 More than 60 people attended the Oahu Community Correctional Center (OCCC) Community Engagement Workshop held at the Aiea Elementary School on February 1, 2024… READ MORE VIEW PAST NEWSLETTERS Concepts 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2018 2018 Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design. FAQ What are the goals of the new jail? Hawaii is dedicated to transforming its unified correctional system into a rehabilitative, restorative, and reentry-focused system that reduces recidivism and promotes safer communities. Another goal for the new jail, Oahu Community Correctional Center (OCCC), is to keep adults in custody connected to their individual cultural values, especially for Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders who are disproportionately represented within the population. We believe this is critical to help them successfully reintegrate into our local communities and to break the cycle of recidivism. The new jail will incorporate current best practices and evidence-based opportunities for self-improvement such as education, vocational skills training, faith- and culture-based activities, a library, treatment for substance abuse, counseling, mental health therapy, and re-entry with community linkages for housing, employment, social services, health care, and transportation. The plan calls for 1,000 (+/-) permanent detention beds, including beds for acute and sub-acute mental health issues, skilled nursing, and restrictive beds, and 295 (+/-) transition re-entry beds. Has the site received all the approvals necessary to move forward? The site has been established on state-owned land with community input and after careful consideration of other locations, including the redevelopment of the current site. As noted in our accomplishments to date, a majority of the planning and land entitlement issues have already been addressed. Is the community onboard? The local community, state and government officials, and supporting infrastructure agencies have all been part of a transparent, inclusive, and open communication and dialogue process, which will continue through the final phase into completion. We all agree on the importance of taking care of our jail population to ensure successful reintegration into our communities. What are the next steps? Continued public outreach and commitment to transparency, inclusivity, and open dialogue throughout the development and implementation of a Request for Proposals (RFP) process for this public-private partnership (P3) project. Working with state and other government officials on potential project delivery methods and financial or other funding resources that may be available to supplement the developer’s investment. The RFP process is expected to begin in 2025 with issuance of a Request for Qualifications (RFQ), progressing through project award in 2026. Is there anything distinctive about this new jail? This is an opportunity to start from the ground up and partner with Hawaii, helping us learn from your experiences to create a healing facility that is grounded in the values of our island culture. What is the current cost estimate for construction for the project and when was the estimate done? $937 million as of 2023. Has there been an update to that estimate? No update in 2024. We estimate the cost escalation between 2023 to 2027 to be $3.5 million per month. What is the project delivery method? If not decided, which ones are you considering? We are looking at variations of the Design Build Finance Maintain (DBFM) model. Does the project have both administrative and legislative support? The effort to build a new Oahu jail facility has been supported through all of the necessary phases to bring us to this milestone, beginning with the appropriation of $5.0 million to fund planning by Act 122, Session Laws of Hawaiʻi (SLH) 2014. This effort allowed for the completion of critical initial planning due diligence. This was followed by $5.4 million in Act 124, SLH 2016, for the next phase of planning due diligence. $4.5 million was provided from the Governor’s discretionary funds in 2023 to complete the necessary planning and design efforts. The most recent appropriation of $10 million by Act 230, SLH 2024, provides funding to complete the procurement process. This is in keeping with the anticipated project phases, and we are committed to working with the administration and the legislature for the 2025 legislative session to ensure we continue to get the necessary support to bring this project to fruition. Given priorities such as Maui fire recovery, is there room for OCCC at this time? Even though the Maui fire recovery is important, full recovery will occur over decades. In the meantime, work to address the overall needs of the state must continue. There has been no change in the commitment to replace the current overcrowded and drastically outdated jail with a new modern, safe, secure and humane facility that has the capacity to provide rehabilitation, counseling, education and job training opportunities. Will there be a need for additional funding and where would that come from? In an effort to alleviate placing the full burden of funding this project on the state, this is being approached as a public-private (P3) project, essentially a long-term contract between the state and private entities to provide potential alternative sources of project funding to supplement the state’s funding commitment. Is it the state’s and department’s goal to build a jail that ties in the local culture? If so, how is that being accomplished? The project team is incorporating opportunities to integrate local and cultural considerations, specifically aina (land), ohana (family) and genealogy, around the expression and architecture of the proposed facility. A key goal for the project is to deliver a state-of-the-art secure facility that embodies these and other values of Hawaii and the local community. Are there climate change implications for building on the selected site? DCR is committed to addressing climate change and resiliency issues. One of the benefits to this site is that it is elevated above the tsunami zone with no anticipated sea level rise potential. The project will also incorporate the Governor’s Net Zero goals, as well as sustainability features. Are there cultural considerations in building this jail? Archaeological, historic, and cultural surveys and studies of the selected site have been conducted to State Historic Preservation Division’s (SHPD’s) satisfaction. Will OCCC’s existing site in urban Honolulu be included as part of the project? No. Is the pre-release (transitional) center included in the RFP? Yes. What happens if the project does not move forward? Is there a Plan B? At this point in time, the only alternative is the “do nothing” approach, which will have serious and long-lasting ill effects. The exponentially increased cost of deferred maintenance and upgrades; further decline in workforce retention and hiring; and increasingly negative humanitarian impact on occupants, staff and community are just a few of the dire effects of doing nothing. Have you gotten the necessary approvals, entitlements and permits already? The site has received the approvals necessary to move forward. The selected site, one of 12 alternative sites considered, consists of state-owned land and was chosen based on a variety of factors including community input. Project accomplishments to date include: Planning from 2016-2020: Population forecast Public outreach and engagement Alternative site identification and assessment Site selection Community partnering Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) Master plan Plan review use (PRU) application by City Council Boundary and topographic surveys Planning from 2020: Request for Interest (RFI) New jail population forecast Geotechnical and hazardous materials investigations Plan for new animal quarantine station Jail facility program Draft Request for Qualifications (RFQ) Building floor plans and site plan Cost estimate Property easements and entitlements Current phase: Project management and ongoing community outreach Restorative design report Value for money analysis update Program confirmation Communications working group bi-weekly meetings Industry sounding at ACA conference Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation 1177 Alakea Street Honolulu, HI 96813 info@NewOahuJail.com Terms of Service Privacy Policy Accessibility © 2024 State of Hawaii Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Close CONCEPTS FAQ

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://newoahujail.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/presentation-ACA-New-Oahu-Jail-v2.6-8-14-24-FINAL.pdf) ---
1
ALOHA!
He Au Hou… It’s a new era!
We provide new beginnings to those 
serving time in our facilities. I ask that you work with our dedicated team to help change lives and improve safety and security in our island home.
Mahalo,
Tommy Johnson, Director
MISSION
Provide a secure correctional environment for
comprehensive rehabilitative, holistic, and wraparound re-entry services, including culturally based approaches, 
with professionalism, integrity, respect, and fairness. 
In doing so, reduce recidivism and enhance the safety 
and security of our communities.
VISION
Transform Hawaii’s unified correctional system from 
a punitive model into a rehabilitative, restorative, and re -entry focused system that reduces recidivism 
and promotes safer communities.
VALUES
Rehabilitative sustainability through evidence -based
programs, including culturally based approaches, to 
rebuild and restore lives and the community. 
Transparency and accountability will remain the 
hallmark of the department to inspire trust in our employees from those in our custody and care, and the community we serve.
GOALS
Protect members of the community and their
property from victimization, caused through criminal 
actions, by managing secure institutions to detain individuals ordered into our custody and care.   
 Provide a safe and humane correctional setting for our employees and offenders. 
RESPONSIBILITIES
Over 95% of those who come to our correctional facilities 
will eventually be released. Most have challenging backgrounds, but they all have great potential. 
We strive to make the best use of the time we have with 
them and to help them see in themselves what we can 
see. Our hope is that each one makes that pivotal course correction, begins to turn their life around and be ready to seize every opportunity to lift themselves to a new place, rejoin their families, and start their lives afresh. 
8
HISTORY OF OCCC
1857Oahu Prison 
built in Iwilei
1916
Oahu Prison relocated to Kalihi1950New structures built to 
replace most 
1916 structures
1975
Oahu Prison redeveloped as OCCC; 
functions as 
both a jail and a prison1987OCCC felons transferred to new Halawa  
Correctional 
Facility
1998
Corrections 
Master Plan 
recommends 
replacing OCCC2003Corrections Master Plan Update 
recommends 
replacing OCCC
2014
Funds released for 
OCCC 
Planning effort2016Planning for new OCCC begins in earnestEXISTING OCCC FACILITY
• Obsolete and inefficient design
• Deteriorated physical plant
• Overcrowded
• Limited space restricts programs
• Lacks proper areas for treatment
• Limited security electronics and technology
• Lacks proper population distribution
HAWAII IS DEDICATED TO 
TRANSFORMING ITS UNIFIED CORRECTIONAL SYSTEM INTO A REHABILITATIVE, RESTORATIVE, AND REENTRY -FOCUSED SYSTEM THAT 
REDUCES RECIDIVISM AND PROMOTES SAFER COMMUNITIES. 
PROJECT PROGRESS
Request for Interest –  Completed
New OCCC population forecast – Completed
Geotechnical/hazardous materials investigations – Completed
New Animal Quarantine Station design –  Underway
Update OCCC development program – Underway
Prepare Request for Qualifications – Underway
Property entitlements –  Underway
Community outreach and engagement – Underway
BED TYPES & SPACE REQUIREMENTS
1,000 (+/ -) Detention Beds
Minimum, Medium, Maximum Security
Mental Health Special Needs
Medical Special Needs
Special Management
Support Beds
Acute Mental HealthSubacute Mental Health / Suicide Watch
Infirmary 
Restrictive Housing 
295 (+/ -) Transition Re -entry Beds
PROJECT CONCEPT
ILLUSTRATIVE SITE PLAN
Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design.PROJECT CONCEPT
AERIAL ILLUSTRATION, 2018
Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design.PROJECT CONCEPT
BIRDS EYE VIEW ILLUSTRATION, 2018
Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design.PROJECT CONCEPT
BIRDS EYE VIEW ILLUSTRATION, 2023
Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design.PROJECT CONCEPT
AERIAL ILLUSTRATION, 2023
Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design.PROJECT CONCEPT
AERIAL ILLUSTRATION, 2023
Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design.PROJECT CONCEPT
CONCEPTUAL RENDERING, 2023
Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design.PROJECT CONCEPT
CONCEPTUAL RENDERING, 2023
Please note: All renderings of the proposed new jail are conceptual. The project is still in the early stages of design.CURRENT ACTIVITIES
• Community Outreach and Engagement
• Facility Program Confirmation
• Site Plan Confirmation 
• Value for Money Analysis Update
• Risk Workshop
• Cost Estimate Update
PROJECT TIMELINE
2025 2027 2029 2031

--- Text from PDF (http://newoahujail.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Hawaii-OCCC_newsletter_Vol55-007-OCTOBER-2024.pdf) ---
Industry turns out for New O 'ahu Jail at 
American Correctional Association Conference
The State of Hawai' i is dedicated to transforming its unified correctional system
into one that more effectively reduces recidivism and promotes safer communities. 
The centerpiece to that transformation is replacement of the O'ahu Community 
Correctional Center (OCCC), a facility that does not contribute to the rehabilita-
tive, restorative, and reentry-focused system being sought by DCR.
From August 15 – 18, 2024, Project Team members shared plans for the new 
O'ahu jail at the 154th Congress of Corrections sponsored by the American 
Correctional Association (ACA) in Nashville, Tennessee. Attending ACA offered a 
unique opportunity to share information about DCR and the transformation taking 
place to Hawai'i’s correctional system with a particular focus on the new O'ahu
jail and DCR’s efforts to create a healing facility that is grounded in the values of 
the island culture. Much was also learned from the experiences of others who 
have developed or are engaged in developing modern correctional facilities.
Team members attended workshops and panel discussions relevant to developing 
the new O'ahu jail. DCR also arranged for a booth in the exhibition hall where 
designers, constructors, financiers, product vendors and service providers could
visit with our team. The booth proved to be popular with many conference 
attendees stopping by to inquire about the project and to share their own 
experiences and lessons learned in developing new facilities.Vol. 55 - DCR Officials Attend American Correctional 
Association Conference
October 2024Future of the O 'ahu Commun ity Correctional Cent er H
awai 'i Department of 
Corrections and Rehabilitation
The mission of the Hawai'i Department of Corrections and 
Rehabilitation (DCR) is to provide a secure correctional 
environment for comprehensive rehabilitative, holistic, and 
wraparound re-entry services, including culturally based 
approaches, to persons sentenced to custody and care with 
professionalism, integrity, respect, and fairness. DCR’s goal is 
to reduce recidivism and enhance the safety and security of 
Hawai'i’s communities.
DCR carries out orders from the state courts to confine 
individuals in custody for a set period of time utilizing jails
and prisons located within Hawai'i, at the Federal Detention 
Center in Honolulu, and in private contracted facilities on the 
continent. Jails, known in Hawai'i as Community 
Correctional Centers (CCCs), are located on the islands of 
Kauai, Maui, Hawai'i, and O'ahu and house pre-trial 
detainees, misdemeanor offenders, and others with a 
sentence of one year or less. CCCs also provide a pre-
release transition function for prison inmates who have less 
than a year until their scheduled release. While some 
individuals in custody will remain confined for life, over 95 
percent will serve their sentences and be released to the 
community.
DCR envisions a future when all its facilities provide safe, 
secure, healthy, and humane environments for those in
custody and staff. A future which is based on better under-
standing the differing needs of offender populations, using 
therapeutic rather than punitive management techniques, 
ensuring racial equity, and by promoting positive change so 
that fewer individuals are incarcerated in Hawai'i. However, 
aged and obsolete jails have undermined DCR’s ability to 
deliver such a vision so improving some facilities and 
replacing others are high priorities. Chief among those 
priorities is development of a new O'ahu jail on state-owned 
lands comprising the Animal Quarantine Station in 'Aiea. 
Assisting DCR with O'ahu jail planning and development is 
the Department of Accounting and General Services (DAGS) 
along with experts and advisors that together with DCR and 
DAGS, comprise the "New O'ahu Jail Project Team."
The new O'ahu Community Correctional Center project has 
been referred to as either “OCCC” or by its full name. The 
project is also being referred to as the “New O'ahu Jail” or 
the “New O'ahu Jail Project” for the sake of clarity as well as 
to better position the project while efforts are currently under-
way and anticipated in the months ahead.
O'ah u Jail team members attend ACA Conference at Music City Convention 
Center in NashvilleNew O'ahu Jail team at the DCR booth at ACA Conference
L
ibbie L. Miller, Ph.D., Manager of the Data Col-
lection and Analytical Support Unit Research Unit 
for the Virginia Department of Corrections was 
the winner of the gift box of authentic local 
Hawaiian snacks from the company Mana Up 
that the Project Team raffled off during the 
conference. Congratulations Libbie!
New O 'ahu Jail Team Visits Davidson County Criminal Justice Center
While attending the ACA conference, representatives from DCR, 
DAGS, AHL, Pineapple Tweed, and HOK, (the New O'ahu Jail 
Team) received a guided tour of Davidson County’s new Criminal 
Justice Center in Nashville, Tennessee. The Center is the first stop for 
every arrestee in Davidson County and incorporates leading-edge 
technology to ensure the safety and security of staff and adults in 
custody.
Deputy Chief of Corrections, Tim Dial, and Behavioral Care Center 
Director, Lucy Easley, welcomed the new O'ahu Jail Team and 
provided a personalized and in-depth tour of the Detention Center 
and the Behavioral Care Center. Both facilities were designed by 
new O'ahu Jail Team member HOK, Inc. and Moody Nolan, Inc. 
and represent a mission-driven approach to detention, diversion
and treatment. It is also an example of the type of modern, 
therapeutic and restorative facility being planned for O'ahu.
Opened in 2020, the LEED-silver-certified facility is located on the site of the previous criminal justice center in downtown Nashville. 
The 416,000-square-foot center houses the Sheriff’s Office in addition to 810 beds, 64 of which are part of a mental health wing. 
The Center's design combines security and treatment and includes a civic plaza and public garden that connects the building to the 
courthouse and City Hall and offers the public a new downtown gathering place.
New O'ah u Jail team tours Davidson County Justice Center
2 O'ah u Community Correctional Center
The visit included a tour of typical housing modules, intake, staff support spaces, medical, and even back-of-house spaces to 
understand how the buildings’ infrastructure was designed and constructed. The most impactful part of the tour was the Behavioral 
Care Center, a state-licensed adult supportive treatment facility providing trauma-informed care in a short-term residential setting as an 
alternative to jail. According to Lucy Easley, Director, the behavioral center was the vision of Sheriff Daron Hall, to create an option to 
divert offenders so as to treat their mental and medically-related issues, instead of automatically sending them to jail.
The Center contains a medical clinic designed to address today’s complex correctional needs with exam, procedure, observation and 
negative-pressure isolation rooms, as well as a fully equipped dialysis center and a dental operatory. Also included is a mental health 
facility, intake and processing facilities, administrative and visitation spaces, a commercial kitchen, commercial laundry, sally port, and 
a 200-space underground parking garage. Locating the mental health unit for individuals with serious and persistent mental illness
near the Center’s booking area helps staff evaluate individuals’ emotional and psychological needs at the initial stages of processing. 
The mental health facility has medical and program spaces for therapy and provides a pleasing environment for visits with family 
members and healthcare staff.
The tour served as an informative and inspirational model for the new O'ahu jail project. To learn more about the Davidson County 
Detention Center visit: https://sheriff.nashville.gov/downtown-detention-center/, and the Behavioral Care Center visit: 
(https://sheriff.nashville.gov/behavioral-care-center-bcc/).
I
nterior and exterior images courtesy of Bell Constructors and HOK, Inc.
O'ahu Community Correctional Center 3
Industry Networking Event Held at ACA
During the ACA conference AHL, HOK, and WSP hosted an Industry Networking Event where approximately 60 attendees representing 
a cross-section of the corrections industry met with team members and discussed plans for the new facility with DCR and DAGS leadership.
4 O'ahu Community Correctional Center
New O 'ahu Jail - Current Timeline
During the initial stages of planning, the O'ahu jail team established preliminary timelines for project implementation based on Master 
Plan-level assumptions and expectations about funding. As the project advances through additional stages of program verification, 
design, financing, and delivery, new, more refined schedules will be prepared that address the full scope of O 'ahu jail development.
The current stage involves verifying the Value for Money analysis initially prepared in 2019. It also includes working with state officials 
on project delivery methods and financial or other funding resources that may be available to supplement the developer’s investment as 
part of a Public-Private Partnership (P3) arrangement. The current stage also continues DCR's commitment to robust public outreach and 
community engagement along with the transparency and inclusiveness it represents
While much has been accomplished, there is still much more to do to bring the new O'ahu jail project to fruition. In the next year, the 
Request for Proposal (RFP) process is expected to begin with issuance of a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) during the 3rd quarter of 
2025, issuance of the RFP during the first quarter of 2026, progressing through to project award later in 2026.“
More Frequently Asked Questions”
Since planning for a new O'ahu jail began, DCR has endeavored to anticipate questions and concerns of the public, elected and 
appointed officials, stakeholder groups, and others involving efforts to replace the aged and obsolete OCCC facility in Kalihi. This 
“More Frequently Asked Questions” builds upon the many Questions and Answers already published by DCR and addresses 
questions that have arisen recently.
• What are the goals for the new O 'ahu jail? Hawai' i’s goal is to transform its unified correctional system into a rehabilitative, 
restorative, and reentry-focused system that reduces recidivism and promotes safer communities. DCR is also striving to keep those in
custody connected to their individual cultural values, especially for Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders who are 
disproportionately represented within Hawai'i’s jail population. This is considered critical in helping them successfully reintegrate into 
Hawai'i’s communities and to break the cycle of recidivism.
• Is there anything distinctive about this new jail? The new jail will incorporate current best practices and evidence-based 
opportunities for self-improvement such as education, vocational skills training, faith- and culture-based activities, a library, treatment
for substance abuse, counseling, mental health therapy, and re-entry with community linkages for housing, employment, social 
services, health care, and transportation. DCR is also seeking to create a healing facility that is grounded in the values of our island 
culture.
O'ahu Community Correctional Center 5
2025 2027 2029 2031•Has the site received all the approvals necessary to move forward? The new jail will be developed on state-owned land at the  
Animal Quarantine Station in 'Aiea based on community input and after careful consideration of other locations, including  
redevelopment of the current jail site in Kalihi. A majority of the planning and land entitlement issues have already been addressed.
•Is the community onboard? The 'Aiea community , state representatives, government officials, and supporting infrastructure agencies  
have all been part of a transparent, inclusive, and open communication and dialogue process, which will continue through to project  
completion. Everyone is in agreement on the importance of taking care of the jail population to ensure successful reintegration into our  
communities.
•What is the current cost estimate for construction and when was the estimate done? $937 million as of 2023. It is estimated that  
the cost will also escalate by $3.5 million per month between 2023 to 2027.
•What is the project delivery method? If not decided, which ones are you considering? The new O'ahu Jail team is looking at  
variations of the Design-Build-Finance-Maintain (DBFM) model where the selected development team will have responsibility for design,  
construction, financing, and maintaining the new facility .
•Does the project have both administrative and legislative support? The Hawai'i Legislature and Governor’ s office has been supporting    
  development of a new O'ahu jail by appropriating funds beginning in 2014 (Act 122, Session Laws of Hawai'i
  (SLH) 2014). Those funds allowed for completion of critical planning and due diligence and was followed by an additional  
  appropriation for the subsequent phase of due diligence (Act 124, SLH 2016). Resources from the Governor's discretionary funds in 
  2023 are helping to complete design while allowing to complete the procurement process (Act 230, SLH 2024). DCR is committed to 
  working with the administration and the legislature during the 2025 legislative session to ensure that funds continue to be appropriated  
  to bring the project to fruition.
•Given priorities such as Maui fire recovery , is there room for a new jail at this time? Recovery from the Maui fire is important; 
however , full recovery will occur over several decades. In the meantime, work to address the overall needs of the state must continue.  
There has been no change in the commitment to replace the current overcrowded and drastically outdated jail with a new modern,  
safe, secure and humane facility that provides rehabilitation, counseling, education and job training opportunities.
•Will there be a need for additional funding and where would that come from? T o alleviate placing the full burden of initial funding  
on the state, the new O'ahu jail is being approached as a public-private project (P3), a long-term contract between the state and  
private entities to provide alternative sources of financing to supplement the state’ s first-cost funding commitment.
•Is it the state’ s and DCR’ s goal to build a jail that ties in the local culture? If so, how is that being accomplished? DCR is  
incorporating local and cultural considerations, specifically 'Aina (land), 'Ohana (family) and genealogy , around the expression and  
architecture of the planned facility . The goal is to deliver a new jail that incorporates leading-edge technology that provides for the  
safety and security of staff and adults in custody while embodying the values of Hawai'i and the local community .
•Are there climate change implications for building at the Animal Quarantine Station site? DCR is committed to addressing climate  
change and resiliency issues during project planning. One of the benefits to the Animal Quarantine Station site is that it is elevated  
above the tsunami zone with no anticipated sea level rise potential. The project will also incorporate the Governor's Net Zero goals, as  
well as sustainability features.
•Were there cultural considerations in selecting the Animal Quarantine Station as the location of the new jail? The site selection 
process took cultural impacts into conside ration along with many other key factors. Subs equent to iden tification of th is as the chosen 
site, archaeological,historic, and cultural surveys and studies of the selected site were conducted to State Historic Preservation Division’ s 
satisfaction.
•Will OCCC’ s existing site in Kalihi be included as part of the project? No.
•Will the pre-release (reentry) center be included in the RFP? Y es
•What happens if the project does not move forward? Is there a Plan B? At this time, the only alternative is the “do nothing”  
approach, which will have serious and long-lasting ill effects. The exponentially increased cost of deferred maintenance and upgrades;  
further decline in workforce retention and hiring; and increasingly negative humanitarian impact on occupants, staff and community are  
just a few of the dire effects of doing nothing.
6 O'ahu Community Correctional Center
Jails and Prisons are not the same !
While the terms “jail” and “prison” are often used interchangeably, they 
actually refer to two very different types of facilities that serve different 
purposes and function in different ways. When someone is accused of
a crime and arrested, JAIL is usually the first stop in the criminal justice 
system, serving as the booking and holding location. JAILS provide the 
secure environment needed for the temporary detention of individuals 
accused of a crime but have not completed the trial process. Persons
may also remain in JAIL if they could not meet conditions for bail or may 
not have qualified for bail. While some individuals remain in jail for a 
short while, minutes or hours, before being released, others may be held 
longer before they are released or transferred to another facility.
JAILS are also used to house individuals who have been convicted of a 
low-level crime and received a short sentence (typically less than one 
year). Individuals convicted of a serious crime and received an 
extended sentence (more than one year) are incarcerated in a prison. 
Think “short-term” and “long-term” with JAIL applying to short-term 
misdemeanor convictions and prison applying to long-term felony 
convictions.
In Hawai'i, the jail population is under the jurisdiction of the courts and 
individuals in jail can only be released, placed in outside programs, or 
assigned to other alternatives to incarceration by the courts. In contrast,
a prison facility houses inmates that have been convicted and classified. 
JAILS may oversee work release programs and some offer services 
designed to help the individuals change their behavior so they stand a 
better chance of avoiding a return stay. The difference between a jail 
and a prison may seem relatively minor on the surface, but there is a 
significant impact on the types of services that must be provided and
how they are operated.
Length of Stay:  Jails are used primarily for 
short-term detention.
Jurisdiction:  Jails are typically operated by local  
law enforcement agencies.
Type of Offense:  Jails are commonly used to hold 
individuals who have been arrested and are awaiting 
trial or have been sentenced for minor crimes.
Programs and Services:  Jails offer some programs 
and services aimed at helping individuals successfully re-enter society upon release.We
 Want to 
Hear From You
DCR continually seeks inp ut from community 
leaders and members about plans for t he 
new O'ahu jail and in response Project 
Team representatives attend meeting s of the 
'Aiea Neighborhoo d Board #20 , the 'Aiea 
Community Association , and the Hawai'i 
Correctional Systems Oversigh t Commission 
as well as engaging with state and local of-
ficials, the media, and others. In addition to 
reporting progress and a ccomplishment s in 
advanci ng plans f or the new O'ahu j ail, 
these forums are opportunities for DCR t o 
seek input, advice and guidance from offi-
cials, stakeholders and the p ublic. Contact 
the City a nd County of Honolulu, Neighbor-
hood Commission O ffice for information 
about how to p articipate at an u pcoming 
'Aiea Neighborhood Boar d meeting ( Tel: 
808-768-3710/email: nco@honolulu.gov); 
do the same for information a bout upcoming 
meetings of the ' Aiea C ommunity Association 
and ho w to participate
(http://www.aieacommunit y.org).
In add ition to di stributing n ewsletters t o over 
1,500 elected and appointed officials, 
government agencies , media out lets, 
volunteer gr oups, and members o f the 
public amo ng others, DCR maintains t he 
new O'ahu jail website providing access to 
project-relate d materials, document s outreach 
efforts, and facilitates the public ’s 
ability to offer ideas and suggestions or ask 
questions: NewOahuJail.hawaii.gov.  
Interested parties can also request to receive 
(via email) future announcements and 
notifications by submitting your contact 
information (name, affiliation if any , and 
email address) to: robert.nardi@wsp.com.
O'ahu Community Correctional Center 7
DCR distributes  newsletters  to more than 1,500  elected  and appointed  officials, government  agencies,  media  outlets,  
volunteer grou ps, and members of the public. Fo r the latest information  about the new O'ahu  Jail project, including  project-
related materials and FAQs, go to: NewOahuJail.hawaii.gov . To receive  (via email)  future announcements , newsletter s, and 
other notifications, please submit your contact information (name, affiliation if any, and email address) to: 
robert.nardi@wsp.com.Interested in Learning more ?R
osemarie Bernardo, Public Information Officer 
Hawai 'i Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation
Tel: 808-587-1358
Email: Rosemarie.Bernardo@hawaii.govRobert J. Nardi, Senior Vice President
WSP USA, Inc.
Tel: 973-407-1681
Email: robert.nardi@wsp.comUpcoming Activities
The following activities are anticipated in the months ahead.
October 2024Constructio n continues at Hawai 'i CCC  and Maui CCC.
Public outreach  and engagemen t continues  with attendance  at 'Aiea Neighborho od Board, 'Aiea Community  
Association, and Hawai 'i Correctional  Systems Oversight  Commission meetings.
November 2024Construction continues at Maui CCC.
Public outreach and engagement continues with attendance at 'Aiea Neighborhood Board , 'Aiea Community 
Association and Hawai 'i Correctional Systems Oversight Commission meetings.
Department of Agriculture prepares request for funds to construct the new Animal Quarantine Station.
December 2024Construction continues at Maui CCC.
Public outreach and engagement continues with attendance at 'Aiea Neighborhood Board, 'Aiea Community 
Association and Hawai 'i Correctional Systems Oversight Commission meetings.Industry members meet at ACA Exhibition Hall

--- Text from PDF (http://newoahujail.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Hawaii-OCCC-Newsletter-Vol.-53-June-2024.pdf) ---
Jails and Prisons Are Not the Same
When it comes to the criminal justice system in the United States, the terms jail and prison 
are often used interchangeably. However, they actually refer to two very different types of facilities where individuals are held during trial or after being convicted of a crime. Jails and prisons serve different purposes and function in different ways and depending on the type of crime one is convicted of and their sentence, that person could be incarcerated in a jail or prison.
When someone is accused of a crime and arrested, jail is usually the first stop in the criminal 
justice system. Jails serve as the booking and holding location for anyone who is placed under arrest. Some individuals remain in jail for a short while, minutes or hours, before being released. Others may be held longer before they are released or they may be transferred to another facility.
Jails provide the secure environment needed for the temporary detention of individuals 
accused of a crime but have not completed the trial process. Persons may also remain in jail if, according to the courts, they could not meet conditions for bail or may not have qualified for bail due to their likelihood to flee if released. Jails are also used to house individuals who have been convicted of a crime and received a short sentence of incarceration (typically less than one year) for low-level crimes such as misdemeanors. Jails are also typically operated by local law enforcement agencies (vs. state and federal agencies).
In addition to holding individuals, jails often oversee work release programs and some offer 
services such as substance abuse treatment, anger management and mental health services, and educational courses. The programs are designed to help the individuals change their behavior so they stand a better chance of avoiding a return stay.
Prisons, on the other hand, are facilities that are exclusively populated by individuals who 
have been convicted of a serious crime such as felonies and are serving an extended sentence – typically more than a year. At the most basic level, a prison’s function is to segregate from society individuals who have been convicted of serious crimes. Vol. 53 - What Purpose Do Jails Serve and How are They 
Different from Prisons?
June 2024Future of the Oahu Community Correctional Center 
Hawaii Department 
of Corrections and Rehabilitation
The Hawaii Department of Corrections and 
Rehabilitation (DCR) carries out orders from the state courts to confine individuals for a set period of time utilizing jails and prisons located within Hawaii, at the Federal Detention Center in Honolulu, and in a private contracted facility on the mainland. Jails, known in Hawaii as Community Correctional Centers (CCCs), are located on the islands of Kauai, Maui, Hawaii and Oahu and house pre-trial detainees, misdemeanant offenders, and others with a sentence of one year or less. CCCs also provide a pre-release transition function for prison inmates who reach less than a year until their scheduled release. While some offenders will remain confined for life, over 95 percent will serve their sentences and be released to the community. 
DCR envisions a future when all its facilities 
provide safe, secure, healthy, and humane environments for those in custody. A future based on better understanding the differing needs of offender populations, using therapeutic rather than punitive management techniques, ensuring racial equity, and by promoting positive change so that fewer individuals are incarcerated in Hawaii. However, aged and obsolete CCCs have undermined DCR’s ability to deliver such a vision and improving some facilities and replacing others are high priorities. Chief among those priorities is development of a new Oahu CCC (OCCC) at the Animal Quarantine Station (AQS) in Aiea. Assisting DCR with planning and development of a new OCCC is the Department of Accounting and General Services (DAGS) and a team of experts and advisors (together the “OCCC Team”).
Oahu Community Correctional Center (“Jail”)  
(Credit Honolulu Star Advertiser)The fundamental difference between jail and prison is the length of 
time an individual is incarcerated. Think “short-term” and “long-term” with short-term applying to misdemeanor convictions while long-term applies to felony convictions.
Upon arrival at prison, individuals are classified according criteria 
involving their criminal backgrounds, nature of offenses, length of sentence, propensity for violence, and other factors to ensure they are housed with the appropriate populations. Classification systems have proven effective to separate violent offenders from the rest of the jail population, keep the population in better balance, and make better use of available resources, while confining individuals in the appropriately secure environment.
By this time, individuals that have been diagnosed with a disorder 
may have begun a treatment program. Because the sentences are typically for longer term, a prison’s function and operation is more focused on rehabilitation, offering various programs and services aimed at helping individuals develop the skills and knowledge they need to successfully re-enter society upon their release. Programs offered may include training in a trade and education programs for helping individuals to acquire their GED or secondary degrees. There are also programs that utilize inmate skills and labor and with more outdoor recreation accommodations. Accordingly, many prisons operate on a ‘centralized services’ model where inmates move within the facility to a dining area, infirmary or classrooms. Unlike jails, prisons are commonly operated by state or federal government agencies or in some cases, private contractors. 
Because jails are largely used for short-term stays, they are 
designed and constructed to house more transient populations. Conversely, prisons are used for long-term incarceration and so they are designed and constructed for the living needs of their populations. For individuals facing longer sentences, many prefer the prison environment given the greater availability of treatment, programs, and services. Prisons are also typically able to house larger populations and are designed and constructed differently from jails due to more extensive security measures.
In either facility, the individual in custody will have their basic rights 
respected. These include the right to visitation, to be treated humanely and free from sexual crimes or harassment, access to the court system, to medical care, and to not suffer racial discrimination. Although their rights are abridged compared to other citizens given their status as inmates, they also retain rights to free speech, possession of property, and other basic human rights.Jails and Prisons Serve Very Different 
Purposes, Functions and Populations 
The difference between a jail and a prison may seem relatively 
minor on the surface, but there is a significant impact on the types of services that must be provided and how they are operated. Because much of the population in jail has not been convicted of an offense, they are not classified in the same way that they would be in a prison. For example, there may be an individual who is incarcerated on a relatively minor charge located in the same unit with another detainee accused of a serious crime. 
These situations create challenges for the jail staff to maintain the 
safety and security for all occupants. It is also important that pre-trial detainees are kept separate from sentenced inmates as well. For these reasons, a jail is usually operated on a ‘distributed services’ model where individuals remain in their housing units and meals, treatment programs, counseling, and even minor medical treatments are delivered to them.
Another challenge for the operation of a jail is the unknown. 
Individuals may have a chemical dependency or suffer from an as yet undiagnosed mental health issue. In both cases, the individual may not be receiving treatment and it is the responsibility of the jail staff to provide a diagnosis and recommend the appropriate treatment program.
Length of Stay
Jails are short-term facilities used for temporary 
detention, while prisons are long-term facilities used for extended incarceration.
Jurisdiction
Jails are typically operated by local law enforcement agencies, while prisons are operated by state or federal agencies.
Type of Offense
Jails are used to hold individuals who have been arrested for minor crimes, while prisons are used to house individuals who have been convicted of serious crimes.
Level of Security
Prisons are generally more secure than jails, with higher staf/f_ing levels and more extensive security measures.
Programs and Services
Jails offer some programs and services, but prisons offer more programs and services aimed at helping inmates develop the skills and knowledge they need to successfully re-enter society after their release.
2
Oahu Community Correctional Center(9 It’s also important to know that the jail population in Hawaii is 
under the jurisdiction of the courts and individuals in jail can only be released, placed in outside programs, or assigned to other alternatives to incarceration by the courts. In contrast, a prison facility houses inmates that have been convicted and classified. Those who have been convicted of state offenses are usually sent to a state prison while those convicted of violating federal laws are typically sent to a federal prison located on the mainland. 
Provided below is a representation of the workings of the 
criminal justice system in Hawaii. Starting with arrest by the Honolulu Police Department, then arraignment/indictment and trial, to conviction or acquittal; those acquitted are then released.  For those convicted at trial, sentences may be served in either jail (OCCC or Federal Detention Center) or one of Hawaii’s minimum, medium, or high-security prisons, and upon completion to their release.
Halawa Correctional Facility (“Prison”)  
(Credit: Honolulu Star Advertiser)
Chain of Custody Flow Chart
Arrested
by HPDArraigned
/IndictedJail
(OCCC)TrialFelon
Probation or
Misdemeanor
< 1 Year
Felon
> 1 YearMinimum
Security
Prison
(WCF / KCF)
Medium
Security
Prison
(Arizona)Prison
(Halawa)Jail
(OCCC)
Pre-Release
(LWFC/
OCCC)Jail
(FDC)
Released on Bail
AcquittedConvictedConvicted
ReleasedReleasedOahu Community Correctional Center
Halawa Correctional Facility
3
Oahu Community Correctional CenterModern Jail Design 
Advances in technology, design, and philosophy have contributed to a change in how jails are designed and constructed. Technological 
innovation and advancement have allowed for more secure and efficient management of the offender population. Modern jail facilities’ use state-of-the-art security and monitoring systems that eliminate the need for guard towers, perimeter security fencing, and other external security measures while improving the ability to continuously monitor the facility and inmate population. These advancements are not only more aesthetically pleasing but are also more effective from an operational and cost standpoint. 
The configuration, design, and layout of modern jail facilities allow corrections staff to manage the population more securely, treat them 
more humanely, and prepare them more effectively for transition back into society. The facilities are also designed to integrate with the host community and often look more like a medical center or office building than the historic jails that were once common in the U.S. A typical example of how a modern jail can be integrated seamlessly into its surroundings is the Federal Detention Center, built in 2000 and located at Daniel K. Inouye International Airport in Honolulu. The new OCCC will be designed to look, feel, and function very differently from the current OCCC in order to improve the justice system in the state.
We Want to Hear From You
DCR continually seeks input from community leaders and members about plans for the new OCCC and in response OCCC team 
representatives regularly attend of the Aiea Neighborhood Board #20, the Aiea Community Association, and the Hawaii Correctional Systems Oversight Commission (HCSOC) in addition to engaging with state and local officials, the media, and others. In addition reporting on progress and accomplishments in advancing plans for the new OCCC, these forums are opportunities for DCR to seek input, advice and guidance from officials, stakeholders and the public. Contact the City and County of Honolulu, Neighborhood Commission Office for information about how to participate at an upcoming Aiea Neighborhood Board meeting (Tel: 808-768-3710/email: 
nco@honolulu.gov ); 
do the same for information about upcoming meeting of the Aiea Community Association and how to participate  
(http://www.aieacommunity.org ).
In addition to distributing OCCC Newsletters to over 1,500 elected and appointed officials, government agencies, media outlets, volunteer groups, and members of the public among others, DCR maintains the OCCC  Future Plans website dedicated to planning the new OCCC. This website provides access to project-related materials, documents outreach efforts, and facilitates the public’s ability to offer ideas and suggestions or ask questions: 
https://dcr.hawaii.gov . Interested parties can also request to receive (via email) future announcements and 
notifications by submitting your contact information (name, affiliation if any, and email address) to: robert.nardi@wsp.com.Conceptual Rendering of New OCCC (Rendering by Integrus)The new OCCC project, as well as several other large upcoming projects in Hawaii, will require consideration of various funding 
sources and methods available to determine the best financing alternative. This workshop will provide a platform to learn about and discuss some of the available options. While the workshop has no direct connection to the OCCC project, it may be of interest to those of you who are interested in the project and following this newsletter. 
Building a Better Hawaii:
Leverage Alternative Project Delivery 
Methods for Smarter Infrastructure 
Development 
Networking Lunch & Workshop
Speakers
Kalbert Young
VP for Budget & 
Finance / CFO,
University of HawaiiChris Kinimaka
Special Project 
Manager, Department 
of Accounting & 
General Services 
(DAGS), State of 
HawaiiLester Kao
Director of 
Infrastructure 
Advisory, Project 
Finance & Consulting, 
CohnReznickHolley Morgan
Senior Advisor - P3 / 
Real Estate Advisory, 
WT PartnershipCraig Covil
P3 and Alternative 
Project Delivery 
Advisor, C2 ConsultingBrandon Tessier
Business Development 
Director (AMER), 
Ansarada Procure
Bring order to your major infrastructure projects in Hawaii and leverage the power of Alternative Delivery 
Methods (ADMs).
Join us for a FREE workshop to gain valuable insights from a distinguished panel of experts representing 
agencies, advisors, developers, financiers, and technology leaders specializing in ADM.
This workshop will equip you with the knowledge to:
- Navigate the intricacies of current alternative delivery legislation in Hawaii
- Understand the dynamics of developers and local unionized labor (Building & Trades 1030)- Demystify financial agreements associated with ADMs- Ensure compliance with procurement laws- Explore the differences, benefits, and challenges of P3s and other ADM options- Learn how to incorporate the Inflation Reduction Act into your P3 strategy
This workshop is ideal for:
- Government officials
- Project managers- Infrastructure advisors- Developers- Financiers- Legal professionals- Anyone interested in optimizing Hawaii’s infrastructure projects
Space is limited! Register to secure your spot.Don’t miss this opportunity to enhance your knowledge and build valuable connections in Hawaii’s infrastructure sector.
Register at: 
Building a Better Hawaii: Leverage Alternative Project Delivery Methods for Smarter Infrastructure Development | June 28, 2024  
eventcreate.comLocation
Conference Center,Pacific Guardian Center,Makai Tower,733 Bishop Street, Honolulu
Date & Time
Friday, June 28, 202412:00 PM - 4:00 PM
5
Oahu Community Correctional CenterAdd your name to the OCCC email list to receive announcements, newsletters, and other project-related materials by sending your name, 
affiliation (if any), and email address to: robert.nardi@wsp.com.Join OCCC Email List
For additional information visit http://dcr.hawaii.gov/occc-future-plans or contact:Interested in Learning More? 
Rosemarie Bernardo, Public Information Officer      
Hawaii Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation 
Tel: 808.587.1358Email: Rosemarie.Bernardo@hawaii.govRobert J. Nardi, Senior Vice President
WSP USA, Inc.Tel: 973.407.1681Email: robert.nardi@wsp.comUpcoming Activities
The following activities are anticipated in the months ahead.
June 2024Construction continues at HCCC, MCCC, and WCCC.
Public outreach and engagement continues with attendance at Aiea Community Association and Hawaii 
Correctional Systems Oversight Commission meetings. 
July 2024Construction continues at HCCC, MCCC, and WCCC.
Public outreach and engagement continues with attendance at Aiea Neighborhood Board , Aiea Community 
Association and Hawaii Correctional Systems Oversight Commission meetings.
August 2024Industry outreach for OCCC Replacement Facility at ACA Conference (Nashville, TN).
Construction continues at HCCC, MCCC, and WCCC.Public outreach and engagement continues with attendance at Aiea Neighborhood Board, Aiea Community 
Association and Hawaii Correctional Systems Oversight Commission meetings.Kilauea volcano erupts on June 3, 2024 (Credit: YouTube)

--- Text from PDF (http://newoahujail.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Hawaii-OCCC_newsletter_Vol52.pdf) ---
Community Turns Out to Discuss New Oahu   
Com
munity Correctional Center
More than 60 people attended the Oahu Community Correctional Center (OCCC) 
Community Engagement Workshop held at the Aiea Elementary School on February 1, 
2024. The University of Hawaii Community Design Center (UHCDC) hosted the
workshop in partnership with the Hawaii Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation to 
envision rehabilitative models for a new OCCC facility and a more robust community-based 
continuum of care.
Community members participated in activities to share their thoughts on the planned 
relocation of the OCCC. The workshop represents DCR’s ongoing commitment to maintain
its active community outreach and engagement efforts to keep the public up to date.
During the meeting, DCR Director Tommy Johnson provided an update to attendees on the 
relocation project. A new correctional facility is sorely needed, Director Johnson said. “Parts
of OCCC are 110 years old.” DCR aims to have a Request for Proposal (RFP) posted for 
prospective bidders for the new OCCC in late 2025.
Area lawmakers, state and community leaders, stakeholders and residents attended the 
workshop. Attendees divided into groups where members of the UHCDC team facilitated 
activities to gather feedback from community members through interactive, co-design
activities and group discussions related to the new jail and broader justice system.
At the community meeting, Cathi Ho Schar, director of the University of Hawaii Community 
Design Center, said, “We appreciate your wisdom, your understanding and your patience
as we learn with and from all of you.” “We take this privilege and responsibility very 
seriously,”  Schar said.
The DCR contracted UHCDC in 2022 to lead an independent engagement, research and 
proof-of-concept study on the OCCC relocation project, to inform the work of future 
professional planning and design teams. UHCDC is not responsible for developing the RFP 
for the new jail.Vol. 52 - Community Outreach Engages Broad Audiences
April 2024Future of the Oahu Community Correctional Center 
H
awaii Depar
tment
of Corrections and 
Rehabilitation
The Hawaii Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation (DCR) carries out orders from 
the state courts to confine individuals for a
set period of time utilizing jails and prisons 
located within Hawaii, at the Federal 
Detention Center in Honolulu, and in private 
contracted  facilities on the mainland. Jails, 
known in Hawaii as Community
Correctional Centers (CCCs), are located
on the islands of Kauai, Maui, Hawaii and 
Oahu and house pre-trial detainees, 
misdemeanant offenders, and others with a 
sentence of one year or less. CCCs also 
provide a pre-release transition function for 
prison inmates who reach less than a year 
until their scheduled release. While some 
offenders will remain confined for life, over  
95 percent will serve their sentences and be 
released to the community.
DCR envisions a future when all its facilities 
provide safe, secure, healthy, and humane 
environments for offenders and staff. A future
based on better understanding the differing 
needs of offender populations, using 
therapeutic rather than punitive management 
techniques, ensuring racial equity, and by 
promoting positive change so that fewer 
individuals are incarcerated in Hawaii. 
However, aged and obsolete CCCs have 
undermined DCR’s ability to deliver such a 
vision and improving some facilities and 
replacing others are high priorities. Chief 
among those priorities is development of a 
new Oahu CCC (OCCC) at  the Animal 
Quarantine Station (AQS) in Aiea. Assisting 
DCR with OCCC planning and
development is the Department of
Accounting and General Services (DAGS) 
and a team of experts and advisors (the 
“OCCC  Team”).Participants at the Community Engagement Workshop (February 1, 2024).  
Photo credit: UHCDCBreaking Cycles Symposium Updates Community on Plans to Improve 
Hawaii’s Cor
rectional System
Approximately 70 people attended the “Breaking Cycles Symposium Update: Re-envisioning a Health, Housing, and Corrections Continuum” 
held at the state Capitol auditorium on March 6, 2024. State and community leaders discussed the ongoing need for a unified approach to a  
better, holistic, program-oriented correctional system.  Attendees included stakeholders, lawmakers and community groups and members who 
addressed the call to break the cycles of substance abuse, mental health needs, homelessness and generational incarceration in Hawaii.
Guest speakers included State Homeless Coordinator John Mizuno; Nikos Leverenz of the Hawaii Health and Harm Reduction Center; Dr. 
Chad Koyanagi of the Department of Health; District Court Judge Melanie May of the First Circuit (Oahu); Kainoa Castro of the Department of 
Health; Dr. Judy Mohr Peterson of the Department of Human Services and Iopa Maunakea of Men of Pa‘a (Positive Action Alliance).
DCR Director Tommy Johnson thanked everyone for their will to change the 
system and the paths of the lives of inmates. “We want to change the 
trajectory of these people’s lives. We want to have better and safer 
communities. We can’t do it alone,”  Johnson said. “It’s going to take us 
working together as a community of policy makers, to different community 
organizations, to the legislative branch of government, and to the judicial 
branch of government.”
One of the efforts that the DCR is working on is the implementation of more 
rehabilitation services and programs. Currently, the DCR is in discussions 
with the Men of Pa‘a for a mentoring program for inmates at the Kulani 
Correctional Facility. At the symposium, Iopa Maunakea said, it is “our 
kuleana” to take care of each other.
DCR is also finalizing an agreement with the University of Hawaii to provide  
ho‘oponopono services. Such services and programs, Johnson said, would 
help reduce the 57% recidivism rate in Hawaii. “These types of culturally 
based programs are critically important to our paradigm shift to a more 
humane, culturally sensitive and effective rehabilitative model.” The March
6th symposium — part of a project funded by the DCR and led by UHCDC 
— was an update to the first Breaking Cycles Symposium held in October  
2023.
At the symposium, Judge Melanie May and Kainoa Castro shared results of 
the post-booking jail diversion program in District Court of the First Circuit. 
The program’s goal is to identify non-violent defendants with low-level 
pending misdemeanor and petty misdemeanor charges, keep them out of 
jails and long stays at the Hawaii State Hospital and find another way to  
focus on treatment rather than incarceration.
The program is voluntary and requires collaboration with both the public defender’s office and prosecutor’s office. Upon graduation, criminal  
charges against the defendant are dismissed. Judge May noted the Judiciary has supported jail diversion for more than 17 years. “The big 
difference now is with the buy-in and collaboration from other stakeholders, we have been able to achieve results that we have not previously 
seen,”  she said.
During the event, Dr. Michael Champion, Senior Advisor for Mental Health and the Justice System for Governor Josh Green, M.D., told 
attendees that breaking cycles is a foundational priority for the Governor who has assembled a dedicated team spanning across departments 
and disciplines that are united in “our commitment to this effort.” “People who experience behavioral challenges face a very high prevalence of 
powerlessness, trauma, and justice involvement. Our efforts to break the cycles requires a sustained commitment to redesign our mental health 
and justice systems with a focus on ensuring improved access to services while also reducing disparities,” Dr. Champion said. The time for action
is now, he added.DCR Director Johnson addressing attendees. 
Photo credit:  
DCR
Symposium attendees. Photo credit: DCR
2
Oahu Community Correctional CenterOCCC  
Programming & Design Case Studies
Please join us on Zoom for presentations and discussions on alternative jail 
programs and facilities, followed by a roundtable discussion gathering stakeholders who will reflect on the diverse models and share their vision for a new facility to replace OCCC.
To RSVP or learn more
Scan this QR code or visitwww.breaking-cycles-symposium.orgEmail: uhcdc@hawaii.eduPhone: (808) 956-4704Friday, April 12th, 2024 | 9:00 - 10:30 AM
 Zoom Meeting LinkBreaking ycles Virtual Roundtable: 
Welcome 
Tommy Johnson, Director, Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation
Presentations 
James Krueger, Director of Design, HMC ArchitectsLucy Easley, Facility Director, Davidson's County Sheriff's Office Behavioral Care Center
Roundtable
Hayley Cheng, First Deputy Public Defender, Office of the Public DefenderDennis Dunn, Board Member, Hawai'i State Coalition Against Domestic ViolenceKeoki Dudoit, Director of Operations, Makana O Ke AkuaChristin Johnson, Oversight Coordinator, Hawaiʻi Correctional System Oversight CommissionLois Kim, Case Management Program Manager, Care Hawaiʻi Bob Merce, Chair, Correctional Reform Working Group Eugenie Naone, Director of Programs, Ke Ola MamoSteve Wood, Chair, Aiea Neighborhood Boardhttps://www.breaking-cycles-symposium.orgC We Want to Hear From You
DCR continu
ally seeks input from community leaders and members about plans for the new OCCC. In response, OCCC team
representatives attend meetings of the Aiea Neighborhood Board #20, the Aiea Community Association, and the Hawaii Correctional 
Systems Oversight Commission and engage with state and local officials, the media, and others. In addition to reporting progress and  
accomplishments in advancing plans for the new OCCC, these forums are opportunities for DCR to seek input, advice and guidance from 
officials, stakeholders and the public. Contact the City and County of Honolulu, Neighborhood Commission Office for information about  
how to participate at an upcoming Aiea Neighborhood Board meeting (Tel: 808-768-3710 / email: nco@honolulu.gov); do the same for 
information about upcoming meeting of the Aiea Community Association and how to participate
(http://www.aieacommunity.org).
In addition to distributing OCCC Newsletters to over 1,500 elected and appointed officials, government agencies, media outlets, volunteer  
groups, and members of the public, DCR maintains the OCCC Future Plans, a website dedicated to planning the new OCCC. This
website provides access to project-related materials, documents outreach efforts, and facilitates the public’s ability to offer ideas and 
suggestions or ask questions: https://dcr.hawaii.gov. Interested parties can also request to receive (via email) future announcements
and notifications by submitting your contact information (name, affiliation if any, and email address) to: robert.nardi@wsp.com.
Progress Continues at Constructing New Housing Unit at Hawaii CCC
With increasingly ag
ed and crowded in-state jail facilities, DCR is moving forward with efforts to improve and/or replace its corrections 
infrastructure. In addition to replacing OCCC and expanding the Women’s Community Correctional Center (WCCC), DCR is addressing 
the crowding that has long existed at the Hawaii Community Correctional
Center (HCCC) by constructing a new housing unit. The new unit is
representative of DCR’s overall program of improving its community
correctional centers. The soon-to-be-completed housing unit will improve living
conditions and be a substantial improvement over current conditions with
access to natural daylight, improved acoustics, thermal comfort, and
adequate space, all of which have been shown to enhance the feeling of
safety and lowering stress levels among offenders and staff with a positive
effect on overall institution safety and security.
Interior and exterior photos of new HCCC housing unit showing substantial progress.  
Photo Credit: Mike Janes, DLR Group, March 2024.
Oahu Community Correctional Center 4Renderings by CGL Companies
Photo Credit: Rider Levett Bucknall, April 2024Improvements Continue at Women’s CCC
Progress continues at constructing a new Administration Building, 
Visitation/Intake Building, and Housing Unit at the Women’s Community Correctional Center (WCCC). Progress includes interior finishes, furniture, landscaping, paving, among other elements. Once completed, women held at OCCC will be relocated to WCCC which will also perform intake functions for all women. Doing so will also make available an entire housing module at OCCC.
5 O
ahu Commun it y Correctional CenterAdd your name to the OCCC email list to receive announcements, newsletters, and other project-related materials by sending your name, 
affiliation (if any), and email address to: robert.nardi@wsp.com.Join OCCC Email List
For additional information visit http://dcr.hawaii.gov/occc-future-plans or contact:Interested in Learning More? 
Rosemarie Bernardo, Public Information Officer 
Hawaii Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation  
Tel: 808.587.1358Email: Rosemarie.Bernardo@hawaii.govRobert J. Nardi, Senior Vice President
WSP USA, Inc.Tel: 973.407.1681Email: robert.nardi@wsp.comUpcoming Activities
The following activities are anticipated in the months ahead.
April 2024Con
struction continues at HCCC, MCCC, and WCCC.
Public outreach and engag e
ment continues with attendance at Aiea Neighborhood Board, Aiea Community 
Association, and Hawaii Correctional Systems Oversight Commission meetings.
May 2024Construction continues at HCCC, MCCC, and WCCC.
Public outreach and engagement continues with attendance at Aiea Neighborhood Board , Aiea Community 
Association  and Hawaii Correctional Systems Oversight Commission meetings. 
2024 Session of Hawaii Legislature concludes.
June 2024Construction continues at HCCC, MCCC, and WCCC.Public outreach and engagement continues with attendance at Aiea Neighborhood Board, Aiea Community 
Association and Hawaii Correctional Systems Oversight Commission meetings.British navigator Captain James Cook arrived in Hawaii aboard the HMS Endeavour on April 26, 1778I 
' 
, . 
~,.. 'r i"" I 
.A""'1 
fl~ ••. 
--
