Source URL: https://nlk.doh.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Na Lima Kako'o Na Lima Kako'o Home Register Now Contact Us FAQs Member Login Username: Password: Forgot Username or Password? Not Registered? Register Now Welcome to Nā Lima Kāko'o Updated: 2/15/2024 Welcome to N ā Lima K ā ko'o, the online registration system for volunteer health care professionals for the state of Hawaii and Pacific Islands. This site allows you to register as a responder willing to provide services during a disaster or public health emergency. Registered volunteers will have opportunities to engage with the community collaboratively working towards our state’s preparedness. The registration system will collect basic information about you and your professional skills. If you have already completed the registration process or would like to return to an in-progress registration, please sign-in utilizing your "username" and "password". Volunteer health care professionals and non-healthcare professionals are often called upon to fulfill essential roles during state emergencies and man-made or natural disasters. During an event, these volunteer roles provide support and fill the gaps that are created from the increased need for services. Many of our volunteers support local Disaster Preparedness Fairs, First Aid Stations, Community outreach and education, vaccination clinics and much more. The application process includes a criminal background check. Please click on the Register Now button below to begin the registration process. Volunteer Training information: Training modules can be found via our HI-TRAIN platform. Your unit coordinator will communicate further instructions on training modules to be completed. An account should be created to access HI-MRC training plan . Please see links below. HI-TRAIN: Home - Hawaii TRAIN - an affiliate of the TRAIN Learning Network powered by the Public Health Foundation HI Statewide MRC Training Plan: https://www.train.org/hawaii/training_plan/5532 Home Contact Us FAQ Terms of Service Privacy Policy

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
