Source URL: https://outdoor.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
DLNR Activity Permits & Resources | Explore Outdoor Hawaiʻi Follow Follow Follow Follow Visit the DLNR Official Site for More Resources > Search for: Boating Camping Commercial Activities Filming Fishing Hiking Hunting Visit a State Park Boating Camping Commercial Activities Filming Fishing Hiking Hunting Visit a State Park Experience the Land and Natural Resources of Hawaiʻi How to Experience Hawaiʻi’s Great Outdoors The Hawaiian Islands are the most remote destination in the world, with pristine oceans, miles of beaches, a mix of urban landscape and wilderness, and a rich culture that guides how best to experience Hawaiʻi unique environment in a way that ensures it will be around for future generations to enjoy. Choose an activity to learn more about the licenses and permits required to explore Hawaiʻi. This website features some of DLNR’s most common permits and forms. Please visit a DLNR Division website for any permits or forms not found on this website. Visit a State Park 51 state parks with a range of environments and activities are waiting for you to visit. Reservations are required for certain parks. Learn More Make a Reservation for a State Park • Diamond Head State Park, Oʻahu • ʻĪao Valley State Monument, Maui • Waiʻānapanapa State Park, Maui • Hāʻena State Park, Kauaʻi Boating Camping Filming Fishing Hiking Hunting Commercial Activities From beach wedding photography and surfing lessons to commercial fishing and boating, Hawaiʻi is home to a large variety of commercial businesses and activities that benefit from our unique environment. Find the resources you need to conduct commercial activities that impact Hawaiʻi’s land, ocean, and wildlife. Learn More Miles of Beaches With 750 miles of combined coastline, Hawaiʻi has the 4th longest coastline in the United States. Acres of State Forest Reserve 55 state forest reserves across 4 islands account for 695,966 acres of land and include three types of forest: wet forest, tropical rain forest, and dry forest. Climate Zones Hawaiʻi boasts 10 of the world’s 15 climate zones, making it the only place on earth with so many concentrated in one area. Mālama Hawaiʻi As one of the world’s most remote locations, Hawaiʻi is home to unique plant and animal species and fragile ecosystems that can be found nowhere else. We ask everyone to share in the responsibility of being caretakers and keepers of this special place — to Mālama Hawaiʻi. Mālama in ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi (the Hawaiian language) is more than just “to take care”, but also to preserve, protect, save, maintain, and honor. We welcome you, along with all Hawaiʻi’s residents and visitors, to Mālama Hawaiʻi and its precious land and natural resources for generations to come. The State of Hawaiʻi Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR)’s mission is to enhance, protect, conserve and manage Hawaiʻi’s unique and limited natural, cultural and historic resources held in public trust for current and future generations of the people of Hawaiʻi nei, and its visitors, in partnership with others from the public and private sectors. Learn more about the work they do > The State of Hawaiʻi Department of Land and Natural Resources Division of Aquatic Resources (DAR) proudly protects Hawaiʻi’s aquatic resources and ecosystems. Learn more about the work they do > Copyright © 2024, Explore Outdoor Hawaiʻi. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
