Source URL: https://pais-pebt.dhs.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
PANDEMIC EBT Client Portal Browser Compatibility × The PANDEMIC EBT Application Portal is optimized for Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox. To have the best web browsing experience, we recommend using the latest web browser version. Pandemic Electronic Benefit Transfer (P-EBT) Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) for Parents/Guardians What is P-EBT? The Pandemic Electronic Benefit Transfer (P-EBT) program is food assistance approved by the U. S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, and authorized by the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (P.L. 116-127) as amended by the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2021 and Other Extensions Act (P.L. 116-159) and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (P.L. 116-260). Who is it for? Students who are either enrolled for free or reduced-price school meals at a school that participates in the National School Lunch Program (NSLP) OR… Students who are enrolled in a school that provides free meals to all students through the Community Eligibility Provision (CEP) or another provision. See the link below for CEP school listing: http://www.hawaiipublicschools.org/TeachingAndLearning/HealthAndNutrition/StudentHealthResources/Pages/CEP.aspx Important information from Hawaii Department of Human Services: There is no application for P-EBT benefits. Students that either either enrolled for free or reduced-price school meals at a school that participates in the National School Lunch Program (NSLP), or Students who are enrolled in a school that provides free meals to all students through the Community Eligibility Provision (CEP) or another provision, are automatically eligible and enrolled for P-EBT through verification provided by the DOE. Important Information from the Hawaiʻi Department of Education that will help families receive P-EBT benefits: If your child is in need and is NOT enrolled in the Free and Reduced-Price Lunch Program, (and you would like for them to receive P-EBT benefits) please enroll via EZMealApp.com. Note-Children under 6 years of age who are receiving SNAP benefits may also be eligible for P-EBT. The Department will provide further information on this population after the April issuance of P-EBT benefits for the school-aged children. How Does this Work? Eligible students will have their benefits issued to their own Hawaii P-EBT account that is accessible through, a Hawaii P-EBT card (white card with black lettering) or a Kokua EBT card. For students that had received P-EBT benefits for August and September of the current 2020-21 school year, benefits continuing from October 2020 through the balance of the school year will be issued their P-EBT benefits to their existing P-EBT account and can be redeemed with their existing Hawaii P-EBT card or Kokua EBT card. For students on SNAP that had received P-EBT benefits on their family’s SNAP Kokua EBT account and card, a Hawaii P-EBT card will be mailed so that you can access benefits continuing from October 2020 through the balance of the school year. For newly eligible students that have not received P-EBT for the 2020-21 school year, they will be mailed a Hawaiʻi P-EBT card. IMPORTANT NOTE: Families new to the program that are mailed a Hawaiʻi P-EBT card will receive a card in the name of each eligible student. The SNAP and Hawaiʻi P-EBT cards can also be used in the Da Bux program. IMPORTANT NOTE: If a replacement card is needed (Kokua EBT or Hawaiʻi P-EBT) please call the Fidelity Information Service (FIS) customer service at 1- 888-328-4292. How Much Will Students Receive? Students that had already received P-EBT benefits for the months of August and/or September are eligible to receive a retroactive payment for the increase to the daily meal rate that was authorized by President Biden in January 2021. Depending on the official start date of the school, the retroactive increase for the month of August can vary. The following is the retroactive payment amounts for the months of August and September 2020: August: $1 – $24 September: $25 For the months of October through the balance of the current 2020-21 school year, the amount an eligible student may be able to receive is dependent on the predominant learning model of the student’s school as reported by the Department of Education. Each month, a school will report the predominant learning model (100% in-person, blended or hybrid, or 100% distance learning). Depending on the learning model of the student’s school, a student will either not be eligible to receive P-EBT benefits, received half a month’s benefit amount, or receive a full month’s benefit amount. The monthly benefit amount per learning models are the following: 100% in-person learning = $0, not eligible for PEBT Blended or Hybrid learning = $72 100% distance learning = $143 When will benefits be issued? The Hawaiʻi P-EBT benefits will be loaded to the Hawaiʻi P-EBT accounts beginning April 20, 2021. This first issuance will cover the retroactive increase payments for August and September, and for the benefit months of October – December. Beginning April 27, 2021 payments for the benefit months of January – March will be loaded. Payments for the remainder of the 2020-21 school year will be issued monthly, and will follow this schedule: Benefit Month April 2021 May 2021 Benefit Availability May 17, 2021 June 15, 2021 Note – New Hawaii P-EBT cards will begin being mailed out starting April 1, 2021 directly from our mainland vendor, and will be shipped through USPS. Cards may require 3 weeks for delivery. Where can I check on my child’s P-EBT benefit status? Go to humanservices.hawaii.gov and click on to the P-EBT status banner. Where can I call if I have more questions (such as where can I report achange of address)? You can call the P-EBT call center at 1-888-975-PEBT(7328) , or email at hi.pebt@dhs.hawaii.gov Download PDF Close Loading... PANDEMIC EBT Status Lookup STATE OF HAWAII DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES BENEFIT, EMPLOYMENT AND SUPPORT SERVICES DIVISION PANDEMIC EBT STATUS LOOKUP FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Contact Us NEED HELP IN ANOTHER LANGUAGE? CHOOSE A LANGUAGE BELOW English 廣東話 Chuukese Français Deutsche ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 国语 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog Tongan Tiếng Việt Visayan Use and Maintenance of Personally Identifiable Information To conduct some transactions online it may be necessary for users to provide personally identifiable information to the government agency. Any personally identifiable information voluntarily provided by you will be used for the purpose of which the information was provided and may be shared with staff and other state agencies in order to process your request, respond to your e-mail, or otherwise ensure a proper response to your request. Each agency makes reasonable efforts to maintain accurate, complete, timely, and relevant personally identifiable information as necessary to assure fairness when using that information to make any determination regarding the individual. Your personally identifiable information will not be disclosed or used for purposes other than those specified, without your consent, except as authorized by law. Please note that the fact that information provided by you is personally identifiable does not mean that it will remain private in all circumstances. Personally identifiable information maintained by the government is a “government record” as defined in Chapter 92F, Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes, General definitions . Access, including public access, to government records is controlled primarily by Chapter 92F, Hawaiʻi Revised Statutes. In addition, there may be other laws that require public access to personally identifiable information. For example, personally identifiable information contained in certain documents submitted to the Documents Registration Branch of the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs is accessible to the public. Measures to guard against loss, misuse, alteration, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information have been instituted by eHawaii.gov. P-EBT Hawaii Form - Contact Us Required * × Requestor Name * Requestor Phone number Requestor Email Name of the Student (First Name, Last Name) Student Date of Birth Relation to Student Parent Guardian Other Please enter relation to student Name of the School Remove Student + Add Another Student Questions or Description of problem * Phrase your questions or describe your problem in short sentence (160 Characters or fewer). Details Provide additional details that may help us better understand your question or problem. Submit Cancel × Close

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
