Source URL: https://pais-benefits.dhs.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
PAIS SNAP/TANF Application Portal Browser Compatability × The PAIS SNAP/TANF Application Portal is optimized for Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox. To have the best web browsing experience, we recommend using the latest web browser version. Loading... Begin / Return to Application STATE OF HAWAII DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES BENEFIT, EMPLOYMENT AND SUPPORT SERVICES DIVISION Financial Assistance / SNAP Application APPLY NOW Start a new application for SNAP or financial assistance Do not use if you are renewing your benefits. RENEW MY BENEFITS Start an application for your annual or semi-annual review *Available 6:30am - 5:45pm HST Mon - Sat, except State holidays FINISH MY APPLICATION Finish an application you started UPLOAD DOCUMENTS Upload documents for a submitted application VIEW MY ISSUED BENEFITS Contact Us When you submit your application, you will receive a receipt with your application tracking number. This means we have received your application. Our staff are processing all applications as quickly as possible. With the large number of individuals and families now applying, we are experiencing delays. Please look out for a notice in the mail and call on your specified interview date. We care deeply about you and your family and are working hard to help. You must be a resident of the State of Hawai’i to be eligible for Financial Assistance (Money) and/or SNAP benefits. If any member of your household receives SNAP or Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) benefits, then all children in your household are eligible for free school meals if their school participates in the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) meal program. Please call the child's school if you have questions regarding the School Breakfast and Lunch Program. They will be able to provide you information when: You think your child should get free meals but does not receive them, You do not want your child to get free school meals, or You have questions about the USDA meal programs. All of your answers must be complete and honest. If you knowingly give false information or intentionally fail to report required information, you may incur substantial penalties, including fines, imprisonment, and removal from the program. Information about TANF and other programs available under the Department of Human Services can be found at the following website: https://humanservices.hawaii.gov/bessd/ NEED HELP IN ANOTHER LANGUAGE? CHOOSE A LANGUAGE BELOW English 廣東話 Chuukese Français Deutsche ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 国语 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog Tongan Tiếng Việt Visayan Contact Us × This form is intended for follow-up questions on your SNAP or Financial Assistance application or case information. Please fill in all required fields marked with a red asterisk ( * ). Note that incomplete or inaccurate entries may delay our ability to process your inquiry. Also, we receive a high volume of inquiries, so please allow us some time to respond. First Name * Last Name * Phone Number * This is the number we will use to contact you. Email Case Number If you have a case number, it can be found on the front, upper right hand corner of the notice you received in the mail. If you don't have one, you may leave this blank. Callback Time Preference No preference Between 8:00 AM - 12:00 PM (HST) Between 12:00 PM - 4:15 PM (HST) Your preferred timeframe for us to contact you during normal business hours. However, please note that we may not always be able to accommodate the requested time. Question or Issue * Please describe your question/issue and provide details that may help us better understand your situation. Cancel Submit × Close

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
