Source URL: https://planning.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Office of Planning and Sustainable Development Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaiʻi Office of Planning and Sustainable Development Search this site Search X icon RSS icon Facebook icon Home About OPSD About OPSD OPSD Administered Bodies Greenhouse Gas Sequestration Task Force Hawaiʻi Board on Geographic Names Hawaiʻi Interagency Council for Transit-Oriented Development (TOD Council) Marine and Coastal Zone Advocacy Council (MACZAC) Contact Us Programs State CZM Program Environmental Review Program GIS Program GIS Program Download GIS Data Maps Hawaiʻi Board on Geographic Names Enterprise Zone Locator LSB Class Locator SMA Locator State Land Use District (SLUD) Locator Renewable EnerGIS Land Use Division State Transit-Oriented Development Program Special Plans Branch Statewide Sustainability Program Regulatory Federal Consistency Land Use Division Special Management Area Permits Selected Plans Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) State Planning Act Increased Food Security and Food Self-Sufficiency Strategy Ocean Resources Management Plan Planner’s Toolbox Adapting to Climate Change Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund Coastal Hazards Cumulative & Secondary Impact (CSI): Stormwater Impact Assessment GIS Data, Maps, Tools, Apps Low Impact Development Rural Economic Development Rural Policy and Best Practices Project Technical Assistance Memorandum Sustainability Land Uses Around Airports Reports Contact Us State CZM Program Environmental Review Program Statewide GIS Program Land Use Division Special Plans Branch Statewide Sustainability Program State Transit-Oriented Development Program The State of Hawaii, Office of Planning and Sustainable Development, gathers, analyzes, and provides information to the Governor to assist in the overall analysis and formulation of state policies and strategies. The purpose of the Office is to (1) provide central direction and cohesion in the allocation of resources and effectuation of state activities and programs, and (2) effectively address current or emerging issues and opportunities. The Office works closely with local, state, and federal government agencies; the University of Hawaii; and various community stakeholders to achieve these objectives. The Office of Planning and Sustainable Development includes eight programs. The programs include the Coastal Zone Management Program , the Environmental Review Program , the GIS Program , the Land Use Commission , the Land Use Division, the Statewide Sustainability Program , the Special Plans Branch , and the Transit Oriented Development Program . The Office is guided by two statewide planning documents (1) the Hawaii State Planning Act, which is a broad policy document that sets the table for all activities, programs, and decisions made by local and state agencies; and (2) Engineering Hawaii’s Future, which outlines the Administration’s priorities. Current projects and initiatives are focused on implementing the Office’s mandates in relation to priorities that are laid out in Engineering Hawaii’s Future , including planning for the impacts of climate change ( Adapting to Climate Change ); ensuring the sustainable and economic use of our ocean and coastal resources through partnership development with all sectors, including the community ( Hawaii Ocean Resources Management Plan ) and leadership roles in the Pacific ( Pacific Regional Ocean Partnership and Pacific Regional Planning Body ); supporting better scientific and cultural knowledge to better manage our natural resources for current and future generations ( National Estuarine Research Reserve System ); decreasing Hawaii’s dependence on imported food ( Food Self-Sufficiency Strategy ); and coordinating the State’s participation in Transit-Oriented Development for uses such as affordable housing, educational facilities, and state services. Waikīkī (Sea Level Rise) Resilience and Adaptation Project (WRAP) Posted in News and Announcements The Waikīkī (Sea Level Rise) Resilience and Adaptation Project (WRAP) was initiated by Senator Sharon Moriwaki and funded by the Legislature in 2023. The Office of Planning and Sustainable Development (OPSD) contracted with the University of Hawaiʻi School of Architecture’s Community Design Center (UH-CDC) which partnered with UH Sea Grant College to create opportunities for […] Read More Waikīkī (Sea Level Rise) Resilience and Adaptation Project (WRAP) Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing Round II Funding Opportunity Posted in News and Announcements The Office of Planning and Sustainable Development (OPSD) invites public comments from September 19, 2024, through October 4, 2024, on Hawaiʻi’s application for the Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing (PRO Housing) Round II grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The grant seeks $3 million for infrastructure planning and design […] Read More Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing Round II Funding Opportunity State Announces the Revision and Update of the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan Posted in News and Announcements DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM STATE OF HAWAII OFFICE OF PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DAVID Y. IGE GOVERNOR MIKE MCCARTNEY DIRECTOR MARY ALICE EVANS OFFICE OF PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 2, 2021 STATE ANNOUNCES THE REVISION AND UPDATE OF THE HAWAIʻI 2050 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN HONOLULU – The State […] Read More State Announces the Revision and Update of the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan The State of Hawaiʻi Office of Planning Becomes the New “State of Hawaiʻi Office of Planning and Sustainable Development” Posted in News and Announcements DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM STATE OF HAWAIʻI OFFICE OF PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DAVID Y. IGE GOVERNOR MIKE MCCARTNEY DIRECTOR MARY ALICE EVANS OFFICE OF PLANNING AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 2, 2021 THE STATE OF HAWAIʻI OFFICE OF PLANNING BECOMES THE NEW “STATE OF HAWAIʻI OFFICE OF PLANNING […] Read More The State of Hawaiʻi Office of Planning Becomes the New “State of Hawaiʻi Office of Planning and Sustainable Development” Statewide Information Sessions for the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan Update Posted in News and Announcements September 25 – October 28, 2020 Office of Planning For Immediate Release: September 18, 2020 HONOLULU—The State of Hawaiʻi Office of Planning (OP) Statewide Sustainability Program is pleased to announce a series of virtual statewide Information Sharing Sessions to inform everyone about the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan (the Plan). The Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan […] Read More Statewide Information Sessions for the Hawaiʻi 2050 Sustainability Plan Update Read More Entries from News and Announcements CZM Program Read More CZM Program GIS Program Read More GIS Program Land Use Division Read More Land Use Division Special Plans Branch Read More Special Plans Branch About Us Site Map Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy State of Hawaii Office of Planning and Sustainable Development Leiopapa A Kamehameha Building (State Office Tower) 235 South Beretania Street, 6th Floor Honolulu, Hawaii 96813 Contact Us Email Us Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/spb/Rural_Economic_Development_Report_010713_Final.pdf) ---
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING  
REPORT  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared By  
SMS RESEARCH  & MARKETING SERVICES, INC.  
Prepared For  
OFFICE OF PLANNING  
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS, ECO NOMIC DEVELOPMENT  & TOURISM  
STATE OF HAWAI I 
 
 October 2010  
This Report was Prepared under an Award from the  
 U.S. Department of Commerce  
Economic Development Administration  
   Award Number 07- 69-06044  
  
 
 
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING REPORT  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared By  
SMS RESEARCH & MARKETING SERVICES, INC.  
Prepared For  
OFFICE OF PLANNING  
DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT & TOURISM  
STATE OF HAWAI I 
 
 October 2010  
This Report was Prepared under an Award from the  
 U.S. Department of Commerce  
Economic Development Administration  
   Award Number 07- 69-06044 
 
 
This publication was prepared by SMS Research & Marketing Services, Inc. The statements,  
conclusions, and recommendations are those of the author(s) and  
do not necessarily reflect the views of the Economic  
Development Administration . 
 
   
Abstract  
 
The purpose of the Planning for Rural Economic Development study is to identify ways 
in which rural communities can increase jobs and businesses while retaining their rural 
character and lifestyle.  It is also intended to examine communities which have retained 
their cultural heritage while expanding their economy.  
 
The study provides economic and demographic information to establish an important 
baseline  of information on Hawaii’s rural communities.  Nationwide research was 
conducted to ident ify “best practices” that could serve as a guide to review and explore 
efforts in the State.  Interviews were conducted with economic development agencies  
and organizations in Hawaii to identify best practices for rural economic development.  
The study was  not able to identify “communities” that have successfully expanded their 
economy while retaining rural character and lifestyle.  However, the study does describe 
non-profit economic development “projects” which have focused on retaining rural 
character and lifestyle.    
Three c ase studies of  economic development projects in rural communities in Hawaii 
and the Mainland are described in depth.   The work of HandMade America which 
supports local crafts in North Carolina and Kohala Center in Hawaii County which 
promotes educational economic development are analyzed.  A case study of Waipa 
Foundation’s work on Kauai was conducted to address the study’s char ge to identify 
ways in which a communities’ cultural heritage could be retained.  
 The report describes best  practices and provides recommendations to promote 
economic development in rural communities while retaining rural character.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Rural Economic Development Report  Page i  
© SMS , Inc. October, 2010  
  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
 
Hawaii’s rural communities play an important part in the mix of elements that make 
Hawaii unique.  Much of Hawaii’s rich multi -cultural heritage is reflected in rural 
communities.  The beauty of Hawaii’s landscape is enhanced by rural open space and the sm all scale of rural communities.  However, many of Hawaii’s rural communities 
have economic difficulties.  Some are still struggling with the transition from sugar to diversified crops.  Many rural communities have yet to find an economic driver comparable to the sugar industry.  
 One of the major challenges facing rural communities is how to create jobs and 
improve economic conditions  while retaining rural character and lifestyle.  Moreover, 
those communities with a strong cultural heritage face the challeng e of retaining their 
culture while developing their economies.  
 The purpose of the Rural Economic Development Planning Study was  to identify ways 
in which rural communities in Hawaii can improve their economic conditions  while 
retaining their rural charact er and lifesty le.  The study was  also intended to identify 
communities which have retained their cultural heritage while growing their economy.   
It sought to do this by researching and identifying other areas which have been able to 
accomplish this and identifying “best practices”, tools and techniques that these successful rural communities have utilized.  It sought to identify models that Hawaii’s rural communities can follow and recommend approaches consistent with the values 
and goals of Hawaii’s communities which could be used in Hawaii .   
 
The report provides economic and demographic information to establish a much needed baseline for information on Hawaii’s rural communities. Based on the socio-
economic information, Puna, Hamakua and Kau in Hawaii County; Hana, Keanae, Molokai and Lanai in Maui County; the Waianae Coast and Kahuku on Oahu; and all areas on Kauai except Poipu and Princeville are distressed areas.  Interviews were 
conducted with economic development agencies and organizations in Hawaii to identify best practices for rural economic development.   
 Nationwide research was conducted to identify “best practices” that could serve as a guide to review and explore efforts within the State.  Interviews were conducted with 
organizations in Hawaii that support rural economic development efforts.  The study 
was not able to identify “communities” which have successfully expanded their economies while retaining rural character and lifestyle or cultural heritage.  However, the study does identify nonprofit “projects” which have promoted economic development while focusing on rural character and lifestyle.    
 
 
Rural Economic Development Report  Page ii  
© SMS , Inc. October, 2010   
 
 
 
 Three Mainland and Hawaii case studies are provided to iden tify best practices.  The 
work of HandMade America which supports local crafts in North Carolina and Kohala 
Center in Hawaii County which promotes educational economic development are 
analyzed in depth.  The Waipa Foundation’s work in the Waipa watershed on Kauai is examined as an economic development activity which supports retention of cultural heritage and practices.  
 The study provides next step recommendations on ways to support rural economic development while retaining rural characteristics.  The study also identifies key elements for a successful community project.  These recommendations and the report have been 
shared with economic development experts in each county. Recommendations  include 
providing infrastructure to support rural economic developm ent projects; providing 
support services for community groups; building awareness of services available to rural 
communities; and supporting entrepreneurship in rural communities.  Examples include 
promoting services via websites; developing a mentorship program for entrepreneurs; 
creating programs which provide stable markets for agriculture and providing business 
skill training.  
 
      
 
        
Rural Economic Development Report  Page ii i 
© SMS , Inc. October, 2010   
 
  
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  
 
Mahalo to all those involved in developing the Rural Economic Development Report.  SMS  
would like to say thank you to all of the community leaders and rural development stakeholders  
for all of your valuable insights.  This report 
cooperation.  
Hawaii State Office of Planning  
•   Abbey Mayer, Director  
•   Mary Lou Kobayashi, Planni ng 
Program Administrator  
•   Mary Alice, Planning Program  
 Manager  
•   Ruby Edwards  
County of Hawaii, Department of 
Research and Development  
•   Randy Kurohara, Director  
•   Beth Dykstra, HCRC Grants  
Specialist  
•   Jane Horike, Economic  
 Development Specialist  
Hawaii Island Economic Development Board  
•   Jacqui Hoover, Executive Director  
Office of Economic Development, County of Maui  
•   Deidre Tegarden, Coordinator  
•   JoAnn Inamasu, Deputy Coordinator  
Maui Economic Development Board  
•   Jeanne  Skog, President  
Molokai Enterprise Community  
•   Stacy Crivello, President  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
Rural Economic Development Report © 
SMS , Inc. would not be possible without your help and 
 
 
Office of Economic Development, 
County of Kaua‘ i 
•   George  Costa, Director  
Kaua‘ i Economic Development Board  
•   Mattie Yoshioka, President & CEO  
•   Susan Tai, Kauai Economic  
Development Plan Director  
Office of Economic Development, 
C & C of Honolulu  
•   Ann Chung, Director  
Enterprise Honolulu  
•   Pono Shim, President & CEO  
Farm Service Agency -  USDA  
•   Diane Ley, State Executive Director  
Hawaii Alliance for Community Based 
Economic Development  
•   Robert Agres, Executive Director  
USDA Rural Development  
•   Irene Lam  
Waianae Coast Coalition 
•   Joe Lapilio, Executive Director  
Economic Development 
Administration  
•   Gail Fujita  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Page iv   
October, 2010  CONTENTS  
 
 
ABSTRACT…………………………………………………………………………………………………... i 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY……………………………………………………………………………………. ii 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ……………………………………………………………………………………. iv 
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUMMARY  ...................................................................  .... 1 
BACKGROUND  .....................................................................................................................  .... 1 
PROCESS OVERVIEW  ......................................................................................................  .... 1 
RURAL COMMUNITIES IN THE STATE OF HAWAI’I  .............................................................  .... 2 
COUNTY DEVELOPMENT PLANS  .....................................................................................  .... 2 
SUMMARY OF DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC INFORMATION  ...................................  .... 7 
PARALLELS BETWEEN RURAL AREAS AND STATEWIDE AVERAGES  ..........................  .... 7 
DISPARITIES BETWEEN RURAL AREAS AND STATEWIDE AVERAGES  ........................  .... 8 
SELECTED RURAL COMMUNITIES  ..................................................................................  .... 8 
BEST PRACTICES FOR RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS THAT MAY BE 
APPLICABLE TO HAWAI’I  .....................................................................................................  .... 9 
IN-DEPTH CASE STUDIES OF SUCCESSFUL RURAL DEVELOPMENT  ................................... 12 
KEY ELEMENTS FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  .................................................................  13 
CHALLENGES FACING COMMUNITIES TO ACHIEVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ................ 18 
RECOMMENDATIONS TO SUPPORT RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  ............................ 20 
PART ONE:  OVERVIEW OF RURAL COMMUNITIES IN HAWAII  ................................................. 24 
BACKGROUND  .......................................................................................................................... 24 
PROCESS OVERVIEW  ........................................................................................................... 24 
RURAL COMMUNITIES  .............................................................................................................. 25 
COUNTY DEVELOPMENT PLANS  .......................................................................................... 25 
SUMMARY OF DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC INFORMATION OF RURAL AREAS… .…..30 
PARALLELS BETWEEN RURAL AREAS AND STATEWIDE AVERAGES  ............................... 30 
DISPARITIES BETWEEN RURAL AREAS AND STATEWIDE AVERAGES  ............................. 31 
EVALUATION OF SPECIFIC ZIP CODE AREAS  ..................................................................... 31 
EXPERT INSIGHTS OF RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN HAWAI‘I  ................................ 34 
OVERVIEW OF RURAL COMMUNITIES  ................................................................................. 38 
PART TWO:  BEST PRACTICES FOR RURAL COMMUNITIES  .................................................... 39 
BACKGROUND  .......................................................................................................................... 39 PROCESS OVERVIEW  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 39 
TYPES AND LESSONS FOR RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS  .....................  40 
“CREATIVE ENTERPRISE CLUSTER”  ................................ ................................ ................  40 
“SUPPORTING RURAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP”  ................................ ................................  42 
COMMON PRACTICES FOR SUCCESSFUL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  ...........................  44 
CHALLENGES FACING COMMUNITIES TO ACHIEVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  ............  48 
EXAMPLES OF RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS  ................................ ..........  50 
MA‘O FARMS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................  50 
MAKU’U FARMERS ASSOCIATION  ................................ ................................ ....................  53 
IN-DEPTH CASE STUDIES OF SUCCESSFUL RURAL DEVELOPMENT  ...............................  55 
PART THREE: RECOMMENDATIONS TO SUPPORT RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  
...................................................................................................................... ............... .....................56  
STREAMLINE POLICIES AND REGULATIONS FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  ...............  56 
PROVIDE INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  ............  56 
PROVIDE SUPPORT SERVICES FOR COMMUNITY GROUPS  ................................ .............  56 
BUILD AWARENESS OF SERVICES AVAILABLE TO  COMMUNITIES  ................................ ... 57 
SUPPORT ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN THE COMMUNITIES  ................................ ...................  58 
APPENDICES  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  59 
APPENDIX A - DEFINITION OF RURAL  ................................ ................................ ..............  59 
APPENDIX B - RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT - COUNTY GENERAL &  
DEVELOPMENT PLANS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  65 
APPENDIX C - ECONOMIC & DEMOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS OF RURAL AND 
URBAN AREAS BY CENSUS BLOCK GROUP  ................................ ................................ ...........  66 
APPENDIX D - ECONOMIC & DEMOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS OF RURAL AREAS  
BY ZIP CODE  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  67 
APPENDIX E - MORE DETAILS OF “BEST PRACTICES” PROJECTS  ................................ ....... 68 
APPENDIX F:  CASE STUDIES  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 85 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 1 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 RRUURRAALL  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  SSUUMMMMAARRYY  
 
 
BBAACCKKGGRROOUUNNDD  
 
DBEDT Office of Planning (“OP”) has three main obje ctives, one of which is to “ensure 
comprehensive planning and coordination to enhance the quality of life of the people of Hawai‘i.”  
To that end the OP commissioned an important study that seeks to establish a baseline 
understanding of economic and social conditions in the rural areas of Hawai'i, leverage learning 
and best practices from other communities that have  successfully dealt with rural economic 
development and maintenance of rural character.  Wi th this context and understanding develop 
materials that clearly describe recommendations and  next steps for rural economic development 
in Hawai'i.  The OP has clearly recognized that acc urate, comprehensive, and easily-
understandable data, analysis, insights, and recomm endations are extremely important for 
policy formulation in making decisions around rural  economic development while taking into 
account people’s desire to maintain a rural way of life. 
 
 
PPrroocceessss  OOvveerrvviieeww  
 
This project was approached in a systematic manner:  
 
/head2right First, was to reach a generally accepted definition  of “rural. “ SMS began with the 
multiple definitions used by the U.S. Census Bureau  and evaluated how those definitions 
fit with communities in the State.   
/head2right Second, geographic areas were defined by boundaries  used in County Community 
Development Plans.  Plus within those plans how are  those areas describing the future 
they would like – is it consistent with rural chara cteristics or more development?  
/head2right Third, was to look at demographic and economic char acteristics of areas.  The first 
review was how rural areas compared with urban area s – were there unique 
characteristics of each?  Then the rural areas were  reviewed in greater detail, looking 
particularly for measures of a community in economi c distress.  In these two reviews we 
used data initially at consolidated Block Groups an d then by Zip codes to access 
information more relevant for this study. 
/head2right SMS undertook a major research effort into rural ec onomic development searching for 
“best practices” nationwide and worldwide that coul d serve as a guide to review and 
explore efforts within the State.  In addition inte rviews were conducted with organizations 
in Hawai’i that support rural economic development efforts including:  Kamehameha 
Schools, Office of Hawaiian Affairs and Hawai’i Far m Bureau.   
/head2right Based on the earlier steps, three community develop ment efforts were researched and 
interviews conducted, the results were written up i n three case studies:  The Kohala 
Center, The Waipä Foundation and HandMade in Americ a. 
/head2right Recommendations on ways to support rural economic d evelopment while retaining rural 
characteristics have been developed based on the in formation gathered in prior phases.  
These recommendations and the report have been shar ed with economic development  
experts in each County and updates have been made t o reflect their feedback.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 2 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 This summary provides the highlights the above step s and recommendations to support 
rural and economic development in Hawaii in ways th at are consistent with residents’ 
desires for a rural lifestyle; maintenance of rural  communities and Hawai’i’s unique culture.  
Following the summary are each of the individual re ports.  
 
 
RRUURRAALL  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS  IINN  TTHHEE  SSTTAATTEE  OOFF  HHAAWWAAII’’II  
 
There are many definitions of “rural,” the most com monly used is the definition provided by the 
U.S. Census Bureau:  “classification of rural consi sts of all territory, population, and housing 
units located outside of urbanized areas and urban clusters. Urbanized areas include 
populations of at least 50,000, and urban clusters include populations between 2,500 and 
50,000. The core areas of both urbanized areas and urban clusters are defined based on 
population density of 1,000 per square mile and the n certain blocks adjacent to them are added 
that have at least 500 persons per square mile.”  A ppendix A provides a description of 
commonly used definitions.  Depending on definition  used, rural areas may be all areas other 
than O’ahu, or all the areas outside of urban Honol ulu, East Honolulu, Central O‘ahu, ‘Ewa, Hilo, 
Kona, Kahului/Wailuku, Lahaina, and L īhu‘e.   
 
 
CCoouunnttyy  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  PPllaannss  
 
It was determined that the initial geographic bound aries of areas to be reviewed were those that 
Counties use for Community Development Planning pur poses.  The color blocks as shown in 
the following maps show the boundaries. 
 
Community Development Plans were also reviewed to u nderstand the aspirations of residents 
for their community.  The language and level of det ail in each plan varies, therefore plans were 
reviewed closely to identify statements that were c onsistent with retaining rural characteristics 
and lifestyles.  The following areas have specific references in their County Community 
Development Plans to “retain rural characteristics, “ have an emphasis on retaining an 
agricultural lifestyle, and/or preservation of hist orical areas - specific references within the plans  
are noted next to the geographic areas. 
 
Oahu:  
 
/head2right Ko’olauloa – “Maintain the region’s rural character” 
/head2right Ko’olaupoko  is a mixed community of rural and suburban areas.  Within the agricultural 
areas “encourage small lot agricultural use and pre vent conversion of agricultural lands 
to non-agricultural uses.” 
/head2right North Shore  – “Preserve and protect the rural character and na tural features and setting 
of the region by establishing ‘rural’ forms of deve lopment and subdivision standards, in 
contrast to existing urban standards”  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 3 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 /head2right Waianae  – “No increase in land designated for residential uses,” and “provide zoning 
and tax incentives for people to farm the land” 
Kaua’i  
 
/head2right All Areas – “promote and preserve open agricultural  lands as a key element of Kaua’i’s 
rural character and lifestyle” 
 
Hawai’i Island  
 
/head2right All Areas – “Protect, restore and enhance the sites , buildings, and objectives of 
significant historical and cultural importance to H awai‘i” 
/head2right Hamakua  – “diversify the economic base and enhance histori cal aspects of the area 
including existing ranching operations and the form er sugar industry” 
/head2right North Kohala  – “Support efforts to promote small business devel opment that is 
consistent with the rural, agricultural and histori c character of the area” 
 
Maui  
 
/head2right Hana – “Preservation and enhancement of the current land  use patterns, which establish 
and enrich the Hana Community Plan region’s unique and diverse qualities” and “a 
balanced local economy, which provides long-term vi ability and sustainability while 
meeting residents’ needs and respecting the cultura l and natural resources of Hana” and 
“identification, preservation, protection and where  appropriate restoration of significant 
cultural resources and practices that provide a sen se of history and identity for the Hana 
region.” 
/head2right Makawao/Pukalani/Kula  – “The maintenance and enhancement of Upcountry’s unique 
and diverse rural land use character with sensitivi ty to existing land use patterns, natural 
resource values, and economic and social needs of t he region’s residents and “a stable 
and diverse economic environment which supports a l evel of community prosperity in 
order to provide social services and environmental amenities and which respects the 
region’s rural and agricultural lifestyle, open spa ce and natural resources.” 
/head2right Pa’ia/Ha’iku  – “A well-planned community that preserves the reg ion’s small town 
ambiance and rural character…” and “a stable econom y that complements the rural 
character of the region and provides opportunities for economic diversification and 
community needs” and “attractive rural town develop ment in keeping with the existing 
scale, form and character of settlement areas in th e region.” 
 
Läna’i – whole island  
 
/head2right “Maintain and enhance Läna’i‘s rural atmosphere, re specting its vast open space 
character and small island town environment which a re unique in the State of Hawai’i.” 
/head2right “Create a stable and diverse economic climate which  is consistent and compatible with 
Lana’i’s rural island lifestyle.” 
/head2right “Preserve and enhance the unique urban design chara cter of Läna’i through 
consideration of planning, land use and design stan dards which respect the island’s rural 
plantation history.”  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 4 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Moloka’i – whole island  
 
/head2right “A balanced local economy which provides preferred employment levels, long term 
viability and sustainability while meeting resident ’s needs, respecting cultural and natural 
resources, and is in harmony with Moloka’i’s rural quasi-subsistence lifestyle. 
/head2right “Preservation, enhancement and appropriate use of c ultural resources, cultural practices 
and historic sites that provide a sense of history and define a sense of place for the 
island of Moloka’i.” 
/head2right “The continued practice of subsistence as a part of  the Moloka‘i lifestyle which 
incorporates and fosters the traditional and cultur al values of conservation, malama ‘aina 
and ‘auwana.”  
 
Overall, there are many communities in the State wi th aspirations to maintain a rural lifestyle, 
consistent with an agricultural economic base and r espect for historical and cultural sites. 
 
 
  Rural Economic Development Report  Page 5 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010  
KAUPUNAHAMAKUA
NORTH KONASOUTH HILONORTH
HILOSOUTH
KOHALA
SOUTH
KONANORTH
KOHALADP Area Boundaries
Census Blocks (various colors)Legend
 
 LIHUEWAIMEA-KEKAHANORTH SHORE
KAPAA-WAILUA
KOLOA-POIPUHANAPEPE-
ELEELEDP Area Boundaries
Census Blocks (various colors)Legend
KAWAIHAU  Rural Economic Development Report  Page 6 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 EWACENTRAL OAHU
WAIANAE
KOOLAUPOKOKOOLAULOA
PRIMARY URBAN CENTER
EAST HONOLULUNORTH SHOREDP Area Boundaries
Census Blocks (various colors)Legend
  HANALAHAINA
MAKAWAO-PUKALANI-KULAPAIA-HAIKU
KIHEI-MAKENAWAILUKU-KAHULUI
KAHOOLAWEDP Area Boundaries
Census Blocks (various colors)Legend
    
           
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 7 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 SSuummmmaarryy  ooff  DDeemmooggrraapphhiicc  aanndd  EEccoonnoommiicc  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  
 
Within the boundaries defined by the Community Deve lopment Plans, SMS defined 
corresponding Census tracts and block groups as mar ked with red lines in the previous map.  
Using these census tracts and block groups SMS was able to gather social and economic data 
for each of these areas from the 2000 Census.   
 
Given this initial data, the first level of review was to compare the differences between urban 
and rural housing units.  This was a simple first c ut based on population per square mile.  The 
areas with greater rural populations were similar t o those areas noted earlier in the discussion of 
definition of rural.  Based on this review and rela ted statistics, the following community 
development plan areas were identified as being rur al in nature: 
 
/head2right Hawai‘i Island:  North Kohala, South Kohala, Ka’u, Puna and Hamakua Coast. 
/head2right Kaua’i:  North Shore, Kawaihau, Koloa, West side, W aimea 
/head2right Läna’i 
/head2right Maui Island:  North Shore, East Maui and Upcountry 
/head2right Moloka’i  
/head2right O’ahu:  Ko’olauloa, Ko’olaupoko, North Shore and Wa ianae. 
 
With the broad areas defined as rural, it was decid ed to look more closely within those areas to 
identify smaller community groupings.  Zip code-def ined areas within the community boundaries 
were identified to provide information that was mea ningful to better understanding the nature of 
these communities.  Note, the most recent economic and demographic information at the Zip 
code level is still only available for the year 200 0.   
 
In reviewing the data several key indicators reveal ed that many rural communities appear to 
have characteristics that are inconsistent with a h ealthy community and different from overall 
statewide averages. The indicators used to analyze these communities ranged from general 
demographic data such as age and household size, to  education levels such as high school 
diplomas and bachelor’s degrees, to poverty levels,  and mean travel time to work.  
 
 
PPaarraalllleellss  bbeettwweeeenn  RRuurraall  AArreeaass  aanndd  SSttaatteewwiiddee  AAvveerraaggeess  
 
Demographic indicators such as the median age, prop ortion of age ranges, and average 
household and family size for rural areas were simi lar to statewide averages, which means 
there are equivalent proportions of age distributio ns between rural and statewide populations. 
Furthermore, the average family and household size are comparable in rural areas compared to 
statewide averages in family and household size. Th ose classified with a “disability status” was 
also similar for both rural areas and statewide ave rages. 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 8 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 DDiissppaarriittiieess  bbeettwweeeenn  RRuurraall  AArreeaass  aanndd  SSttaatteewwiiddee  AAvveerraaggeess  
 
The data reveals significant differences in some in dicators that demonstrate the challenges that 
rural areas face.  Rural areas have on average a lo wer median household income and lower per 
capita income than the state.  Additionally, there are a greater proportion of individuals and 
families living below the poverty line in rural are as compared to the state average. 
 
In the labor force, there is a higher proportion of  employment and consequently, a lower rate of 
unemployment for the state compared to rural areas.  Rural areas are often limited in the variety 
of jobs they attract.  There are higher levels of w orkers classifying their occupation as farming, 
fishing, and forestry in rural areas as compared to  the state as a whole. Furthermore, due to 
limited job opportunities rural areas face longer c ommutes to work than the state’s average.  
More time spent traveling means less time at home i n their community for people who commute 
from rural areas. 
 
Rural areas tend to have lower education achievemen t levels as indicated by the lower number 
of individuals with their high school or bachelor’s  degrees as compared to the state’s average.  
Also, statewide there are a higher proportion of fo reign languages spoken in the home as 
compared to rural areas. 
 
Rural areas do tend to have higher proportions of o wner occupied homes and consequently, 
lower renter occupied homes than the state. 
 
Finally, a description of highlights and challenges  are shown below. 
 
/head2right Highlights:   Rural areas do tend to have higher levels of owne r occupied homes and 
workers in the farming, fishing, and forestry indus tries, than statewide averages. 
/head2right Challenges:   Rural areas do tend to have lower education level s, higher unemployment, 
lengthier travel times to work, and higher poverty levels than statewide averages. 
Many rural communities in Hawai’i suffer economic c onditions that are detrimental to a healthy 
thriving community:  greater percent of individuals  and households in poverty, higher levels of 
unemployment and greater drive times to work as an example. 
 
 
SSeelleecctteedd  RRuurraall  CCoommmmuunniittiieess    
 
The following communities are consistent with the d efinition of rural, have aspirations of 
retaining rural characteristics in their County Com munity Development Plans, have economic 
and demographic indicators of a community in need o f rural economic development assistance 
and have been recognized by leaders in the communit y as needing rural economic development 
assistance. 
 
/head2right Hawai‘i Island Districts 
o Puna; 
o Hamakua; 
o Ka‘u.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 9 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 /head2right Maui County 
o Häna; 
o Moloka‘i; 
o Läna‘i. 
/head2right O‘ahu  
o Wai‘anae; 
o North Shore. 
/head2right Kaua‘i  
o All except for Po‘ipü, Princeville, L īhu‘e. 
 
 
BBEESSTT  PPRRAACCTTIICCEESS  FFOORR  RRUURRAALL  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  EEFFFFOORRTTSS  
TTHHAATT  MMAAYY  BBEE  AAPPPPLLIICCAABBLLEE  TTOO  HHAAWWAAII’’II..  
 
A search was conducted nationwide to find rural eco nomic development efforts that have been 
successful in creating economic growth while retain ing rural characteristics.  These examples 
can serve as proven possibilities for Hawai’i rural  communities. 
 
1.  “Creative Enterprise Cluster” 1 
 
This approach builds upon unique arts and/or crafts  skills within a community, and, supports the 
heritage and traditional culture of an area.   Char acteristics of this approach include: 
 
/head2right Designate a lead Small Business Development Center for creative enterprises. 
/head2right Support networks and networking. 
/head2right Bundle arts and design with entertainment and cultu ral tourism. 
/head2right Embed art and design in education. 
/head2right Make greater use of community colleges.  
 
Examples: 
(1) Handmade in America 
“A non-profit organization promoting craft and cult ure for community and economic development 
in western North Carolina. Serves as a support syst em for craftspeople and the crafts industry.” 
 
(2) Project Row Houses 
“A neighborhood-based nonprofit art and cultural or ganization in Houston’s Northern Third 
Ward, one of the city’s oldest African-American com munities.” The program encourages: Quality 
Education, Strong Neighborhoods, Preserve local cha racter.  
 
                                                
1 http://www.eda.gov/ImageCache/EDAPublic/documents/p dfdocs/edasummer2004_5ffinal_2epdf/v1/edasummer2004 _5ffinal.pdf   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 10 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 2.  “Regional Agriculture Development Programs ”2 
 
For communities with a strong agricultural base, th is is an approach that has worked. 
 
1. Ensure marketing outlets for regional growers. 
2. How regional agriculture development campaigns f unction 
a. The formation of regional agricultural associati ons – farmers, restaurateurs, food 
retailers. 
b. The development of regional produce and product labels. 
c. The development of business relationships betwee n regional producers and retail 
food enterprises. 
d. Labels identifying regional products are display ed in participating food 
enterprises and at farmers’ markets. 
e. Non-profit organizations or regional agriculture  associations promote the 
purchase of regional food products through advertis ements in local media. These 
advertising campaigns are designed to educate consu mers about the benefits of 
buying regionally produced commodities and to profi le businesses and growers 
within the membership association. 
f. Create websites with “food maps” indicating wher e your food exactly originates. 
 
3.  “Agrotourism and Rural Development” 3 
 
This is an example of how one type of development m ay build on and complement another.  
Grouping of interesting sites, activities, and even ts that can only be accomplished on a regional 
basis through cooperation creates a “power of clust ers.”  Note for this approach to be successful 
the area needs to be accessible by a sufficient num ber of potential customers. 
 
Events that are complementary within a rural enviro nment may include activities such as: 
Agricultural Festivals, Antique Stores, Bed and Bre akfasts, Farmers Markets, Mazes, Petting 
Zoos, Roadside markets, Scenic Byway Tours, Winerie s, Camping, Ecosystem Preserves, 
Hiking, U pick it farms, Tractor Pulls/Hay rides. 
 
Example: Uplands Wine Trail. Launched in 2004, cons ists of seven Indiana wineries, which 
tourists can travel between, staying in bed and bre akfasts, eating at local restaurants, and 
shopping along the way. 
 
4.  “Rural Leadership Development” 4 
 
One of the challenges that face rural communities i s the lack of skilled leadership to bring the 
community together to move in new directions.   
 
Challenges unique to rural leadership development i nclude: 
 
/head2right Due to the limited scale of local government, rural  communities often have to rely on an 
all-volunteer leadership base. 
/head2right Philanthropic funding is extraordinarily difficult to obtain. For example, there is little 
corporate or foundation support for rural leadershi p development.  
                                                
2  http://casfs.ucsc.edu/education/instruction/tdm/dow nload/5.3_Buy_Local.pdf  
3  http://www.ibrc.indiana.edu/IBR/2006/fall/article3. html  
4  http://www.pewpartnership.org/pdf/01_rural_leadersh ip.pdf   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 11 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 /head2right Most leadership training does not result in true ca pacity building for small communities. 
In the typical model, an individual is sent away fo r a week to a university-based program 
outside of the rural area. This individual is then expected to come back and be the 
leadership for the community. 
 
What type of organization within a community is req uired to facilitate and coordinate the 
changes that are required for development to occur?  “Getting the Idea to Fly” 
 
/head2right You need to “build a container” for your revitaliza tion efforts.  Formally organizing a non-
profit that becomes the permanent organization, the  place to coordinate day-to-day 
activities and store financial information. It is t he mechanism that allows your community 
to sustain its work and gives your program a life b eyond “Fred and Bobby having coffee 
and talking.” As a nonprofit organization, it will also help you access funds. 
 
Look for places where you can achieve small success es, and then build on the momentum. It’s 
easier to motivate volunteers (and publicize your e fforts) by racking up a list of small successes, 
rather than set the bar too high and fail to reach your goal. 
 
5. “Supporting Rural Entrepreneurship” 5 
 
Communities can attract entrepreneurs given adequat e infrastructure and support – or- 
communities can identify entrepreneurs from within and provide them with the support to 
overcome obstacles.  
 
Investment in High Quality Intermediaries 
 
/head2right The premise is that policies to promote rural entre preneurship have to address two 
economic realities: limited opportunities to achiev e economies of scale, and the need to 
identify and exploit comparative advantage. 
 
Obstacles to Rural Development 
 
/head2right The small size and low densities of rural communiti es. 
/head2right The social and economic composition of rural commun ities. 
/head2right The nature of internal and external linkages. 
 
Opportunities for Development 
 
/head2right Products that project traditions of quality, crafts manship, connectedness with nature, and 
a sense of place and culture. 
/head2right Quality of life and natural beauty offered by many rural communities, which are attracting 
entrepreneurs to relocate from congested and pressu red cities. 
 
                                                
5  Source: Dabson, Brian. Supporting Rural Entrepren eurship . http://www.cfed.org/  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 12 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 IINN--DDEEPPTTHH  CCAASSEE  SSTTUUDDIIEESS  OOFF  SSUUCCCCEESSSSFFUULL  RRUURRAALL  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
In conjunction with DBEDT Office of Planning three organizations were selected for greater in-
depth review:  Waipä Foundation; the Kohala Center,  and HandMade in America.  The complete 
case studies are included in Appendix F. 
 
/head2right The Kohala Center (TKC) is a non-profit, independen t academic institution.   The 
mission of TKC is: to respectfully engage the Islan d of Hawai‘i as an extraordinary and 
vibrant research and learning laboratory for humani ty. 6 The vision of TKC is to achieve: a 
state of pono , in which individuals realize their potential, con tributing their very best to 
one another, to the community, and to the ‘Äina (the land) itself, in exchange for a 
meaningful and happy life.  7 
 
/head2right Waipä Foundation is a community based nonprofit, wh ose mission is to restore the 
physical and cultural vibrancy of the 1,600-acre Wa ipä watershed through the creation of 
a Hawaiian community center and learning center. Th e Foundation has been managing 
the Waipä ahupua’a since 1994, and with help from p artners, volunteers and funders 
has developed and restored taro farms, organic and Hawaiian plant gardens, a koa 
reforestation site, a coastal fishpond, plant nurse ry, and farmers market all of which 
serve as learning sites on the property.  
 
/head2right The work of HandMade in America is presently organi zed into two entities: the 
HandMade in America Foundation and the HandMade in America Community 
Development Corporation.  The Board of the Foundati on works to establish an academic 
base to promote crafts throughout all levels of edu cation as object, subject and process; 
and to develop community strategies that will colle ctively enhance Western North 
Carolina's role nationally and internationally with in the handmade field. The Community 
Development Corporation’s Board develops community strategies that will enhance 
Western North Carolina's role nationally and intern ationally within the handmade field; 
and implements environmentally sustainable economic  strategies for Western North 
Carolina that emphasize the handmade industry and c ultural and heritage tourism. 
 
                                                
6 The Kohala Center, 2009 annual report. 
7 The Kohala Center, 2009 annual report  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 13 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 KKEEYY  EELLEEMMEENNTTSS  FFOORR  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
Based on the best practices studies, the interviews  and the case studies done on Handmade in 
America, Waipä Foundation, and The Kohala Center, a  simplistic description of what it takes for 
any type of successful community project is describ ed below:  
 
 
 
The foundation of the model is the underlying desir e to retain rural characteristics and cultural 
traditions.  This cannot be mandated or forced; it is an identified desire of all the people who 
participate in the process.   In most rural areas i n Hawai’i it’s a desire to retain the 
agricultural/ranching aspects of the community and/ or retain Hawaiian culture and values.   
 
Above this basic foundation is a project diagram.  The diagram is a circle, because the “pieces” 
may enter the process at different times – it’s not  necessarily sequential.  In essence a leader 
(or a group) takes a realistic view of the strength s and weaknesses, opportunities and threats 
(SWOT) of their community.  They identify an opport unity that builds on the strengths of the 
community and overcomes weaknesses (which is often economic distress) that leads to a 
strong vision.  The group then finds funding to cap italize on the opportunity.  Careful and 
extensive planning is essential at this stage to th ink through all the steps to realizing the final 
project.   Usually at this stage funding is in the form of government loans or government/non-
profit grants.  Community support is generally buil t during this process, but sometimes occurs 
after the project is seen as successful.     
 Realistic 
SWOT of the 
community 
resulting in 
solid vision Leadership from w/in 
the community 
Community 
Buy-in/Support Capital/Resources 
Funding Successful 
Community  
Project 
Community 
Development of a Plan Desire to Retain Rural Characteristics 
&  Cultural Traditions  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 14 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 The three organizations profiled in the case studie s each evolved using these six key elements: 
 
/head2right Waipä Foundation :  In the mid-80s plans were being considered to bu ild housing within 
the Waipä ahupuaÿa.  A group of Hanalei farmers org anized and developed a plan for 
the ahupuaÿa that would retain the agricultural cha racteristics of the land and the 
lifestyle of the community.    The strength of the community was the land and its history 
– the vision was “the physical and cultural restora tion of the ahupua'a of Waipa.”  Over 
the years the group organized into the Waipä Founda tion.   From the beginning 
developing a master plan for the organization and t he ahupuaÿa was undertaken with 
funds from Kamehameha Schools and government grants .   Stacy Sproat, the Executive 
Director of the Foundation, is well qualified with a degree in Entrepreneurship and she 
comes from the area.   The core elements of the the  process undertaken by Waipä is 
illlustrated in the model. 
 
/head2right The Kohala Center   evolved from the North Hawai’i residents searchin g for ways to 
improve the quality of life in their community.  In  1999 – 2000, Five Mountains Hawai’i, a 
community health not-for-profit organization, under took an extensive planning process 
that included gathering of community measures, 12 c ommunity meetings at which data 
was shared and priority community outcomes were ide ntified, and interviews with 
leaders in a broad range of private and public sect ors.  The vision that evolved is: “ North 
Hawai’i is a great place to live, with a great sens e of community, a great place to work, 
play and raise a strong family and a great place to  heal.”   
 
In January 2001 the Kohala Center was officially an nounced in Waimea.  “ The Kohala 
Center emerged in response to identified community needs and to the generous interest 
of the world’s scientific community. Through the ce nter’s focus on research and 
education and its respectful engagement of the Hawa i’i Island environments, the Center 
could sustain the natural environment, strengthen t he social fabric, and develop the 
economy of Hawai’i Island.  The Kohala Center would  help communities on the island 
and around the world thrive – ecologically, economi cally, culturally and socially.” 
 
Early in its creation TKC was a beneficiary of fund ing from the Five Mountain 
organization and its founder Earl Bakken to assist with planning and organizing.  Dr. 
Bakken recruited Dr. Matthews Hamabata,  the first and only Director of TKC, who was 
born and raised in Lihue, Kauai, received his Docto rate degree from Harvard, was a 
dean at Haverford College in Philadelphia and a pro fessor at Yale University. He is 
supported by Elizabeth “Betsy” Cole who has lived o n the island since 1980 and was an 
integral part of the community and of Five Mountain . 
 
/head2right HandMade in America  – Western North Carolina is blessed with its locat ion because 
the placement of major Interstate highways makes it  within a day’s drive of 50% of the 
population of the US.   However, much of the land i s unsuitable for economic investment 
due to extensive holdings by corporations and utili ties, watershed restrictions and a 
desire to conserve the Blue Ridge Mountain area.  A  major strength and opportunity for 
the area was a strong tradition of handcrafts.   
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 15 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 A planning process was funded by a three-year organ izational grant from the Pew 
Partnership for Civic Change in response to a grant  request from Community leaders 
who were planning the revitalization of the Ashevil le community.  The regional planning 
process involved 360 citizens to help determine how  to establish Western North Carolina 
as the center of handmade objects in the nation.  I n 1996 the Small Town Revitalization 
Program began. 
 
Frequently when one project succeeds, then multiple  successful projects can build within a 
community.   Each project goes through a similar pr ocess and implements their plan.  The best 
is when planning occurs together and the projects a re linked and support each other. 
 
Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project 
Successful 
Community 
Project 
Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project 
 
 
 
An example: 
 
/head2right HandMade in America  - the initial process led to another process that est ablished the 
Blue Ridge National Heritage Area.  In this region residents, businesses and local 
governments joined together to conserve and celebra te heritage and special 
landscapes.  Projects and programs evolved in touri sm, education, and economic 
development focused around the region’s distinctive  agri-heritage, crafts, music and 
Cherokee culture. 
 
When do successful projects become successful commu nities?  A community can benefit from 
one or two successful projects and stop, but to “mo ve a measure such as average income or 
number of jobs” requires multiple linked efforts.   Those communities where the links between 
the projects are the strongest, and where new proje cts are identified to complement and support 
earlier projects can see the greatest benefit.  In the research this “inner guide” was frequently a 
non-profit created by the community for the purpose  of making the links stronger.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 16 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010  
Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project 
Successful 
Community 
Project 
Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project Guiding the 
linkages 
 
 
 
Example:   
 
/head2right Waipä Foundation  – Over the years Waipa has developed multiple proj ects that link 
together and complement each other.  An ongoing successful project for Waipä has 
been the Farmers’ Market located on the site.  Each  week there are approximately 30 
vendors and 400 to 600 visitors.  Approximately 75%  of the visitors are tourists from 
around the island – bringing not only spending to t he market, but to the North Shore area 
as a whole.   
 
Poi Day is another Waipä Foundation project that no t only provides food for families, but 
also helps support local kalo farmers because the k alo used comes from the site and is 
also purchased from farmers with fields in the area .  Overtime the goal is for kalo 
farmers to receive a price high enough for their pr oduct for them to be economically self-
sufficient. 
 
Within the next year Waipa should receive the final  permits and funding to construct and 
equip a state certified community commercial kitche n and poi mill as a community asset. 
By project's end, an increased volume, availability  and/or diversity of local foods will be 
available at local farmers markets and other venues .  
 Frequently a 
non-profit 
selected or 
created by the 
community  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 17 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Overtime successful community economic development efforts will coalesce and have a marked 
impact on the larger community. Efforts that are gr ounded in the desire to retain rural 
characteristics and cultural traditions will in fac t enhance those characteristics and traditions.  
Communities that achieve successful economic develo pment have the following characteristics: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Build a base of leaders  
/boxshadowdwn Build on community strengths with projects that lin k together  
/boxshadowdwn Continue to grow community support, sometimes exten ding to other communities 
/boxshadowdwn Be self-sustaining 
/boxshadowdwn Ongoing development and refinement of community dev elopment plans – think beyond 
the next five years to ten, twenty years in the fut ure. 
/boxshadowdwn Have demonstrated measures of improved economic con ditions and community well 
being. 
 
Build on community 
strengths – Projects 
that link together Growing leadership base 
from w/in the community 
Growing Community 
Buy-in/Support Capital/Resources 
Self Sustaining Successful 
Community 
Economic  
Development Refine & Expand 
Community 
Development Plan 
Improved economic conditions & well being Desire to Retain Rural Characteristics 
&  Cultural Traditions 
 
 
An example: 
 
After its first 11 years, HandMade in America  had the following outcome measures just for its 
small town revitalization projects: 
 
/head2right Assisted thirteen small towns 
/head2right 238 businesses created 
/head2right 79 businesses expanded or enhanced 
/head2right 300 new jobs created 
/head2right Total economic impact grew from $122 million to $20 6 million 
/head2right Attracts tourists 
/head2right Represents a clean, sustainable industry that will remain in the region 
/head2right Educates the public about the history and heritage of the unique and culturally rich area 
/head2right Enhances learning for local elementary, intermediat e, high school and college students.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 18 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 The development process for each of the case studie s included these key development factors 
described in best practices.   
 
/head2right The foundation of their vision was to retain the ch aracteristics and cultural traditions of 
their communities.  In fact in each of the cases th e history and culture of the area was a 
significant strength that guided their mission, pla ns and implementation.   
 
/head2right Each of the organizations engaged in in-depth plann ing processes that engaged 
stakeholders and laid out realistic action plans fo r achieving their vision.  They all 
continue to be community focused. 
 
/head2right All three organizations started with small wins tha t led to greater community support and 
have continued to successful grow programs that ben efit the community.  All three now 
have multiple programs that link together to suppor t each other. 
 
/head2right The three organizations have benefited from experie nced knowledgeable leaders that 
are from and/or welcomed by the community.  In turn  they are identifying, engaging and 
mentoring staff to broaden the base of leadership o ver time.  
 
/head2right All three organizations received initial funding to  develop their plans through 
philanthropic grants – Kamehameha Schools, Five Mou ntain, Pew Charitable Trust.  
 
/head2right/head2right  At this time only HandMade in America has become se lf-sustaining.   
 
 
CCHHAALLLLEENNGGEESS  FFAACCIINNGG  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS  TTOO  AACCHHIIEEVVEE  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  
DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
Simple diagrams can be deceiving.  Based on the cas e studies, best practices and interviews 
there are multiple challenges facing communities. 
 
1. Leadership must come from within the community.  Whether it’s to start a project or 
begin a more extensive planning process, the impetu s must come from within the 
community.  To identify a leader within the communi ty can be challenging, because as 
we looked at the characteristics of rural communiti es, more of the residents had lower 
education levels, in most of the communities there was not an active business base, and 
“outsiders” were not trusted. 
 
2. Community buy-in is critical element when beginn ing a larger planning process or 
expanding beyond an initial successful project.  So me of the Experts expressed doubts 
whether some of the communities in need could overc ome the presence of naysayers to 
any recommendations for change. 
 
3. There are multiple funding options for start-up projects, especially rural projects that 
have an agricultural base.  Funding comes from Fede ral and State government as well 
as entities such as the Hawaii Farm Bureau.  The ch allenge with this funding is that 
often the “leader” is not trained in writing grant requests or is too busy running their 
operation to take the time to prepare the required request.   Plus one project is just the 
beginning; more is required to expand the efforts t hroughout the community.  Funding is 
more difficult to obtain for larger scale planning processes that could really engage a  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 19 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 community.  One option is Community Based Economic Development (CBED) grants, 
however these requests require significant time and  effort on the part of many members 
of the community to prepare an acceptable packet.  OHA provides some grants through 
its CBED efforts, however these are mostly project- based. 
 
4. The challenge with economic development efforts that focus on just projects rather than 
“projects with linkages” is that the project may or  may not become self-sustaining and 
able to grow significantly.  To bring any product o r service to market and make it a 
profitable business is a complex process.  For exam ple the chart below illustrates the 
multiple parties and planning efforts required just  to keep more cattle in Hawaii to 
provide locally grown beef for Hawaii residents. 8   
 
 
OVERVIEW OF CHALLENGES TO PROVIDE MORE 
HAWAII RAISED BEEF TO HAWAII MARKETS   FAIR 
RETURN TO ALL PARTIES 
PROCESSING COW -CALF 
STOCKER 
FINISHING 
SHIPPING SLAUGHTER 
PROCESSING SHIPPING 
DISTRIBUTION 
DEMAND HOME 
RESTAURAN TLAND 
WATER 
&& &&
Key Issues :
/head2rightNeed for sufficient acreage 
at a fair price of drought 
resistant or irrigation lands to 
accommodate the process 
from calf-cow to finishing in 
Hawaii instead of shipping 
calves to the mainland /head2rightNeed to bring slaughter 
& processing costs lower 
which requires greater 
economies of scale (more 
guaranteed # of quality 
head/week ) 
and newer slaughter & 
processing facilities /head2rightMore beef being 
processed requires a 
larger market therefore 
cost-effective, reliable 
transportation between 
islands is necessary /head2rightNeed to build 
sufficient demand 
for grass-fed, 
locally grown beef 
that will command a 
higher price ENVIRONMENT RANCHING 
 
 
 
The Farm Bureau and the Council are requesting fund s to develop a plan that addresses 
all of the elements of the process simultaneously.  This would be a similarly complex 
process for any significant agricultural product gr own on the neighbor islands to be sold 
on O’ahu or the mainland.  This would again require  significant cooperative planning 
efforts, which neither farmers nor ranchers have th e time nor resources to invest this 
process.  Therefore the challenge becomes one of ac quiring sufficient resources to 
facilitate the planning process and it has to be do ne in a way that all the parties are 
engaged and buy into the process. 
 
                                                
8  Prepared by SMS for the Hawai’i Farm Bureau and H awai’i Cattlemen’s Council  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 20 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 5. Investment in rural communities requires patienc e and persistence.  All rural 
development initiatives must consider that investme nt in rural communities typically 
require longer time horizons and payback periods th an similar projects in urban areas.  
Due to the unique challenges rural communities face , attention needs to be paid to 
development and investment over the longer term.  A dditionally, stakeholders need to be 
reassured of this long-term orientation in order to  ensure project success.  A newly 
formed project can lose momentum if “naysayers” are  allowed to disrupt a project’s 
development.  It can be extremely challenging for s takeholders to ensure that the doubts 
of “naysayers” are separated from legitimate concer ns.  Rural development is an 
ongoing process that requires leaders in the commun ity who are willing to invest long 
periods of time into projects that may not see imme diate success. 
 
6. New projects in rural areas are often faced with  challenges such as the need for county 
and or state permits, zoning variances or reporting  requirements.  The processes 
required to move through the government is difficul t to understand for the layperson and 
is often cumbersome for everyone.  In addition enti ties in rural communities often 
discover that the state and county regulations were  not in alignment with one another.  
Projects in rural communities sometimes failed due to conflicting and cumbersome 
regulations. 
 
7. One challenge shared by many rural communities i s the lack of infrastructure to support 
economic development.  Rural economic development i s often impeded by: 
a. A lack of fertile land; 
b. Availability of stable sources of water; 
c. Access to electricity; 
d. A lack of Internet access; 
e. Suitable transportation and distribution channel s; 
f. Access to needed human services such as health s ervices, education, etc; 
g. Support projects which provide for these infrast ructure needs. 
 
 
RREECCOOMMMMEENNDDAATTIIOONNSS  TTOO  SSUUPPPPOORRTT  RRUURRAALL  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
Given the best practices, key factors for economic development and challenges facing 
communities the following are recommendations on ho w can agencies and economic 
development boards best assist rural residents in s uccessfully implementing economic 
development efforts that retain rural characteristi cs.   
 
1. Streamline Policies and Regulations for Economic  Development  
 
Policies and regulations need to be streamlined at all government levels in order to support 
rural development.  In addition where regulations a nd policy conflict these should be 
addressed in order to provide opportunities for gro wth.  Government offices should seek out 
regulatory and policy conflicts while also creating  a mechanism for their eventual resolution. 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 21 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 2. Provide Infrastructure to Support Rural Economic  Development  
 
A careful inventory of existing infrastructure stre ngths and weaknesses in rural communities 
should be completed in order to assess the current situation.  Infrastructure needs vary from 
island to island and even between rural communities  within an island.  From there 
encourage partnerships that leverage existing infra structure resources as well as projects 
that provide for additional infrastructure resource s.  When the opportunity arises advocate 
for infrastructure development that supports econom ic development in rural communities. 
 
3. Provide Support Services for Community Groups  
 
As noted multiple times throughout this study the s eeds of community economic 
development projects cannot be sown by entities out side of a community; the vision and 
support for a project must come from within.   Howe ver, it is likely that the “seed project 
groups” may need assistance to bring their project to fruition.   
 
a. Offer services that community groups may need:   
i. Provide funding and guidance to implement succes sful planning processes 
including realistically evaluating the strengths, w eaknesses, opportunities and 
challenges for their community and development of d etailed action steps to 
achieve their vision.   Efforts supported should be  consistent with County 
Plans that in most cases means retaining the charac teristics and traditions of 
rural areas. 
ii. Identifying sources of funds for planning and i mplementation – these may be 
grant opportunities, sources for loans, philanthrop ic connections, government 
loan programs;   
iii. Identify potential partners and linkages – gro ups in other parts of the island, 
county or state that may be/have undertaken somethi ng similar;   
iv. Leadership and management training;  
v. Skills training such as grant writing, building a coalition, managing volunteers, 
marketing, etc. 
 
b. Bring groups together to learn from each other.  Frequently start-up groups go 
through similar growing pains.  If multiple communi ties are undertaking efforts, bring 
them together to share experiences and learn from e ach other.  Likewise inviting 
speakers from projects that have been successful wi ll add to the knowledge base of 
attendees. 
 
c. When the community’s vision is similar to one de scribed in “Best Practices” 
recommend that group connect with the organizations  listed to learn more and 
potentially overcome pitfalls. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 22 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 4. Build Awareness of Services Available to Communi ties  
 
Every interview and case study reiterated that the vision and leadership for economic 
development efforts must come from within the commu nity.  However, it will be necessary 
for these new groups to be aware of the services th at available to them to grow their vision 
into reality.  Primary targets should be those rura l communities with indicators of economic 
distress. 
 
a. Promote services available to rural communities through county council member 
offices or state representatives or senators.  Thes e offices generally know key 
leaders within their communities who can serve as r eferral sources. 
 
b. Promote services via websites so communities can  access the latest information and 
who to contact for additional assistance.  Concurre ntly, this access needs to be 
accessible to rural citizens and not create unneces sary inconvenience and 
intimidation.  Access to this information needs to progress beyond “Frequently asked 
questions” pages and forms/applications but to be t ruly a gateway to the users’ 
requests.  Internet sites should incorporate decisi on trees and simplified pathways to 
navigate the users to their appropriate needs. 
 
c. Encourage service providers to incorporate bette r outreach to community groups.  
These service providers may need to rethink their p ortals of information in order to 
effectively reach their intended audience.   
 
5. Support Entrepreneurship in the Communities  
 
One of the challenges that face rural communities i s an insufficient number of 
knowledgeable and experienced entrepreneurs who hav e new ideas and can bring the 
community together to move in new directions.    Be st practices and stakeholder 
recommendations offer the following options: 
 
a. Encourage and support the development of a non-prof it organization to ”house” 
efforts within a community and become the place to coordinate day-to-day activities 
and raise funds to implement action steps.  Focus o n achieving small successes with 
a smaller group of supportive community members who  share the same vision, then 
build on the momentum.  
 
b. Recommend a process to identify and recruit qualifi ed community members who 
may have moved out of the community to return and b e a part of the economic 
development efforts.   
 
c. Develop a mentorship program for potential entre preneurs who have the vision and 
passion but perhaps lack the skills and connections  to turn their ideas into reality.  
Connecting entrepreneurs with mentors who understan d the challenges and can 
recommend actions based on experience will help min imize implementation 
challenges.  Sometimes there are gaps in skills tra ining and entrepreneurs 
sometimes need one-on-one relationships where they can be walked through the 
process of creating a start-up. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 23 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 d. Create “Anchors to Agriculture” or programs to s upport stable markets for agricultural 
producers.  Often there is a problem of both “getti ng the farmer to believe there is a 
market” while concurrently getting “markets to beli eve in the farmers’ ability to supply 
consistent quantity and quality”. 
 
e. Often entrepreneurs in rural areas lack the appr opriate skill set.  Successful 
agricultural start-ups require skills beyond the da ily operations skill set.  Skills such 
as finance, marketing, business management skills a re needed to create successful 
projects.  Many rural entrepreneurs, for instance, could not bridge the gap between a 
promising idea and a viable business plan. 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 24 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 PPAARRTT  OONNEE::    OOVVEERRVVIIEEWW  OOFF  RRUURRAALL  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS  IINN  HHAAWWAAIIII  
 
 
BBAACCKKGGRROOUUNNDD  
 
One of the main objectives of DBEDT Office of Plann ing (“OP”) is to “ensure comprehensive 
planning and coordination to enhance the quality of  life of the people of Hawai‘i.”  To that end 
the OP commissioned this study to establish a basel ine understanding of economic and social 
conditions in the rural areas of Hawai'i, leverage learning and best practices from other 
communities that have successfully dealt with rural  economic development while also 
maintaining rural character.  
 
The purpose of this report is to analyze rural deve lopment in Hawaii from the community 
perspective and identify the obstacles that impede rural economic success.  Within this context, 
this report intends to develop materials that clear ly describe recommendations and next steps 
for rural economic development in Hawai'i.  The fir st step in this process is to develop a current 
situational analysis of rural areas in Hawaii.  Bel ow are four objectives this section of the report 
will cover. 
 
The objectives for this phase of the project are to : 
 
1. Summarize and present demographic and economic i nformation for rural areas in 
Hawai‘i.  This will provide a much-needed baseline for information on rural communities. 
 
2. Create a summary description of rural developmen t problems, issues and trends in 
Hawai‘i and desired economic development goals and objectives of rural communities. 
 
3. Summarize and articulate the distinct rural econ omic development problems, issues, and 
trends opportunities in Hawai‘i. 
 
4. Incorporate the goals and objectives of county d evelopment plans, focusing primarily on 
community goals and objectives pertaining to rural areas, into this report. 
 
 
PPrroocceessss  oovveerrvviieeww  
 
This phase of the project was approached in a syste matic manner: 
 
/boxshadowdwn First, the project needed to reach a generally acce pted definition of the term “rural.“  SMS 
began with the multiple definition used by the U.S.  Census Bureau and evaluated how those 
definitions applied to communities throughout the S tate.   
 
/boxshadowdwn Second, geographic areas were defined by boundaries  used in County Community 
Development Plans.  Plus within those plans how are  those areas describing the future they 
would like – is it consistent with rural characteri stics or more development? 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 25 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 /boxshadowdwn Third, the project looked at demographic and econom ic characteristics of each area.  
Initially, this required a review of how rural area s compared with urban areas – were there 
unique characteristics specific to each?  Next, rur al areas were reviewed in greater detail – 
looking particularly at measures of a community in economic distress.  In these two reviews, 
data was used according to consolidated Block Group s and then by Zip codes.  The intent 
was to capture as much data and to garner as much r elevant data as possible. 
 
/boxshadowdwn In the fourth step of this phase, interviews were c onducted with individuals who work with 
economic development and were familiar with rural c ommunities.  The intent was to better 
understand the challenges and opportunities of thes e rural communities. 
 
Using this progression of data gathering and evalua tion, SMS highlighted communities, which 
have both economic issues, and are seen by experts as having a need for an economic 
development plan. 
 
 
RRUURRAALL  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS  
 
There are many definitions of the term “rural”.  Th e U.S. Census Bureau defines rural as:   “The 
classification of rural consists of all territory, population, and housing units located outside of 
urbanized areas and urban clusters. Urbanized areas  include populations of at least 50,000, 
and urban clusters include populations between 2,50 0 and 50,000. The core areas of both 
urbanized areas and urban clusters are defined base d on population density of 1,000 per 
square mile and then certain blocks adjacent to the m are added that have at least 500 persons 
per square mile.”  Appendix A provides a descriptio n of commonly used definitions.  Depending 
on the definition used, rural areas may be all area s other than O‘ahu; or all the areas outside of 
urban Honolulu, East Honolulu, Central O‘ahu, ‘Ewa,  Hilo, Kona, Kahului/Wailuku, Lahaina, and 
Līhu‘e.  
 
 
CCoouunnttyy  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  PPllaannss  
 
It was determined that the initial geographic bound aries of areas to be reviewed were those that 
Counties use for Community Development Planning pur poses.  On the following maps, a 
corresponding color block represents these geograph ic boundaries. 
 
Community Development Plans were also reviewed to u nderstand the aspirations of residents 
for their community.  For an overview of these plan s note the document “Rural Economic 
Development – County General & Development Plans” i n Appendix B.  The language and level 
of detail in each plan varies, therefore plans were  reviewed closely to identify statements that 
were consistent with retaining rural characteristic s and lifestyles.  The following areas have 
specific references in their County Community Devel opment Plans to “retain rural 
characteristics,“ have an emphasis on retaining an agricultural lifestyle, and/or preservation of 
historical areas - specific references within the p lans are noted next to the geographic areas. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 26 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Hawai‘i Island  
 
/boxshadowdwn All Areas – “Protect, restore and enhance the sites , buildings, and objectives of 
significant historical and cultural importance to H awai‘i” 
/boxshadowdwn Hamakua  – “diversify the economic base and enhance histori cal aspects of the area 
including existing ranching operations and the form er sugar industry” 
/boxshadowdwn North Kohala  – “Support efforts to promote small business devel opment that is 
consistent with the rural, agricultural and histori c character of the area” 
Maui  
 
/boxshadowdwn Hana – “Preservation and enhancement of the current land  use patterns, which establish 
and enrich the Hana Community Plan region’s unique and diverse qualities” and “a 
balanced local economy, which provides long-term vi ability and sustainability while 
meeting residents’ needs and respecting the cultura l and natural resources of Hana” and 
“identification, preservation, protection and where  appropriate restoration of significant 
cultural resources and practices that provide a sen se of history and identity for the Hana 
region.” 
/boxshadowdwn Makawao/Pukalani/Kula  – “The maintenance and enhancement of Upcountry’s unique 
and diverse rural land use character with sensitivi ty to existing land use patterns, natural 
resource values, and economic and social needs of t he region’s residents and “a stable 
and diverse economic environment which supports a l evel of community prosperity in 
order to provide social services and environmental amenities and which respects the 
region’s rural and agricultural lifestyle, open spa ce and natural resources.” 
/boxshadowdwn Pa‘ia/Ha‘iku – “A well-planned community that preserves the regi on’s small town 
ambiance and rural character…” and “a stable econom y that complements the rural 
character of the region and provides opportunities for economic diversification and 
community needs” and “attractive rural town develop ment in keeping with the existing 
scale, form and character of settlement areas in th e region.” 
 
Läna‘i – Whole Island  
 
/boxshadowdwn “Maintain and enhance Läna‘i’s rural atmosphere, re specting its vast open space 
character and small island town environment which a re unique in the State of Hawai‘i.” 
/boxshadowdwn “Create a stable and diverse economic climate which  is consistent and compatible with 
Lana‘i’s rural island lifestyle.” 
/boxshadowdwn “Preserve and enhance the unique urban design chara cter of Läna‘i through 
consideration of planning, land use and design stan dards which respect the island’s rural 
plantation history.” 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 27 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Moloka‘i – Whole Island  
 
/boxshadowdwn “A balanced local economy which provides preferred employment levels, long term 
viability and sustainability while meeting resident ’s needs, respecting cultural and natural 
resources, and is in harmony with Moloka‘i’s rural quasi-subsistence lifestyle.” 
/boxshadowdwn “Preservation, enhancement and appropriate use of c ultural resources, cultural practices 
and historic sites that provide a sense of history and define a sense of place for the 
island of Moloka‘i.” 
/boxshadowdwn “The continued practice of subsistence as a part of  the Moloka‘i lifestyle which 
incorporates and fosters the traditional and cultur al values of conservation, malama ‘aina 
and ‘auwana.”  
O‘ahu:  
 
/boxshadowdwn Ko’olauloa  – “Maintain the region’s rural character” 
/boxshadowdwn Ko’olaupoko  – “is a mixed community of rural and suburban area s.  Within the 
agricultural areas “encourage small lot agricultura l use and prevent conversion of 
agricultural lands to non-agricultural uses.” 
/boxshadowdwn North Shore  – “Preserve and protect the rural character and na tural features and setting 
of the region by establishing ‘rural’ forms of deve lopment and subdivision standards, in 
contrast to existing urban standards” 
/boxshadowdwn Wai‘anae  – “No increase in land designated for residential uses,” and “provide zoning 
and tax incentives for people to farm the land” 
 
Kaua‘i  
 
All Areas – “promote and preserve open agricultural  lands as a key element of Kaua‘i’s rural 
character and lifestyle” 
 
Overall, there are many communities throughout the State with aspirations to maintain a rural 
lifestyle consistent with an agricultural economic base and respect for historical and cultural 
sites. 
 
 
 
  Rural Economic Development Report  Page 28 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 KAUPUNAHAMAKUA
NORTH KONASOUTH HILONORTH
HILOSOUTH
KOHALA
SOUTH
KONANORTH
KOHALADP Area Boundaries
Census Blocks (various colors)Legend
 LIHUEWAIMEA-KEKAHANORTH SHORE
KAPAA-WAILUA
KOLOA-POIPUHANAPEPE-
ELEELEDP Area Boundaries
Census Blocks (various colors)Legend Rural Economic Development Report  Page 29 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 EWACENTRAL OAHU
WAIANAE
KOOLAUPOKOKOOLAULOA
PRIMARY URBAN CENTER
EAST HONOLULUNORTH SHOREDP Area Boundaries
Census Blocks (various colors)Legend
   HANALAHAINA
MAKAWAO-PUKALANI-KULAPAIA-HAIKU
KIHEI-MAKENAWAILUKU-KAHULUI
KAHOOLAWEDP Area Boundaries
Census Blocks (various colors)Legend
 
   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 30 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 SSuummmmaarryy  ooff  DDeemmooggrraapphhiicc  aanndd  EEccoonnoommiicc  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  ooff  RRuurraall  AArreeaass  
 
Within the boundaries defined by the Community Deve lopment Plans, SMS defined 
corresponding Census tracts and block groups as mar ked with red lines in the previous map.  
Using these census tracts and block groups, SMS was  able to gather social and economic data 
for each of these areas from the 2000 Census.  Thes e are provided in the document “Rural 
Economic and Social Characteristics” in Appendix C.   There are some challenges with this data:  
First, because it is at the block group level, the most recent data is from 2000; and second, the 
type of information that can be gathered is limited  compared with the narrower scope offered by 
the Census tract or Zip code level.   
 
With the block group Census data, the first level o f review was to compare the differences 
between urban and rural housing units.  This was a simple first cut based on population per 
square mile.  The areas with greater rural populati ons were similar to those areas noted earlier 
in the discussion of definition of rural.  Based on  this review and related statistics, the following 
community development plan areas were identified as  being rural in nature: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Hawai‘i Island:  North Kohala, South Kohala, Ka‘u, Puna and Hamakua Coast. 
/boxshadowdwn Maui Island:  North Shore, East Maui and Upcountry  
/boxshadowdwn Läna‘i:  The entire island 
/boxshadowdwn Moloka‘i:  The entire island 
/boxshadowdwn O‘ahu:  Ko‘olauloa, Ko‘olaupoko, North Shore and Wa i‘anae. 
/boxshadowdwn Kaua‘i:  North Shore, Kawaihau, Koloa, West side, W aimea 
 
With these broad areas defined as rural, it was dec ided to examine these areas further and 
identify smaller community groupings.  Therefore Zi p code areas within the community 
boundaries were identified to gather information th at was meaningful to understand the nature 
of these areas.  Note: The most recent economic and  demographic information at the Zip code 
level was available for the year 2000.  The datashe ets for these communities are available in 
Appendix D. 
 
In reviewing the data, several key indicators revea led that many rural communities appear to 
have characteristics that are inconsistent with a h ealthy community and were different from 
overall statewide averages. The indicators used to analyze these communities ranged from 
general demographic data such as age and household size, to education levels, to poverty 
levels, and mean travel time to work.  
 
 
PPaarraalllleellss  bbeettwweeeenn  RRuurraall  AArreeaass  aanndd  SSttaatteewwiiddee  AAvveerraaggeess  
 
Demographic indicators such as, the median age, pro portion of age ranges, and average 
household and family size for rural areas were simi lar to statewide averages, which means 
there are equivalent proportions of age distributio ns between rural and statewide populations. 
Furthermore, the average family and household size of rural areas were similar to statewide 
averages in family and household size. Those classi fied with a “disability status” were also 
similar for both rural areas and statewide averages . 
 
Rural areas and statewide averages were similar in the following indicators: median age, 
distribution of populations by age, household size,  family size, and disability status.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 31 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 DDiissppaarriittiieess  bbeettwweeeenn  RRuurraall  AArreeaass  aanndd  SSttaatteewwiiddee  AAvveerraaggeess  
 
The data reveals significant differences in some in dicators that demonstrate the challenges that 
rural areas face.  Rural areas have on average a lo wer median household income and lower per 
capita income than the statewide average.  Addition ally, there are greater proportions of 
individuals and families living below the poverty l ine in rural areas compared to the statewide 
average. 
 
In the labor force, there is a higher proportion of  employment and consequently, a lower rate of 
unemployment for the state compared to rural areas.  Furthermore, rural areas are often limited 
in the variety of jobs they attract.  There are hig her levels of workers classifying their occupation 
as farming, fishing, and forestry in rural areas as  compared to the state as a whole. 
Furthermore, due to limited local job opportunities , rural areas face longer commutes to 
employment than the statewide average.  A longer co mmute time means less time spent at 
home in their community for people who commute from  rural areas. 
 
Next, rural areas tend to have lower education leve ls as indicated by the lower number of 
individuals with their high school or bachelor’s de grees as compared to the state’s average.  
Moreover, statewide there are on average a higher p roportion of foreign languages spoken in 
the home as compared to rural areas. 
 
Rural areas, however, do tend to have higher propor tions of owner occupied homes and 
consequently, lower renter occupied homes than the statewide average. 
 
Finally, a description of highlights and challenges  are shown below. 
 
/boxshadowdwn Highlights:   Rural areas do tend to have higher levels of owne r occupied homes and 
workers in the farming, fishing, and forestry indus tries, than statewide averages. 
 
/boxshadowdwn Challenges:   Rural areas do tend to have lower education level s, higher 
unemployment, lengthier travel times to work, and h igher poverty levels than 
statewide averages. 
 
 
EEvvaalluuaattiioonn  ooff  SSppeecciiffiicc  ZZiipp  CCooddee  AArreeaass  
 
Hawai‘i Island  
 
The Puna district has an exceptionally high level o f families and individuals living below the 
poverty level. The district is comprised of Keaau, Kurtistown, Pahoa, and Mountain View; their 
poverty levels are listed below.  Pahoa in fact has  the highest rate of poverty rate among any 
area on the Island of Hawai‘i. 
 
  Families below the Poverty Level Individuals belo w the Poverty Level 
Keaau    17%     19% 
Kurtistown   16%     21% 
Pahoa    23%     29% 
Mountain View  9%     12% 
Statewide Average  7.6%     10.7%  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 32 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Also on Hawai‘i Island, the Hamakua district has a noticeably higher level of families and 
individuals living below the poverty level than the  statewide average. Hamakua is comprised of 
Ookala, Paauilo, Papaaloa, Papaikou, and Pepeekeo; their poverty levels are listed below. 
 
  Families below the Poverty Level Individuals belo w the Poverty Level 
Ookala    9%     12% 
Paauilo   9%     12% 
Papaikou   11%     13% 
Pepeekeo   16%     20% 
Statewide Average  7.6%     10.7% 
 
 
In the Ka‘u district, high poverty levels are compo unded with lengthy travel times.  The district is 
comprised of Pahala, Ocean View, and Na‘alehu; thei r mean travel time to work and 
unemployment data is below.  The data suggests that  a deficiency in employment opportunities 
exist in the area, considering both the relatively high unemployment rates and high mean travel 
times to work.  Consequently, this lack of opportun ity results in a higher than average level of 
poverty for the area. 
 
    Mean Travel Time   Unemployment 
Pahala    31 minutes     12% 
Ocean View   60.2 minutes     6% 
Na‘alehu   33.8 minutes     11% 
Statewide Average  26.1 minutes     3.8% 
 
 
Maui County  
 
In East Maui, the Hana area has an exceedingly high  level of poverty; 16 percent of all families, 
comprising 18 percent of individuals, live below th e poverty level.  These include the highest 
poverty levels found on Maui Island; only Moloka’i has a higher level of poverty in Maui County. 
Hana’s isolation from the rest of the island create s various barriers and may be a factor in 
explaining the high proportion of those employed in  the agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting 
industry (11%). Notably, the area has one of the hi ghest rates of self-employment (20%), much 
higher than the statewide average (7.6%). This high  rate of self-employment may be significant 
in explaining the abnormality of low unemployment ( 4%) and high poverty levels.  
 
The Island of Moloka‘i has the highest rates of pov erty of all the Hawaiian Islands.  Moloka‘i is 
comprised of four main areas: Kaunakakai, Hoolehua,  Maunaloa, and Kalaupapa; their poverty 
levels are listed below. Similarly to Hana, due to the island’s isolation, the area employs more 
workers in the agriculture industry (Kaunakakai 10% , Hoolehua 9%, Maunaloa 15%) than the 
statewide average (2.3%).  
 
  Families below the Poverty Level Individuals belo w the Poverty Level 
Kaunakakai   16%     22% 
Hoolehua   14%     17% 
Maunaloa   29%     34% 
Statewide Average  7.6%     10.7%  
 
*Kalaupapa was omitted due to its unique characteri stics and issues.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 33 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 The Island of Läna‘i also struggles with higher pov erty levels, but because of the role of the 
major employer on the island, Castle and Cooke, thi s poverty level is not as severe as in Hana 
or on Moloka‘i: 
 
Families below the Poverty Level Individuals below the Poverty Level 
All Island   8.5%     9.2% 
Statewide Average  7.6%     10.7%  
 
 
O‘ahu  
 
Although O‘ahu is the most developed of all the Haw aiian Islands, many regions are falling 
behind economically.  With high levels of poverty, the Wai‘anae Coast on O‘ahu is an example 
of this lack of development.  Wai‘anae has higher l evels of poverty at 20 percent for families and 
22 percent for individuals, than the statewide aver age of 7.6 percent and 10.7 percent, 
respectively.  A significant indicator for this lev el of poverty is the unemployment rate and the 
mean travel time to work.  The rural areas and thei r mean travel time to work and 
unemployment rates are shown below.  These indicato rs represent a lack of nearby 
opportunities, and often it is this proximity that impedes success in these rural areas.  Location 
close to an urban environment can be a benefit for employment but may become an issue if the 
community is unable to retain its rural characteris tics as the urban area grows in size. 
 
    Mean Travel Time   Unemployment 
Wai‘anae   41.9 minutes     9% 
Hau‘ula    40.5 minutes     7% 
Ka‘a‘awa    43.0 minutes     6% 
Statewide Average  26.1 minutes     3.8%  
 
 
Kaua‘i  
 
The Island of Kaua‘i has a higher level of poverty than the state’s average.  The island’s 
economy is not well diversified and highly dependen t on a few industries such as tourism and 
agriculture.  While this can be beneficial to these  rural areas during prosperous times, it can be 
detrimental when tourism slows or when agriculture wanes.  
 
  Families below the Poverty Level Individuals belo w the Poverty Level 
Kilauea   11%     12% 
Anahola   14%     15% 
Kapa‘a    12%     13% 
Kealia    38%     35% 
Kekaha   11%     11% 
Makaweli   25%     37% 
Waimea   8%     12% 
Statewide Average  7.6%     10.7%  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 34 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Overview  
 
Many rural communities in Hawai‘i suffer economic c onditions that are detrimental to a healthy 
thriving community.  Indicators of these conditions  include: greater levels of individuals and 
households in poverty, higher levels of unemploymen t, and longer commute times.  Using these 
indicators as a starting point, the communities not ed above would benefit from economic 
development. 
 
 
EEXXPPEERRTT  IINNSSIIGGHHTTSS  OOFF  RRUURRAALL  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  IINN  HHAAWWAAII‘‘II  
 
SMS conducted interviews with the following fifteen  individuals involved at the Federal, State 
and County levels with issues related to rural econ omic development.  From these interviews, 
SMS was able to identify key elements specific to r ural challenges and opportunities. 
 
Name Title/Organization 
 
Diane Ley  
State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency – USD A 
 
Robert Agres  
Executive Director, Hawai‘i Alliance for Community 
Based Economic Development 
 
Ruby Edwards  
DBEDT Office of Planning 
 
Gail Fujita  
Economic Development Administration 
 
Irene Lam  
USDA Rural Development 
 
Randy Kurohara  
Director, Hawai‘i County Office of Economic 
Development 
 
Jacqui Hoover  
Executive Director, Hawai‘i Island Economic 
Development Board 
 
George Costa  
Director, Kaua‘i Office of Economic Development 
 
Mattie Yoshioka  
President & CEO, Kaua‘i Economic Development Board 
 
Deidre Tegarden  
Coordinator, Maui Office of Economic Development 
 
Jeanne Skog  
President, Maui Economic Development Board 
 
Stacy Crivello  
President, Moloka‘i Enterprise Community 
 
Ann Chung  
Director, C&C Honolulu Office of Economic Developme nt  
 
Pono Shim  
President & CEO, Enterprise Honolulu 
 
Joe Lapilio  
Wai‘anae Coast Coalition  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 35 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 DDeeffiinniittiioonn  ooff  RRuurraall  
 
Most experts interviewed had a broad sense of what “rural” means – typically, rural meant 
anything that is not urban.  Some experts quote pop ulation per square mile statistics, however 
for the most part the following was considered the rural designations by island: 
 
/boxshadowdwn On Hawai‘i Island:  everywhere except Kailua-Kona a nd parts of Hilo 
/boxshadowdwn On Maui – everywhere but Kahului/Wailuku, Lahaina a nd K īhei  
/boxshadowdwn Moloka‘i & L āna‘i – all rural 
/boxshadowdwn On O‘ahu – everywhere except the urban core of Hono lulu, from Hawai‘i Kai through 
Kapolei, and maybe through Campbell Industrial Park . 
/boxshadowdwn On Kaua‘i – everywhere (sometimes including and som etimes not including L īhu‘e) 
 
These definitions are very similar to those defined  earlier using the definitions of the Census 
and community development plans. 
 
 
PPrroobblleemmss  iinn  RRuurraall  CCoommmmuunniittiieess  
 
The experts interviewed had a fairly common percept ion of the problems exhibited by rural 
communities that are consistent with the data: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Higher unemployment and fewer job opportunities wit hin the community; 
/boxshadowdwn Higher levels of poverty; 
/boxshadowdwn Higher prevalence of substance abuse. 
 
 
CChhaalllleennggeess  aanndd  IIssssuueess  iinn  RRuurraall  CCoommmmuunniittiieess  
 
The following is a list of challenges brought up co nsistently by the experts interviewed.  The 
major factors are economic challenges, the inabilit y of the community to come together, the lack 
of vision and capacity in the community, and basic needs that are not being met. 
 
/boxshadowdwn Downturn in the economy affecting tourism and relat ed jobs that affects rural areas 
particularly hard. 
/boxshadowdwn Agriculture challenges for small farmers –  
o Hard to organize, hard to acquire land, expensive t o market; 
o Resistant to the process to acquire Federal Funds; 
o Farmers want leases with big landowners, but landow ners would prefer to deal with a 
Coop; 
o Limited access to markets, isolated from world mark ets, lost local market. 
/boxshadowdwn Divisions within communities 
o Vocal minority (newcomers) are adamant that nothing  change; 
o Inability for communities to come together to reach  consensus;  
o Small vocal groups derailing processes.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 36 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 /boxshadowdwn Lack of vision within communities 
o Communities do not believe they can make a change, that they have the power 
within themselves; 
o Communities do not come forward to ask for assistan ce, need for outreach. 
/boxshadowdwn Communities have insufficient capacity 
o Lack of business skills; 
o Limited sense of entrepreneurship; 
o Limited access to training and funding. 
/boxshadowdwn Insufficient access to healthcare, education, invol vement in civic functions 
/boxshadowdwn Long history of high unemployment creates a mindset  in some rural communities that is 
difficult to overcome 
/boxshadowdwn Transportation/distance issues between where employ ees live (affordable housing) and 
where the jobs are currently located (Hawai‘i, O‘ah u) 
o Bedroom communities have no self identity; 
 
Note:  There is some disagreement as to whether or not a “bedroom community” is really a rural 
community. 
 
 
TTrreennddss  aanndd  OOppppoorrttuunniittiieess  
 
The primary opportunities for rural areas were iden tified within the agriculture and ranching 
industries particularly with the state working towa rds greater food sustainability.  This was 
followed closely by alternate energy development su ch as wind power, solar energy or 
geothermal power.   
 
/boxshadowdwn Agriculture and Ranching 
o Farming, food sustainability, buying local; 
o Ranching – Slaughterhouse, processing plant (Hawai‘ i, Kaua‘i); 
o Aqua-culture (Hawai‘i); 
o Ag-Tourism. 
/boxshadowdwn Alternate energy development, renewable energy 
/boxshadowdwn Science & Technology (Hawai‘i – telescopes, Univers ity of Hawai‘i Hilo) 
/boxshadowdwn Health sector – continuum of care (Moloka‘i) 
/boxshadowdwn Commercial kitchen (Moloka‘i) 
/boxshadowdwn Conservation 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 37 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 CCoommmmuunniittiieess  tthhaatt  NNeeeedd  AAssssiissttaannccee  ffoorr  RRuurraall  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  
 
The following are rural communities that could sign ificantly benefit from economic development 
assistance as identified by expert interviews.  In general these are also the same communities 
identified by the economic characteristics noted in  the economic data analysis. 
 
Hawai‘i Island  
/boxshadowdwn Puna; 
/boxshadowdwn Hāmākua; 
/boxshadowdwn Ka‘ ū. 
Maui County  
/boxshadowdwn Hāna, Ke‘anae; 
/boxshadowdwn Moloka‘i; 
/boxshadowdwn Lāna‘i. 
O‘ahu  
/boxshadowdwn Wai‘anae Coast; 
/boxshadowdwn Kahuku. 
Kaua‘i  
/boxshadowdwn All except for Po‘ip ū, Princeville. 
 
 
CCoommmmuunniittiieess  wwhheerree  PPoossiittiivvee  CChhaannggee  wwaass  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  MMoorree  PPoossssiibbllee  
 
During the interviews, experts were quick to identi fy communities where assistance was 
needed, however, the challenge was identifying thos e communities, which could realistically 
make positive changes happen.  The communities with  the greatest potential for change were 
those where community members demonstrated they cou ld work together and reach consensus 
(there was not always agreement on this as noted be low).  These communities are listed below. 
 
Hawai‘i Island  
/boxshadowdwn South Kona (CDP bringing the community together); 
/boxshadowdwn Ka‘ ū. 
Maui County  (there was disagreement whether or not these two c ommunities could actually 
reach consensus toward any type of plan) 
/boxshadowdwn Moloka‘i; 
/boxshadowdwn Hāna. 
O‘ahu  
/boxshadowdwn Kahuku – Community already coming together; 
/boxshadowdwn Wai‘anae. 
Kaua‘i  
/boxshadowdwn Westside – due to seed company and military support ing economic development. 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 38 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 OOvveerrvviieeww  ooff  RRuurraall  CCoommmmuunniittiieess  
 
The following communities were selected for the thi s project based on SMS criteria:  
 
(1) Defined as rural;  
(2) Aspire to retain rural characteristics as descr ibed in their County Community Development 
Plans;  
(3) Contain economic and demographic indicators of a community in need of rural economic 
development assistance; and  
(4) Communities where positive change was considere d more possible by community experts. 
 
Hawai ‘i Island  
/boxshadowdwn Puna 
/boxshadowdwn Hamakua 
/boxshadowdwn Ka‘u 
/boxshadowdwn North Kohala 
/boxshadowdwn South Kona  
 
Maui County  
/boxshadowdwn Hana 
/boxshadowdwn Moloka‘I 
/boxshadowdwn Lana‘i 
 
O‘ahu  
/boxshadowdwn Wai’anae 
/boxshadowdwn North Shore 
 
Kaua ‘i 
/boxshadowdwn All areas except: 
o Po‘ipu 
o Princeville 
o Lihu’e 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 39 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 PPAARRTT  TTWWOO::    BBEESSTT  PPRRAACCTTIICCEESS  FFOORR  RRUURRAALL  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS  
 
 
BBAACCKKGGRROOUUNNDD  
 
The purpose of this report is to analyze rural deve lopment in Hawaii from the community 
perspective and identify the obstacles that impede rural economic success.  Within this context, 
this report intends to develop materials that clear ly describe recommendations and next steps 
for rural economic development in Hawai'i.  This st ep in this process investigates successful 
rural economic development practices both in Hawaii  and throughout the world.  It is important 
to examine these best practices, not to duplicate t heir efforts, but to adapt successful strategies 
applicable to Hawai’i.  Rural communities in Hawai’ i are unique and care must be taken to 
ensure that development strategies are not merely “ imported” but are instead modified to suit 
the local development needs of their respective com munities. 
 
Below are two objectives this section of the report  will cover. 
 
1. Describe & identify programs, projects, “best pr actices”, tools and techniques which would 
be useful and applicable to Hawai‘i’s rural areas a nd which will meet the objectives of 
retaining rural character and lifestyle, while prot ecting/promoting traditional culture.  The 
intent of this section is to provide broad based st rategies for rural development. 
 
2. Provide in-depth case studies to use as examples  of successful rural economic 
development.  These case studies are to provide spe cific instances of struggle and success 
while adding to the narrative of rural development.    
 
 
PPrroocceessss  OOvveerrvviieeww  
 
SMS undertook a major research effort into rural ec onomic development searching for “best 
practices” nationwide and worldwide that could serv e as a guide to review and explore efforts 
within the State of Hawai‘i.  In addition, intervie ws were conducted with organizations in Hawai‘i 
that support rural economic development efforts inc luding:  Kamehameha Schools, Office of 
Hawaiian Affairs and The Hawai‘i Farm Bureau.   
 
This phase of the project was approached in a syste matic manner: 
 
/boxshadowdwn The first section provides highlights of different approaches that communities have used 
for successful rural economic development.   
/boxshadowdwn The second section describes an overview of the pro cess these successful rural 
communities went through. 
/boxshadowdwn The third section lists some of the challenges that  communities face when they go 
through the economic development process.   
/boxshadowdwn The fourth section provides examples of successful rural development efforts in Hawaii. 
/boxshadowdwn Finally, this report covers in-depth case studies t o analyze rural communities which have 
undergone successful rural development while also r etaining their rural character and 
identity.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 40 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 TTYYPPEESS  AANNDD  LLEESSSSOONNSS  FFOORR  RRUURRAALL  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  EEFFFFOORRTTSS  
 
Although no community in the world is exactly like those found in Hawai’i, the following 
examples provide learning opportunities that may be  tailored to fit the unique conditions of 
Hawai’i’s rural communities.  They offer general st rategies for successful rural projects; later 
sections provide in-depth examples from successful projects in Hawai’i as well as case studies 
of two local projects and one mainland example. 
 
 
““CCrreeaattiivvee  EEnntteerrpprriissee  CClluusstteerr””  99  
 
This approach builds upon unique arts and/or crafts  skills within a community.  This approach 
supports the heritage and traditional culture of an  area that is a goal of this project.  
Characteristics of this approach include: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Designate a lead Small Business Development Center for creative enterprises. 
/boxshadowdwn Support networks and networking. 
/boxshadowdwn Bundle arts and design with entertainment and cultu ral tourism.  
/boxshadowdwn Embed art and design in education.  
/boxshadowdwn Make greater use of community colleges.  
 
Examples of this Approach: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Handmade in America  
“A non-profit organization promoting craft and cult ure for community and economic 
development in western North Carolina. Serves as a support system for craftspeople and 
the crafts industry.”  See also case studies. 
 
/boxshadowdwn Project Row Houses  
“A neighborhood-based nonprofit art and cultural or ganization in Houston’s Northern Third 
Ward, one of the city’s oldest African-American com munities.” The program encourages: 
Quality Education, Strong Neighborhoods, Preserve l ocal character. 
 
 
““RReeggiioonnaall  AAggrriiccuullttuurree  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  PPrrooggrraammss””1100  
 
For communities with a strong agricultural base, th is is an approach that has worked.  This 
approach works with farmers and businesses to ensur e a stable marketplace for their products. 
 
/boxshadowdwn Ensure marketing outlets for regional growers. 
/boxshadowdwn How regional agriculture development campaigns func tion 
o The formation of regional agricultural associations  – Farmers, restaurateurs, food 
retailers. 
                                                
9  http://casfs.ucsc.edu/education/instruction/tdm/dow nload/5.3_Buy_Local.pdf  
10   http://casfs.ucsc.edu/education/instruction/tdm/dow nload/5.3_Buy_Local.pdf   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 41 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 o The development of regional produce and product lab els. 
o The development of business relationships between r egional producers and retail food 
enterprises. 
o Labels identifying regional products are displayed in participating food enterprises and at 
farmers’ markets. 
o Non-profit organizations or regional agriculture as sociations promote the purchase of 
regional food products through advertisements in lo cal media. These advertising 
campaigns are designed to educate consumers about t he benefits of buying regionally 
produced commodities and to profile businesses and growers within the membership 
association. 
o Create websites with “food maps” where buyers can v iew where their food is grown. 
 
 
““AAggrroottoouurriissmm  aanndd  RRuurraall  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt””1111  
 
“The Power of Clusters” of interesting sites, activ ities, and events that can only be accomplished 
on a regional basis through cooperation.”  Area nee ds to be accessible by a sufficient number of 
potential customers. 
 
Events Such as: Agricultural Festivals, Antique Sto res, Bed and Breakfasts, Farmers Markets, 
Mazes, Petting Zoos, Roadside markets, Scenic Byway  Tours, Wineries, Camping, Ecosystem 
Preserves, Hiking, U pick it farms, Tractor Pulls/H ay rides. 
 
Examples of this Approach:  
 
Uplands Wine Trail. Launched in 2004, consists of s even Indiana wineries, which tourists can 
travel between, staying in bed and breakfasts, eati ng at local restaurants, and shopping along 
the way. 
 
 
““RRuurraall  LLeeaaddeerrsshhiipp  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt””1122  
 
One of the challenges that face rural communities i s the lack of skilled leadership to bring the 
community together to move in new directions.   
 
Challenges unique to rural leadership development i nclude: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Due to the limited scale of local government, rural  communities often have to rely on an all-
volunteer leadership base. 
/boxshadowdwn Philanthropic funding is extraordinarily difficult to obtain. For example, there is little 
corporate or foundation support for rural leadershi p development.  
/boxshadowdwn Most leadership training does not result in true ca pacity building for small communities. In 
the typical model, an individual is sent away for a  week to a university-based program 
outside of the rural area. This individual is then expected to come back and be the 
leadership for the community. 
                                                
11   http://www.ibrc.indiana.edu/IBR/2006/fall/article3. html  
12   http://www.pewpartnership.org/pdf/01_rural_leadersh ip.pdf   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 42 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 What type of organization within a community is req uired to facilitate and coordinate the 
changes that are required for development to occur?  “Getting the Idea to Fly” 
 
/boxshadowdwn You need to “build a container” for your revitaliza tion efforts.  Formally organizing a non-
profit that becomes the permanent organization, the  place to coordinate day-to-day activities 
and store financial information. It is the mechanis m that allows your community to sustain its 
work and gives your program a life beyond “Fred and  Bobby having coffee and talking.” As a 
nonprofit organization, it will also help you acces s funds. 
/boxshadowdwn Look for places where you can achieve small success es, and then build on the momentum. 
It’s easier to motivate volunteers (and publicize y our efforts) by racking up a list of small 
successes, rather than set the bar too high and fai l to reach your goal. 
 
 
““SSuuppppoorrttiinngg  RRuurraall  EEnnttrreepprreenneeuurrsshhiipp””1133  
 
Communities can attract entrepreneurs given adequat e infrastructure and support – or- 
communities can identify entrepreneurs from within and provide them with the support to 
overcome obstacles.  
 
/boxshadowdwn Investment in High Quality Intermediaries 
/boxshadowdwn The premise is that policies to promote rural entre preneurship have to address two 
economic realities: limited opportunities to achiev e economies of scale, and the need to 
identify and exploit comparative advantage. 
/boxshadowdwn Obstacles to Rural Development 
o The small size and low densities of rural communiti es. 
o The social and economic composition of rural commun ities. 
o The nature of internal and external linkages. 
/boxshadowdwn Opportunities for Development 
o Products that project traditions of quality, crafts manship, connectedness with nature, and 
a sense of place and culture. 
o Quality of life and natural beauty offered by many rural communities, which are attracting 
entrepreneurs to relocate from congested and pressu red cities. 
 
 
““AAlltteerrnnaattiivvee  EEnneerrggyy””1144  
 
Alternate energy such as solar or wind can have two  benefits for a community:  jobs and/or 
lower cost of energy.  For communities that have in dustries with high-energy needs, lowering 
the cost of energy could significantly increase eco nomic return and provide some new jobs for 
the community.  In Hawaii, most communities are loo king at alternate energy as a source of jobs 
and to earn revenues by selling energy however ther e is a question of whether or not wind or 
solar farms are consistent with retaining a traditi onal rural environment.  Another use of 
                                                
13   Source: Dabson, Brian. Supporting Rural Entrepren eurship . http://www.cfed.org/  
 
14   http://www.windustry.org/what-are-some-more-resourc es-for-work-in-wind   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 43 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 alternate energy is for these new sources to comple ment other community efforts to bring the 
cost of supplying the energy for these communities down. 
 
/boxshadowdwn Rural Energy For America Program Grants (REAP Grant s) 25% of project cost, $50,000 for 
project studies. 
/boxshadowdwn Wind Energy 
o Hawaii is ranked 20 th  by state in wind capacity. 
o 85,000 direct jobs in 2008 with 500,000 direct and related jobs by 2030. 
o The National Renewable Energy Laboratory estimates a 20MW plant creates 41 jobs 
and $4M in local income. 
o Iowa Public Policy Project:  
 
Iowa Public Policy Project 
Number of Turbines 650 
Megawatts Produced (MW) 1,554,785 MW 
Jobs Directly Created 65 
Jobs Indirectly Created 787 
Value of Output $175.83 Million 
Labor Income $  26.29 Million 
Jobs Created per Turbine 1.3 Jobs 
Income per Turbine $310,966/ Turbine 
Jobs per MW 0.000548 Jobs 
Value per MW $113.09 
 
o Fox Islands, Maine: $14 million (30% tax credit). 1 1,600 MWH, 3 Turbines. Provides 
power to 2,000 residents.  Fox Islands, Maine: $14 million (30% tax credit). 11,600 
MWH, 3 Turbines. Provides power to 2,000 residents.  
/boxshadowdwn Solar Energy 
o An “average” solar plant in Colorado employs 130 em ployees. 
o Arizona Solar Energy and Economic Outlook: 
 
Arizona Solar Energy and Economic Outlook 
Forecast Year 2010  2015  2020  2025  2030  
Megawatts (MW) Produced 13.4 227.4 1194.9 3276.4 43 37.8 
Jobs Directly Created 1 20 104 276 355 
Jobs Indirectly Created 2 46 237 644 843 
Value Added $300,000 $4,200,000  $21,400,000  $57,000,000 $73,300,000 
Jobs per MW 0.22 0.29 0.28537953 0.28 0.27 
Value per MW $22,388 $18,470 $17,909 $17,397 $16,89 8 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 44 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 CCOOMMMMOONN  PPRRAACCTTIICCEESS  FFOORR  SSUUCCCCEESSSSFFUULL  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
Based on the studies and interviews a simplistic de scription of what it takes for any type of 
successful community project is described below: Ap pendix E contains a complete summary 
overviews of the selected “best practices”. 
 
Realistic 
SWOT of the 
community Leadership from w/in 
the community 
Community 
Buy-in/Support Capital/Resources 
Funding Successful 
Community  
Project 
Community 
Development of a Plan 
 
 
 
The diagram is a circle, because the “pieces” may e nter the process at different times – it’s not 
necessarily sequential.  In essence a leader (or a group) takes a realistic view of the strengths 
and weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) of  their community.  They identify an 
opportunity that builds on the strengths of the com munity and overcomes weaknesses (which is 
often economic distress) and find funding to capita lize on the opportunity.  Usually at this stage 
funding is in the form of government loans or gover nment/non-profit grants.  Community support 
is generally built during this process, but sometim es occurs after the project is seen as 
successful.     
 
An example of this initial phase include: 
 
HandMade in America  – Western North Carolina is blessed with its locat ion because the 
placement of major Interstate highways makes it wit hin a day’s drive of 50% of the population of 
the US.   However, much of the land is unsuitable f or economic investment due to extensive 
holdings by corporations and utilities, watershed r estrictions and a desire to conserve the Blue 
Ridge Mountain area.  A major strength and opportun ity for the area was a strong tradition of 
handcrafts.   
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 45 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 A planning process was funded by a three-year organ izational grant from the Pew Partnership 
for Civic Change in response to a grant request fro m Community leaders who were planning the 
revitalization of the Asheville community.  The reg ional planning process involved 360 citizens 
to help determine how to establish Western North Ca rolina as the center of handmade objects 
in the nation.  In 1996 the Small Town Revitalizati on Program began. 
 
Frequently when many see an opportunity, then multi ple successful projects can build within a 
community.   Each project goes through a similar pr ocess and implements their plan.  The best 
is when planning occurs together and the projects a re linked and support each other. 
 
Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project 
Successful 
Community 
Project 
Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project 
 
 
 
An example: 
 
HandMade in America - the initial process led to another process that est ablished the Blue 
Ridge National Heritage Area.  In this region resid ents, businesses and local governments 
joined together to conserve and celebrate heritage and special landscapes.  Projects and 
programs evolved in tourism, education, and economi c development focused around the 
region’s distinctive agri-heritage, crafts, music a nd Cherokee culture. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 46 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 When do successful projects become successful commu nities?  A community can benefit from 
one or two successful projects and stop.   But thos e communities where the links between the 
projects are the strongest, and where new projects are identified to complement and support 
earlier projects can see the greatest benefit.  In the research this “inner guide” was frequently a 
non-profit created by the community for the purpose  of making the links stronger. 
 
Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project 
Successful 
Community 
Project 
Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project Successful 
Community 
Project Guiding the 
linkages 
 
 
 
Two examples: 
 
HandMade in America - Projects and programs evolved in tourism, education , and economic 
development focused around the region’s distinctive  agri-heritage, crafts, music and Cherokee 
culture.  The website for the area now promotes art ists, Bed & Breakfasts, restaurants and 
activities all designed to give the visitor a bette r experience and to spend more in the area. 
 
The EnergyXchange in the Blue Ridge Mountains .  The weakness is this area was 
conservation and lack of economic prosperity, plus there was a large landfill that had been 
closed that served two counties.  Their strength wa s local creative artists and beautiful native 
plants.  The opportunity was to use the methane gas  from the landfill to develop energy that 
could power craft incubator studios and greenhouses . Initially grants funded the research and 
the construction of the gas collection system and t he arts campus that initially served six artists 
in residence.  HandMade in America was an initial p artner for this non-profit effort, sharing its 
knowledge. The mission of EnergyXchange is to apply  the use of renewable resources and 
practices for educational opportunities and economi c development in the fields of art & 
horticulture. 
 Frequently a non- profit 
selected or created by 
the community  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 47 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Overtime successful community economic development efforts will coalesce and have a marked 
impact on the larger community and if it is grounde d in the desire to retain rural characteristics 
and cultural traditions that will continue to under lie all efforts.  Characteristics of a community 
that has achieved successful economic development a re: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Building a base of leaders  
/boxshadowdwn Build on community strengths with projects that lin k together  
/boxshadowdwn Continuing to grow community support, sometimes to other communities 
/boxshadowdwn Be self-sustaining 
/boxshadowdwn Ongoing development and refinement of community dev elopment plans – think beyond 
the next five years to ten, twenty years in the fut ure. 
/boxshadowdwn Have demonstrated measures of improved economic con ditions and community well 
being. 
 
Build on community 
strengths – Projects 
that link together Growing leadership base 
from w/in the community 
Growing Community 
Buy-in/Support Capital/Resources 
Self Sustaining Successful 
Community 
Economic  
Development Refine & Expand 
Community 
Development Plan 
Improved economic conditions & well being 
 
 
An example: 
 
Outcome measures for HandMade in America  in its first 11 years:  
 
/boxshadowdwn Assisted thirteen small towns 
/boxshadowdwn 238 businesses created  
/boxshadowdwn 79 businesses expanded or enhanced 
/boxshadowdwn 300 new jobs created  
/boxshadowdwn Total economic impact grew from $122 million to $20 6 million 
/boxshadowdwn Attracts tourists 
/boxshadowdwn Represents a clean, sustainable industry that will remain in the region 
/boxshadowdwn Educates the public about the history and heritage of the unique and culturally rich area 
/boxshadowdwn Enhances learning for local elementary, intermediat e, high school and college students.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 48 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 CCHHAALLLLEENNGGEESS  FFAACCIINNGG  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS  TTOO  AACCHHIIEEVVEE  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  
DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
Simple diagrams can be deceiving.  Based on the pro jects studied and Part one of this project 
there are multiple challenges facing communities. 
 
(1) Leadership must come from within the community.   Whether it’s to start a project or begin a 
more extensive planning process, the impetus must c ome from within the community.  To 
identify a leader within the community can be chall enging, because as we looked at the 
characteristics of rural communities in Part one, m ore of the residents had lower education 
levels, in most of the communities there was not an  active business base, and “outsiders” 
were not trusted. 
 
(2) Community buy-in is critical element when begin ning a larger planning process or expanding 
beyond an initial successful project.  In Part one some of the Experts expressed doubts 
whether some of the communities in need could overc ome the presence of naysayers to any 
recommendations for change. 
 
(3) There are multiple funding options for start-up  projects, especially rural projects that have an 
agricultural base.  Funding comes from Federal and State government as well as entities 
such as the Hawaii Farm Bureau.  The challenge with  this funding is that often the “leader” 
is not trained in writing grant requests or is too busy running their operation to take the time 
to prepare the required request.   Plus one project  is the beginning; more is required to 
expand the efforts throughout the community.  Fundi ng is more difficult to obtain for larger 
scale planning processes that could really engage a  community.  One option is Community 
Based Economic Development (CBED) grants, however t hese requests require significant 
time and effort on the part of many members of the community to prepare an acceptable 
packet.  OHA provides some grants through its CBED efforts, however these are mostly 
project-based. 
 
(4) The challenge with economic development efforts  that focus on just projects rather than 
“projects with linkages” is that the project may or  may not become self-sustaining and able 
to grow significantly.  To bring any product or ser vice to market and make it a profitable 
business is a complex process.  For example the cha rt below illustrates the multiple parties 
and planning efforts required just to keep more cat tle in Hawaii to provide locally grown beef 
for Hawai‘i residents. 15    
 
(5) Investment in rural communities requires patien ce and persistence.  All rural development 
initiatives must consider that investment in rural communities typically require longer time 
horizons and payback periods than similar projects in urban areas.  Due to the unique 
challenges rural communities face, attention needs to be paid to development and 
investment over the longer term.  Additionally, sta keholders need to be reassured of this 
long-term orientation in order to ensure project su ccess.  A newly formed project can lose 
momentum if “naysayers” are allowed to disrupt a pr oject’s development.  It can be 
extremely challenging for stakeholders to ensure th at the doubts of “naysayers” are 
separated from legitimate concerns.  Rural developm ent is an ongoing process that requires 
leaders in the community who are willing to invest long periods of time into projects that may 
not see immediate success. 
                                                
15   Prepared by SMS for the Hawai‘i Farm Bureau and H awai‘i Cattlemen’s Council  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 49 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010  
OVERVIEW OF CHALLENGES TO PROVIDE MORE 
HAWAII RAISED BEEF TO HAWAII MARKETS   FAIR 
RETURN TO ALL PARTIES 
PROCESSING COW - CALF 
STOCKER 
FINISHING 
SHIPPING SLAUGHTER 
PROCESSING SHIPPING 
DISTRIBUTION 
DEMAND HOME 
RESTAURAN TLAND 
WATER 
&& &&
Key Issues :
/head2rightNeed for sufficient acreage 
at a fair price of drought 
resistant or irrigation lands to 
accommodate the process 
from calf-cow to finishing in 
Hawaii instead of shipping 
calves to the mainland /head2rightNeed to bring slaughter 
& processing costs lower 
which requires greater 
economies of scale (more 
guaranteed # of quality 
head/week ) 
and newer slaughter & 
processing facilities /head2rightMore beef being 
processed requires a 
larger market therefore 
cost-effective, reliable 
transportation between 
islands is necessary /head2rightNeed to build 
sufficient demand 
for grass-fed, 
locally grown beef 
that will command a 
higher price ENVIRONMENT RANCHING 
 
 
 
The Farm Bureau and the Council are requesting $250 ,000 to develop a plan that 
addresses all of the elements of the process simult aneously.  This would be a similarly 
complex process for any significant agricultural pr oduct grown on the neighbor islands to be 
sold on Oahu or the mainland.  This would again req uire significant cooperative planning 
efforts, which neither farmers nor ranchers have th e time nor resources to invest this 
process.  Therefore the challenge becomes one of ac quiring sufficient resources to facilitate 
the planning process and it has to be done in a way  that all the parties are engaged and buy 
into the process. 
 
 Non-profits and Universities have been relied on i n other communities to facilitate the 
planning process and identify/coordinate the linkag es.  HandMade in America is a non-profit 
for the Western North Carolina region.  This non-pr ofit has guiding principles that are very 
similar to the ones used by the Indiana Rural Recre ation Development Project, and reflects 
much of the guidance received from the interviews c onducted with rural economic 
development leaders in Part one: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Inclusive? All work of HandMade In America is inclu sive. Everyone is welcome to 
participate from the first-time hobbyist to the ful l-time, one-of-a-kind design professional 
craftsmen, and any interested citizen of the region .  
/boxshadowdwn Collaborative? All projects are done in partnership  with other organizations and 
institutions, and all funding is written jointly or  in the partner's name.   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 50 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 /boxshadowdwn Regional? All communities come equally to the table  in resources. Meetings are held 
throughout the region, and board members represent the region.  
/boxshadowdwn Sustainable Community Development? HandMade is sust ainable community 
development. No outside consultants or businesses a re used. The people of the region 
serve as their own best resource. HandMade is focus ed on long-term solutions, hence a 
twenty-year strategic plan.  
/boxshadowdwn Community-Based? All HandMade In America projects a re community-based. Each 
community defines its needs, resources and how it f its into the strategic plan.   
/boxshadowdwn Self-Sustaining? HandMade is self-sustaining. All p rojects must fit into the operation of 
an ongoing institution or organization, or be finan cially self-sustaining. 
 
HandMade in America is a non-profit that grew from a regional planning effort created to 
facilitate ongoing growth through linkages, plannin g and support.  Its principles were 
strengthened over time through work with its commun ities and are community-focused.    Here 
again the supporting players for successful economi c development come from within the 
community. 
 
 
EEXXAAMMPPLLEESS  OOFF  RRUURRAALL  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  EEFFFFOORRTTSS  
 
A challenge for this project has been to identify H awai‘i communities that serve as good 
examples.  Expert interviews have failed to identif y communities that have reached the level of 
showing community outcomes measures improvement, bu t have noted successful projects that 
have the potential to stimulate greater community w ell being and sustain the traditional culture 
of the community.  Note that a community must consi der its culture and tradition a strength that 
it wants to sustain before they will work to protec t that tradition.  However, two examples below 
are projects that could grow to impact the whole co mmunity. 
 
 
MMAA‘‘OO  FFaarrmmss  
 
The Waianae Community Re-Development Corporation (W CRC), is the non-profit that created 
MA‘O Organic Farms.  As you will see in the overvie w below the non-profit that created MA‘O 
Farms has many of the same positive characteristics  for successful community economic 
development as described earlier in this document, it just hasn’t developed to a point where we 
can point to changes in the indicators of the econo mic strength of the community.  The lack of 
community-level indicators may be due to its relati ve young age (starting in 2000) and is still in 
the formation period. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 51 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 History  
 
The community of Wai‘anae is located on the west si de of the island of Oahu and consists of six 
major ancient land divisions.  
Waianae Community Re-Development Corporation (WCRC)  created the MA‘O Community 
Food Security Initiative in 2000. The focus was to address the important needs of the youth and 
community and work for a more self-reliant and sust ainable Hawaii. 
During the last eight years, the WCRC Board of Dire ctors has been involved and emphasized 
leadership.  The organization has been able to inno vate in challenging areas while still making 
progress upon past endeavors.  The efforts to empow er youth and families through community 
based economic development initiatives’ continue to  be rooted in the values of the community. 
 
Overview of Organization  
 
Waianae Community Re-Development Corporation (WCRC) , a federally recognized 501 c 3 
nonprofit organization.  
 
Budget: 
 
Farm sales currently support 40% of the entire budg et; this is equal to the support received from 
grants.  Private donations and fundraisers support the remaining financial needs of the 
organization.   
 
Mission, Goals and Guiding Principles 
 
The goal was to build a strategy that would impact five critical areas of need: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Out-of-school youth 
/boxshadowdwn Sustainable economic development 
/boxshadowdwn Agriculture 
/boxshadowdwn Health 
/boxshadowdwn Hawaiian culture 
 
The core values that support and sustain the MA’O C FS Initiative are:  
 
/boxshadowdwn EA:  To build on individual and community assets to  create new local jobs and local 
businesses, increasing the capacity to be self-suff icient 
/boxshadowdwn KAKO‘O:  To provide diverse experiences and opportu nities, which mentor, educate and 
employ, where creativity and expression are nurture d 
/boxshadowdwn KOKUA:  To promote diverse cooperative approaches t o work and business that build 
community connections 
/boxshadowdwn ‘OHANA:  To work with the entire ‘ohana for optimum  individual, family and community 
health 
/boxshadowdwn HO‘OMALU: To encourage and live by Hawaiian values which build a peaceful 
community. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 52 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Strengths & Weaknesses, Opportunities & Threats  
 
Strengths & Weaknesses: 
 
Waianae is recognized as the most food insecure reg ion of Hawaii‘ with native Hawaiians 
having the highest rates of preventable disease inc luding diabetes, heart disease and some 
cancers. 
 
Food Security is the ability to acquire food that i s safe and nutritious in a socially acceptable 
way.  Food Insecurity is associated with poor healt h, extreme stress, decreased work output 
and school performance, and may be related to viole nce or crime.  
 
According to MA’O Organic farm’s research and stati stics, there is an estimate of 221,834 
individuals, 19.2%, of Hawaii residents who live in  food insecure households. There is an 
estimate of 53,384 in hungry households and Hawaiia ns, other Pacific Islanders, and Filipinos 
are disproportionately affected. The highest risk o f food insecure community is Waianae at 
33.2% and only 22% of food insecure households (in 2000) received any food stamp 
assistance.  
 
Opportunities & Threats: 
 
The community of Waianae’s location is considered t o be isolated and rural. Because of its 
geographic location, the community mirrors the cons iderable political, economic, social, and 
cultural barriers facing families, especially for y outh.   
 
According to Waianae residents, they have also witn essed the continued gradual over 
development of scarce resources such as land and wa ter and the negativities of urbanization. 
 
Above all of the difficulties, Waianae residents st ill maintain a rural vision. The community also 
boasts fertile soils, an abundance of ocean and mar ine resources, land suitable for agricultural 
production, and commercial areas ripe for business activity. Waianae still possesses a 
community that has a strong cultural tradition of w orking closely with the land. 
 
Desired Outcomes  
 
MA‘O Organic Farms: 
A 5-acre certified organic farm, producing and sell ing over twenty-five different varieties of high-
quality organic fruits and vegetables.  
 
‘Ai Pohaku Workshop: 
A hands-on, culturally based program at Wai‘anae In termediate that nurtures youth and families 
through traditional Hawaiian agriculture and food p ractices.   
 
Ka‘aihonua: 
A hands-on, learning organic garden at Wai‘anae Hig h School that studies contemporary 
agriculture science in the context of traditional H awaiian culture and knowledge.  
 
Youth Leadership Training: 
A hands-on, entrepreneurial–agricultural–educationa l leadership experience in which interns 
earn an Associate of Arts degree from Leeward Commu nity College.   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 53 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Waianae Organic Ag Center: 
A partnership with Leeward Community College and U. S. Department of HUD to establish and 
expand expertise in the fields of tropical organic agriculture. 
 
Past Projects  
In December 2007, MA‘O received support from the St ate’s Legacy Lands Conservation 
Program, combined with funds from a private foundat ion, which will enable their purchase of 11-
acres next door to the current location.  The group  intends to grow their youth programs by 
producing more fresh, local, organic fruits and veg etables. 
 
Current Projects  
By 2011, the farm will be supporting almost two-thi rds of the entire organization budget, 
supporting dozens of youth through college, and ass ist hundreds of young people entering their 
pipeline of education-culture-entrepreneurial exper iences.  This will also pave the way for 
increased employment opportunities and industry dev elopment in the statewide community food 
movement.  
 
 
MMaakkuu’’uu  FFaarrmmeerrss  AAssssoocciiaattiioonn  
 
Another organization in Hawai‘i that is making a po sitive contribution toward community 
development in Hilo is Maku‘u Farmers Market Corpor ation.  Maku‘u offers a different 
perspective from MA‘O Farms in that much of its wor k to date has been to build community 
strength through its support of community farmers b y developing a distribution system for their 
produce and flowers.   
 
History  
 
The Maku’u Farmers Association’s primary function i s to serve the residents on Hawaiian 
homelands in Maku’u, in the district of Puna. A tim eline of the organization is below. 
 
1986 - Department of Hawaiian Home Lands awarded ap proximately 127 Native Hawaiians 
2 or 5 acre agricultural leases. 
1995 - Groundbreaking ceremony for phase 1 of infra structure. 
1996 - Infrastructure finished. 
2000 - DHHL Approves master plan for community cent er. 
2001 - Maku‘u Farmers Market Officially Opens. 
2007 - Maku‘u Market Bathroom completed. 
Present - Maku‘u Regional Plan Development. 
 
Overview of Organization  
 
The Maku’u Farmer’s Association is a 501 (c) (3) No n-profit located in Pahoa, Hawaii. The 
mission of the organization is to provide education al and employment opportunities while also 
developing small businesses and also to become self -sufficient as established by the Hawaiian 
Homes Commission Act of 1920.  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 54 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Strengths and Weaknesses: 
 
The organization has strong support from the commun ity and the success of the organization 
lies with the associations’ weekly Sunday farmer’s market. The market serves as a fulcrum for 
the association’s other endeavors: Encouraging entr epreneurship, sustainability, and education. 
The fundamental strength of this organization is th at these endeavors address some of the local 
needs in the area. The market attracts farmers as w ell as local artisans and cultural 
organizations. Furthermore, the market provides a r eason for neighbors to congregate 
promoting local connections, fellowship, and social  capital in the region. The market provides a 
conduit for people to create connections with one a nother which otherwise may not be made. 
 
Another strength of the Maku’u Farmer’s Association  is the educational component of the 
organization that provides for: 
 
/boxshadowdwn Promotion of Hawaiian culture and values while prov iding educational programs for 
students. 
/boxshadowdwn Provides students with educational programs during school breaks. 
/boxshadowdwn Promotes the traditional Hawaiian cultural and valu es with the assistance of our Kupuna 
mentoring our youths thus developing a better under standing and compassion within our 
community (City and County of Hawaii). 
 
Although the farmer’s market is considered successf ul, it is unclear as to the success of the 
organization’s educational components.  
 
Opportunities and Threats 
 
There are significant opportunities for the organiz ation to expand on its projects to fulfill its 
mission. Small businesses could be developed furthe r through mentorship/apprentice programs 
and/or small business loans. Educational programs c ould be enhanced by formalizing their 
programs and/or creating a permanent base.  
 
The primary threat to this organization seems to be  longevity of community involvement. It is 
unclear as to the permanence of the organization an d how well it can sustain itself or evolve 
over time.  
 
Current Projects  
 
The farmers market provides an opportunity for loca l merchants and artisans to market their 
products and services in a friendly atmosphere. Pro ducts vary from produce, food, plants, 
artwork, clothing, and garage sale items. 
 
Maku‘u Farmers Association also provides educationa l opportunities for youth during school 
breaks. These educational opportunities emphasize H awaiian culture and values, incorporating 
Kupuna mentoring and cross-generational interaction . 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 55 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 IINN--DDEEPPTTHH  CCAASSEE  SSTTUUDDIIEESS  OOFF  SSUUCCCCEESSSSFFUULL  RRUURRAALL  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
The objective of this phase of the study was:  to i dentify at least two communities to serve as 
good examples of areas that have retained their rur al character and lifestyle, and at least one 
rural community to serve as a good example of an ar ea that has retained its rural character and 
lifestyle and protected traditional culture.  These  “good examples” shall have relevance and 
potential applicability to Hawai‘i’s situation.  In  conjunction with DBEDT Office of Planning three 
organizations were selected for greater in-depth re view:  Waipa Foundation; the Kohala Center, 
and HandMade in America.  These case studies are in cluded in the following sections. 
 
/boxshadowdwn The development process for each of these case stud ies included the key factors 
described in best practices.  The common elements o f all three of these case studies 
includes: 
 
/boxshadowdwn The foundation of their vision was to retain the ch aracteristics and cultural traditions of 
their communities.  In fact in each of the cases th e history and culture of the area was a 
significant strength that guided their mission, pla ns and implementation.   
 
/boxshadowdwn Each of the organizations engaged in in-depth plann ing processes that engaged 
stakeholders and laid out realistic action plans fo r achieving their vision.  They all 
continue to be community focused. 
 
/boxshadowdwn All three organizations started with small wins tha t led to greater community support and 
have continued to successful grow programs that ben efit the community.  All three now 
have multiple programs that link together to suppor t each other. 
 
/boxshadowdwn The three organizations have benefited from experie nced knowledgeable leaders that 
are from and/or welcomed by the community.  In turn  they are identifying, engaging and 
mentoring staff to broaden the base of leadership o ver time.  
 
/boxshadowdwn All three organizations received initial funding to  develop their plans through 
philanthropic grants – Kamehameha Schools, Five Mou ntain, Pew Charitable Trust.  
 
/boxshadowdwn At this time only HandMade in America has become se lf-sustaining.   
 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 56 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 PPAARRTT  TTHHRREEEE::  RREECCOOMMMMEENNDDAATTIIOONNSS  TTOO  SSUUPPPPOORRTT  RRUURRAALL  
EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
 
Given the best practices, key factors for economic development and challenges facing 
communities the following are recommendations on ho w can agencies and economic 
development boards best assist rural residents in s uccessfully implementing economic 
development efforts that retain rural characteristi cs.   These recommendations reflect the input 
of many leaders in economic development noted in th e list below. 
 
 
SSTTRREEAAMMLLIINNEE  PPOOLLIICCIIEESS  AANNDD  RREEGGUULLAATTIIOONNSS  FFOORR  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  
DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
Policies and regulations need to be streamlined at all government levels in order to support rural 
development.  In addition where regulations and pol icy conflict these should be addressed in 
order to provide opportunities for growth.  Governm ent offices should seek out regulatory and 
policy conflicts while also creating a mechanism fo r their eventual resolution. 
 
 
PPRROOVVIIDDEE  IINNFFRRAASSTTRRUUCCTTUURREE  TTOO  SSUUPPPPOORRTT  RRUURRAALL  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  
DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
A careful inventory of existing infrastructure stre ngths and weaknesses in rural communities 
should be completed in order to assess the current situation.  Infrastructure needs vary from 
island to island and even between rural communities  within an island.  From there encourage 
partnerships that leverage existing infrastructure resources as well as projects that provide for 
additional infrastructure resources.  When the oppo rtunity arises advocate for infrastructure 
development that supports economic development in r ural communities. 
 
 
PPRROOVVIIDDEE  SSUUPPPPOORRTT  SSEERRVVIICCEESS  FFOORR  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTYY  GGRROOUUPPSS  
 
As noted multiple times throughout this study the s eeds of community economic development 
projects cannot be sown by entities outside of a co mmunity; the vision and support for a project 
must come from within.   However, it is likely that  the “seed project groups” may need 
assistance to bring their project to fruition.   
 
a. Offer services that community groups may need:   
i. Provide funding and guidance to implement succes sful planning 
processes including realistically evaluating the st rengths, weaknesses, 
opportunities and challenges for their community an d development of 
detailed action steps to achieve their vision.   Ef forts supported should be 
consistent with County Plans that in most cases mea ns retaining the 
characteristics and traditions of rural areas.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 57 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 ii. Identifying sources of funds for planning and i mplementation – these may 
be grant opportunities, sources for loans, philanth ropic connections, 
government loan programs;   
iii. Identify potential partners and linkages – gro ups in other parts of the 
island, county or state that may be/have undertaken  something similar;   
iv. Leadership and management training;  
v. Skills training such as grant writing, building a coalition, managing 
volunteers, marketing, etc. 
 
b. Bring groups together to learn from each other.  Frequently start-up groups go 
through similar growing pains.  If multiple communi ties are undertaking efforts, 
bring them together to share experiences and learn from each other.  Likewise 
inviting speakers from projects that have been succ essful will add to the 
knowledge base of attendees. 
 
c. When the community’s vision is similar to one de scribed in “Best Practices” 
recommend that group connect with the organizations  listed to learn more and 
potentially overcome pitfalls. 
 
 
BBUUIILLDD  AAWWAARREENNEESSSS  OOFF  SSEERRVVIICCEESS  AAVVAAIILLAABBLLEE  TTOO  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS  
 
Every interview and case study reiterated that the vision and leadership for economic 
development efforts must come from within the commu nity.  However, it will be necessary for 
these new groups to be aware of the services that a vailable to them to grow their vision into 
reality.  Primary targets should be those rural com munities with indicators of economic distress. 
 
a. Promote services available to rural communities through county council member 
offices or state representatives or senators.  Thes e offices generally know key 
leaders within their communities who can serve as r eferral sources. 
 
b. Promote services via websites so communities can  access the latest information 
and who to contact for additional assistance.  Conc urrently, this access needs to 
be accessible to rural citizens and not create unne cessary inconvenience and 
intimidation.  Access to this information needs to progress beyond “Frequently 
asked questions” pages and forms/applications but t o be truly a gateway to the 
users’ requests.  Internet sites should incorporate  decision trees and simplified 
pathways to navigate the users to their appropriate  needs. 
 
c. Encourage service providers to incorporate bette r outreach to community groups.  
These service providers may need to rethink their p ortals of information in order 
to effectively reach their intended audience.   
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 58 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 SSUUPPPPOORRTT  EENNTTRREEPPRREENNEEUURRSSHHIIPP  IINN  TTHHEE  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS  
 
One of the challenges that face rural communities i s an insufficient number of knowledgeable 
and experienced entrepreneurs who have new ideas an d can bring the community together to 
move in new directions.    Best practices and stake holder recommendations offer the following 
options: 
 
a. Encourage and support the development of a non-prof it organization to ”house” 
efforts within a community and become the place to coordinate day-to-day 
activities and raise funds to implement action step s.  Focus on achieving small 
successes with a smaller group of supportive commun ity members who share 
the same vision, then build on the momentum.  
 
b. Recommend a process to identify and recruit qualifi ed community members who 
may have moved out of the community to return and b e a part of the economic 
development efforts.   
 
c. Develop a mentorship program for potential entre preneurs who have the vision 
and passion but perhaps lack the skills and connect ions to turn their ideas into 
reality.  Connecting entrepreneurs with mentors who  understand the challenges 
and can recommend actions based on experience will help minimize 
implementation challenges.  Sometimes there are gap s in skills training and 
entrepreneurs sometimes need one-on-one relationshi ps where they can be 
walked through the process of creating a start-up. 
 
d. Create “Anchors to Agriculture” or programs to s upport stable markets for 
agricultural producers.  Often there is a problem o f both “getting the farmer to 
believe there is a market” while concurrently getti ng “markets to believe in the 
farmers’ ability to supply consistent quantity and quality”. 
 
e. Often entrepreneurs in rural areas lack the appr opriate skill set.  Successful 
agricultural start-ups require skills beyond the da ily operations skill set.  Skills 
such as finance, marketing, business management ski lls are needed to create 
successful projects.  Many rural entrepreneurs, for  instance, could not bridge the 
gap between a promising idea and a viable business plan, 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 59 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 AAPPPPEENNDDIICCEESS  
AAppppeennddiixx  AA  ––  DDeeffiinniittiioonn  ooff  RRuurraall  
 
 
Definitions of Rural Areas 
 
The Building Blocks for Defining Rural 
  Advantages Disadvantages 
 
Counties  
County boundaries represent political 
jurisdictions and remain stable over time  
County size varies substantially across the 
United States, and larger counties include 
both urban and rural areas 
 
Zip Code Areas  
Zip code areas are easy to implement with 
programs that rely on provider or beneficiary 
address  
Because Zip codes areas are designed for 
postal purposes, Zip codes change frequently 
from year to year 
 
Census Geography  
Census geography represents the smallest and 
most precise geographic unit  
Census tract definitions can be hard to 
implement, because census geography 
information is not commonly used by 
programs and payers 
 
Commonly Used Rural Definitions 
 Definition Definition Description Geographic 
Unit Used 
 
U.S. Census Bureau:  Urban  and 
Rural Areas  
The Census Bureau’s classification of rural consist s of all territory, population, and 
housing units located outside of urbanized areas an d urban clusters. Urbanized areas 
include populations of at least 50,000, and urban c lusters include populations between 
2,500 and 50,000. The core areas of both urbanized areas and urban clusters are 
defined based on population density of 1,000 per sq uare mile and then certain blocks 
adjacent to them are added that have at least 500 p ersons per square mile. 
  
Census Block and Block 
Groups 
 
Economic Research Service, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture & 
WWAMI Rural Health Research 
Center:  Rural-Urban Commuting 
Areas (RUCAs)  
This classification scheme utilizes the U.S. Census  Bureau’s urbanized area and cluster 
definitions and work commuting information. The RUC A categories are based on the 
size of settlements and towns as delineated by the Census Bureau and the functional 
relationships between places as measured by tract-l evel work commuting data. This 
taxonomy defines 33 categories of rural and urban c ensus tracts. 
  
Census Tract, Zip Code 
approximation available 
 
U.S. Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB): Core Based 
Statistical Areas (i.e., Metropolitan 
and Non-metropolitan areas) 
  
A metropolitan area must contain one or more centra l counties with urbanized areas. 
Non-metropolitan counties are outside the boundarie s of metropolitan areas and are 
subdivided into two types, micropolitan areas and n on-core counties. Micropolitan areas 
are urban clusters of 10,000 or more persons.  
County 
 
Economic Research Service, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture:  Rural 
Urban Continuum Codes (Beale 
Codes)  
This classification scheme distinguishes metropolit an counties by the population size of 
their metropolitan area, and non-metropolitan count ies by degree of urbanization and 
adjacency to a metropolitan area or areas. All coun ties and county equivalents are 
grouped according to their official OMB metropolita n non-metropolitan status and further 
subdivided into three metropolitan and six non-metr opolitan groupings. 
  
County 
 
Economic Research Service, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture:  Urban 
Influence Codes  
This classification scheme subdivides the OMB metro politan and non-metropolitan 
categories into 2 metropolitan and 10 non-metropoli tan categories. Metropolitan 
counties are divided into two groups by the size of  the metropolitan area. Non-
metropolitanmicropolitan counties are divided into three groups by their adjacency to 
metropolitan areas. Non-metropolitan-non-core count ies are divided into seven groups 
by their adjacency to metropolitan or micropolitan areas and whether they have their 
“own town” of at least 2,500 residents. 
  
County 
 
Office of Rural Health Policy, U.S. 
Department of Health and Human 
Services:  RUCA Adjustment to 
OMB Metropolitan and Non-
metropolitan Definition 
  
This method uses RUCAs 4-10 to identify small towns  and rural areas within large 
metropolitan counties. In addition, census tracts w ithin metropolitan areas with RUCA 
codes 2 and 3 that are larger than 400 square miles  and have population density of less 
than 30 people per square mile are also considered rural.  
Census Tract within 
OMB Metropolitan 
Counties  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 60 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 
 
 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 61 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 
 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 62 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010  
Alternative* Version 2.0 Rural-Urban Commuting Area s (RUCAs) Code Descriptions 
 
 
 
 
1 Metropolitan area core: primary flow within an Ur banized Area: UA 
1.0 No additional code 
1.1 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a larger UA 
 
2 Metropolitan area high commuting: primary flow 30 % or more to a UA 
2.0 No additional code 
2.1 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a larger UA 
 
3 Metropolitan area low commuting: primary flow 10%  through 29% to a UA 
3.0 No additional code 
 
4 Large rural area core: primary flow within an Urb an Cluster of 10,000 through 49,999: large UC 
4.0 No additional code 
4.1 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a UA 
4.2 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a UA 
 
5 Large rural high commuting: primary flow 30% or m ore to a large UC 
5.0 No additional code 
5.1 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a UA 
5.2 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a UA 
 
6 Large rural low commuting: primary flow 10% throu gh 29% to a large UC 
6.0 No additional code 
6.1 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a UA 
 
7 Small rural town core: primary flow within an Urb an Cluster (UC) of 2,500 through 9,999 (small UC) 
7.0 No additional code 
7.1 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a UA 
7.2 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a large UC 
7.3 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a UA 
7.4 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a large UC 
 
8 Small rural town high commuting: primary flow 30%  or more to a small UC 
8.0 No additional code 
8.1 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a UA 
8.2 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a large UC 
8.3 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a UA 
8.4 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a large UC 
 
9 Small rural town low commuting: primary flow 10% through 29% to a small UC 
9.0 No additional code 
9.1 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a UA 
9.2 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a large UC 
 
10 Isolated small rural areas: primary flow to a tr act outside a UA or UC (including self) 
10.0 No additional code 
10.1 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a UA 
10.2 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a large UC 
10.3 Secondary flow 30% through 49% to a small UC 
10.4 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a UA 
10.5 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a large UC 
10.6 Secondary flow 10% through 29% to a small UC 
 
* In this version the term “Large Rural” replaces “ micropolitan” and “small town” is replaced with “sm all rural town”.  UA=Urbanized Area; UC=Urban 
Cluster; University of Washington Rural Health Rese arch Center 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 63 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 64 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010  
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 65 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 AAppppeennddiixx  BB  --  RRuurraall  EEccoonnoommiicc  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  ––  CCoouunnttyy  GGeenneerraall  &&  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  PPllaannss  
 
(see attached) 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 66 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 AAppppeennddiixx  CC  ––  EEccoonnoommiicc  &&  DDeemmooggrraapphhiicc  CChhaarraacctteerriissttiiccss  ooff  RRuurraall  aanndd  UUrrbbaann  AArreeaass  bbyy  
CCeennssuuss  BBlloocckk  GGrroouupp  
 
(see attached) 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 67 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 AAppppeennddiixx  DD  ––  EEccoonnoommiicc  &&  DDeemmooggrraapphhiicc  CChhaarraacctteerriissttiiccss  ooff  RRuurraall  AArreeaass  bbyy  ZZiipp  CCooddee  
 
(see attached) 
 
 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 68 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 AAppppeennddiixx  EE  ––  MMoorree  DDeettaaiillss  ooff  ““BBeesstt  PPrraaccttiicceess””  PPrroojjeeccttss  
 
HandMade in America  
 
1. History 
 
HandMade in America was founded in 1993 with a beli ef that economic revitalization wasn't 
necessarily tied to luring "modern" industry to the  region but in making known the hidden 
heritage and craftspeople that are so vitally a par t of Western North Carolina. 
 
/head2right Community group leaders who were planning the revit alization of the Asheville 
community formed in the mountains of Western North Carolina.   
/head2right This group realized that the answer to their revita lization plans didn't necessarily lie in 
recruiting "industry", but could possibly be found in the already established in the 
community tucked away throughout the Blue Ridge Mou ntains. 
/head2right 1993, received a three-year organizational developm ent grant from the Pew Partnership 
for Civic Change.  
/head2right Over 360 citizens participated in a regional planni ng process to help determine how 
HandMade could establish Western North Carolina as the center of handmade objects in 
the nation. 
 
History of Blue Ridge National Heritage Area  
 
In 1996 The Blue Ridge Heritage Initiative was esta blished to plan and implement projects that 
demonstrated ways that a regional culture can provi de a focus for preservation, education, and 
community and economic development. Major partners in the Initiative included:  
 
/head2right HandMade in America 
/head2right The North Carolina Arts Council 
/head2right The Blue Ridge Parkway 
/head2right The Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians 
/head2right The North Carolina Folklife Institute 
 
Between 1996 and 1998 over 50 public meetings were conducted throughout the region to allow 
community residents the opportunity to share herita ge projects. 
 
Blue Ridge National Heritage Area   
 
In 2002 Heritage Area legislation was introduced in  The U.S. House and Senate. The Bill was in 
June 2002 by representatives of HandMade in America  and Advantage West, a regional 
economic development agency. Passage of H.B. 1759 i n November 2003 gave designation to 
The Blue Ridge National Heritage Area and provision  of $500,000 for first year funding. 
 
In 2003 Congress designated 25 counties in Western North Carolina as the Blue Ridge National 
Heritage Area. A National Heritage Area is a region  in which residents, businesses, and local 
governments have joined together to conserve and ce lebrate heritage and special landscapes.  
Projects and programs in tourism, education, and ec onomic development will be focused 
around the region's distinctive agri-heritage, craf t, music, and Cherokee culture. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 69 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 2. Overview of Organization 
 
(A) HandMade in America is a nonprofit organization   
 
(B) Serving the mountains of western North Carolina  with the aim of creating community and 
economic development opportunities based on the reg ion’s cultural, historical, and natural 
assets. 
 
(C) HandMade in America Staff: 
 
/head2right Elizabeth Russell - Interim Executive Director   
/head2right Jenny Moore - Associate Director   
/head2right Norma Bradley - Director of Education   
/head2right Betty Hurst - Director of Rural Entrepreneurship   
/head2right Donna Abranches - Director of Operations   
/head2right Megan Williams - Administrative Assistant   
/head2right David Quinn - Small Towns Program Coordinator   
/head2right Janiece Meek - Development Director   
 
(D) The HandMade in America Community Development P rogram is partially funded by The 
North Carolina Community Development Initiative.  
 
(E) HandMade's Mission, Goals, and Guiding Principl es Measuring the appropriateness of their 
programs and projects, their twenty-year goals lead  the way in:  
 
/head2right Developing community strategies that will collectiv ely enhance Western North Carolina's 
role nationally and internationally within the hand made field. 
/head2right Establishing an academic base to promote crafts thr oughout all levels of education as 
objects, subject and process.  
/head2right Developing a communications plan that establishes W estern North Carolina's role as the 
center for HandMade in America.  
/head2right Implementing environmentally sustainable economic s trategies for Western North 
Carolina that emphasize the handmade industry.  
/head2right Implementing strategies that will enhance opportuni ties for handmade object makers 
within Western North Carolina, and encouraging the public, private and nonprofit sectors 
to develop independent and interdependent vehicles that build the handmade industry. 
 
HandMade also focuses for facilitating new markets and new relationships between craft artists 
and design professionals, as well as providing supp ort for civic ventures and entrepreneurial 
endeavors in rural Western North Carolina. 
 
/head2right HandMade has often been cited for community solutio ns. The organization has recently 
established the HandMade Institute for the Creative  Economies to help answer the 
question, "How do you do it?" 
/head2right In the group’s 12th year, they are known for innova tion and their ability to forge unique 
and productive partnerships.  
/head2right The HandMade in America Community Development Progr am is partially funded by The 
North Carolina Community Development Initiative .  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 70 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 /head2right HandMade is a nationally recognized, multidimension al institution that has sparked 
initiatives and creative collaborations in educatio n, small town revitalization and 
community development, economic development, enviro nmentally sustainable strategies 
and enhanced opportunities for makers of the handma de object, heritage tourism, and 
incorporating crafts into building design and furni shing. 
 
“We don't teach crafts-making, or make or sell obje cts, but we do serve as a support system for 
craftspeople and the craft industry.” 
 
HandMade in America’s Guiding Principles are consis tently valuable in structuring programs 
and the benefit of the region and to the accomplish ment of their mission. 
 
For every question or opportunity posed, the organi zation asks: Is it...  
 
/head2right Inclusive? All work of HandMade In America is inclu sive. Everyone is welcome to 
participate from the first-time hobbyist to the ful l-time, one-of-a-kind design professional 
craftsmen, and any interested citizen of the region .  
/head2right Collaborative? All projects are done in partnership  with other organizations and 
institutions, and all funding is written jointly or  in the partner's name.  
/head2right Regional? All communities come equally to the table  in resources. Meetings are held 
throughout the region, and board members represent the region.  
/head2right Sustainable Community Development? HandMade is sust ainable community 
development. No outside consultants or businesses a re used. The people of the region 
serve as their own best resource. HandMade is focus ed on long-term solutions, hence a 
twenty-year strategic plan.  
/head2right Community-Based? All HandMade In America projects a re community-based. Each 
community defines its needs, resources and how it f its into the strategic plan.   
/head2right Self-Sustaining? HandMade is self-sustaining. All p rojects must fit into the operation of 
an ongoing institution or organization, or be finan cially self-sustaining. 
 
3. Strengths & Weaknesses, Opportunities & Threats 
 
Strengths & Weaknesses    
 
Every region and community has its unique gifts and  challenges. In Western North Carolina, 
one of those gifts is their extraordinary, rich her itage of handcraft. As they explored how to 
bolster their economy and preserve that heritage, t hey considered their geography and how the 
land is used. The region, by itself, is larger than  eight states in the continental U.S. 
 
Western North Carolina is blessed with location at a critical gap in the Appalachian Range from 
the southeast to the Midwest plateau. Served by I-4 0 and I-26 and bounded by I-85 and I-77, 
the area is within one day's drive of 50% of the Am erican populace. The major highways run 
east and west through the gaps of the mountain with  only the Blue Ridge Parkway running north 
to south and serving as the region's connector. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 71 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Opportunities & Threats   
 
Much of the land is unsuitable for economic investm ent, due to extensive holdings by 
corporations and utilities, watershed restrictions and a desire to conserve the steep slopes, 
which occupy more than 50% of the 7,310,547 acres. 
 
Western North Carolina serves as the watershed for most of the Southeast because of the 
abundant precipitation, which is second only to the  Pacific Northwest.  
 
The great Appalachian Mountain Range, which runs fr om Canada to Georgia, reaches its peak 
in Western North Carolina. Here the range is at its  widest point at 150 miles. Of the 46 
mountains over 6,000 feet, in the Eastern United St ates, 34 are located in the region. The 
mountains are the oldest, born in the Jurassic Peri od, more than a quarter billion years ago. 
 
Economic impact of this industry  
 
In 1995, HandMade in America, in association with r esearchers at the John A. Walker College 
of Business at Appalachian State University, conduc ted a survey to measure the economic 
contribution of crafts in 22 counties in Western No rth Carolina.  
This survey, The Economic Impact of Crafts revealed  that crafts, contributed $122 million 
annually to the region's economy. That figure is fo ur times the revenue generated from burley 
tobacco, the state's number one cash crop.  
 
The survey also revealed some of the challenges and  needs of the craft community, including 
access to capital and marketing and business educat ion services. 
 
4. Outcome Measures for this Organization 
 
Since the start of the Small Towns Revitalization P rogram in 1996, HandMade has served 13 
small towns in Western North Carolina where: 
 
/head2right 238 new businesses have been opened 
/head2right 79 businesses have been expanded or enhanced 
/head2right 300 new jobs have been created 
/head2right Helping to accomplish these objectives, volunteers have worked over 184,000 hours in 
service to their communities.   
/head2right Total annual economic impact of $206.5 million in 2 007, an increase from $122 million in 
1995 16  
o Craft Artists $86,200,000 
o Craft Consumers $31,500,000 
o Craft Retail Galleries $57,700,000 
o Craft Schools $11,800,000 
o Craft Non-profit Organizations $4,400,000 
o Craft Suppliers and Publishers $15,000,000 
/head2right Attracts tourists, one of the region’s main sources  of revenue 
/head2right Represents a clean, sustainable industry that will remain in the region  
/head2right Educates the public about the history and heritage of the unique and culturally rich area  
/head2right Enhances learning for local elementary, high school  and college- level students  
 
                                                
16   Source: Data conducted and analyzed by DESS Busin ess Research in 2008.  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 72 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 5. Past Projects  
 
(A) EnergyXChange  
 
HandMade established the EnergyXChange Incubator Pr ogram through a partnership with 
the Blue Ridge Resource Conservation & Development Council and Mayland Community 
College. This unique program is designed to support  entrepreneurs in starting, managing, 
and operating new businesses in crafts (glass and c lay) and horticulture.  The site includes 
fully equipped studios for glass and clay, a visito r's center, an aquaponics center, three 
greenhouses for the horticulture component, and a p ublic craft gallery. 
 
A second landfill project dedicated to wood is unde rway in Avery County. This project will 
use landfill methane gas to power a wood drying kil n and studio incubators for wood turners 
and furniture makers.  
 
www.energyxchange.org or call (828) 675-5541.  
 
(B) Madison County Partnership  
 
HandMade in America is one of several partners in a  project called the Madison County 
Partnership funded by The Duke Endowment Program fo r the Rural Carolinas.  
 
The Duke Endowment Program for the Rural Carolinas has funded almost 30 projects 
across North and South Carolina for the purpose of:  
 
(1) Increasing employment, income and wealth for th ose left behind by the economy 
and  
(2) Building the leadership, assets and structures necessary for long-term economic 
renewal. 
 
The goals with Madison County Partnership all revol ve around improving the livelihoods of 
farmers, craftspeople, and other very small busines ses. The major strategies are listed 
below: 
 
/head2right Madison Farms - After a thorough inventory of all t he farms in the county, the group 
helped create an on-line presence for more than 90 farmers. 
/head2right Madison Count Yarts - After a through inventory of the artists and craftspeople, 
HandMade are helping create a revised website that is searchable. 
/head2right Agri Tourism Speaker Series - From the inventory, H andMade helped identify and 
develop a network of farmers and related businesses  interested in agritourism efforts 
in the county. 
/head2right AgriTourism Farm Tours - HandMade has conducted a n umber of farm tours for the 
media, visitor’s center staff, tourism officials an d county agritourism participants. 
/head2right Very Small Business Directory of Madison County - H andMade published this 
directory of mostly farmers and craftspeople.  
/head2right Madison Celebrates Art! Festival - HandMade celebra tes the annual festival in 
September in downtown Marshall. Craftspeople and sp ecialty farmers alike offered 
their creations for sale and exhibit. 
/head2right Marketing 101+ Workshop - HandMade produced an annu al all day marketing 
workshop at AB Tech in Marshall.   
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 73 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 (C) The Home of The Perfect Christmas Tree 
 
Residents of Mitchell County are beginning to use t heir cultural assets and history to 
develop an entrepreneurial approach to economic dev elopment through the development 
and marketing of locally produced products as well as to provide added support to the 
county’s cultural tourism industry. This project wi ll be known as "The Home of The Perfect 
Christmas Tree."  
 
The purpose of this project is to identify business  development opportunities and to market 
new products created by Mitchell County craftspeopl e.  
 
(D) Other past endeavors include:  
 
/head2right Creation of a crafts and business skills training p rogram with Penland School of Craft 
and Mayland Community College  
/head2right Implementation of a loan fund with the Self Help Cr edit Union  
/head2right Heritage Gardens at the North Carolina Arboretum  www.ncarboretum.org  
/head2right Stecoah Weavers www.visitsvcenter.com   
/head2right “By Our Hand” Traveling Exhibit  
/head2right Center for Craft Creativity and Design  www.craftcreativitydesign.org   
/head2right Craft Industry Studies  
/head2right Clingman Avenue/WestEnd 
 
6. Current Projects 
 
(A) HandMade in America Sourcebook - Handcrafted Ar chitectural Elements  
 
HandMade in America’s Sourcebook Handcrafted Archit ectural Elements subtitled A 
Collection of WNC Craftspeople and Their Original W orks, springs from HandMade’s 
mission of creating awareness for craft artists liv ing and working in the mountains of North 
Carolina.  
 
There are close to 70 craft artists listed, in a lo ose-leaf, binder-held collection of individual 
profiles and images of installed work.  
 
The five major categories of craft within the volum e are: 
 
/head2right Clay 
/head2right Glass 
/head2right Metal 
/head2right Wood 
/head2right Mixed media 
 
Development and printing of the Sourcebook has been  made possible in part by grants from 
the North Carolina Department of Commerce, the Appa lachian Regional Commission and 
the Asheville Area Merchants Fund of the Community Foundation of Western North 
Carolina.  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 74 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 (B) The HandMade House at the Ramble 
 
Handmade is in partnership with Biltmore Farms, a l eading Western North Carolina real 
estate development company, They are creating a mod el for collaboration between 
residential design and construction professionals a nd the region's best artists and 
craftspeople.  
 
The group invited artists registered with HandMade to come to Biltmore Farms' Ramble 
community to hear a presentation for a Show Home th at have incorporated regional art. 
This was particularly meant anything from a vase to  a built-in architectural element or from a 
landscape design to rugs and wall hangings. The gro up told them they wanted this to be a 
pilot project for collaboration from the earlier st ages of design. 
 
After the announcement, Handmade had proposals from  about 100 artists. The HandMade 
House design teams made tough choices and began not ifying artists they'll be working with 
over the next year to complete the design and const ruction of this unique home.  
 
For information about HandMade's role in the projec t:  
Jenny Moore, 828.252.0121, X-303. 
 
(C) HandMade Quilt Trails  
 
Two of the most widely recognized symbols of rural living, a quilt and a barn, are being used 
to promote tourism in Ohio, Tennessee, Kentucky, an d now in North Carolina. The concept 
is in an effort to entice folks to slow down and en joy a drive through the scenic countryside. 
 
Through a grant from The Blue Ridge National Herita ge Area, several organizations have 
been able to take advantage of the concept that ori ginated in Ohio and have combined their 
efforts to paint colorful replicas of traditional q uilt patterns and display them on rustic barns, 
and businesses throughout the region. 
 
Project Partners: Phase 1 
Toe River Arts Council 
Madison County Arts Council 
Ashe County Arts Council 
 
Energy Xchange 
 
1. History  
 
EnergyXchange first formed in 1999 and received its  tax-exempt status in 2000. The 
EnergyXchange complex includes four greenhouses, th ree cold frames, a retail craft gallery, 
visitor center, clay studio and glass studio. 
 
The idea for EnergyXchange was created through the partnership of three organizations: 
 
/head2right Blue Ridge Resource Conservation and Development Co uncil (BRRC&D) 
/head2right HandMade in America (HandMade) 
/head2right Mayland Community College (MCC)  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 75 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Blue Ridge Resource Conservation and Development Co uncil  
 
BRRC&D began investigating potential uses of the la ndfill gas in 1996. County commissioners 
sponsored the project and asked BRRC&D to conduct r esearch, investigating other locations 
were landfill gas was used successfully. Their rese arch led to a new EPA program called the 
Landfill Methane Outreach Program (LMOP). 
 
Mayland Community College  
 
Recognized for their strong track record for educat ion, community development and 
environmental protection in Western North Carolina.  The partners strategically worked to get the 
EnergyXchange idea and campus going from 1996 until  2000. 
In 1997, MCC began planning the Project Branch Out initiative that would encompass the 
horticultural endeavors at EnergyXchange. Additiona lly, EPA-LMOP agreed to conduct a 
feasibility study on the quality and quantity of me thane in the gas being produced by the landfill. 
Their study determined that the site was commercial ly viable for energy development. 
 
HandMade in America  
 
In 1998, due to the large volume of gas revealed in  the study, HandMade joined the partnership 
to implement the craft business incubators involvin g a clay studio and a glass studio.  
 
On Earth Day 1999 the landfill gas system was activ ated.  By 2001, the campus was complete 
and the first six artists had begun their residenci es. 
 
EnergyXchange has become one of the nation’s model energy recovery projects and is used 
internationally as an example of successful small l andfill gas projects.  The EPA Methane to 
Markets Program included the EnergyXchange project in a 2008 landfill gas workshop in 
Poland. Methane gas from the decomposing trash powe rs ovens for glass blowers, a pottery 
kiln, and supplies radiant heat for the studios and  greenhouse.  
 
2. Overview of Organization 
 
(A) EnergyXchange is a Nonprofit corporation  
 
(B) EnergyXchange is organized by a 15-member Board  of Directors, comprised of 
public officials, business and civic leaders, and r epresentatives of the area.  
 
(C) The mission of EnergyXchange is to apply the us e of renewable resources and 
practices for educational opportunities and economi c development in the fields of 
art and horticulture.  
 
/head2right The “three Es” of EnergyXchange’s local impact are:  Environment, Education, 
and Economics. The programs that facilitate this lo cal impact are the craft 
business incubator program, project branch out, and  the landfill gas system 
itself.  
/head2right Many school groups, civic organizations, government al agencies, and individuals 
interested in alternate energy come to EnergyXchang e for a guided tour. These 
tours provide information on landfill gas, wind ene rgy, and solar energy, as well 
as, horticulture and aquaculture.   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 76 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 3. Strengths & Weaknesses, Opportunities & Threats 
 
(A) Strengths & Weaknesses 
 
EnergyXchange is located in the Black Mountains of Western North Carolina, Yancey and 
Mitchell are two of the state’s most rural counties . The area is rich in cultural, natural, and 
historic assets including the legendary Penland Sch ool of Craft, Mayland Community 
College and Mount Mitchell, the highest peak east o f the Mississippi River. 
 
Residents of Yancey and Mitchell counties were conc erned about conservation and 
economic prosperity. When the landfill that served the two counties was closed in 1994, 
extensive research and a lot of brainstorming gener ated a host of ideas for reuse. 
 
The community came together to create and customize  an appropriate energy reuse for the 
landfill. It is the home to some of America’s most creative artists and beautiful native plants, 
the Yancey-Mitchell landfill seemed the perfect pla ce for developing craft incubator studios 
and greenhouses to cultivate endangered flora while  utilizing the landfill gas. 
 
(B) Opportunities & Threats 
 
EnergyXchange has explored alternate energy resourc es and how to use those resources in 
ways that will make a positive impact on the local economy and environment, as well as, to 
provide educational opportunities.  Initially, land fill gas was the focus for development and use.  
EnergyXchange Has continued to grow and has explore d solar, wind, and wood waste as viable 
fuels for future operation of the EnergyXchange cam pus and continuation of its mission. 
 
4. Current Programs 
 
(A) Craft Studios 
 
The craft incubator program supports entrepreneurs in starting, managing and operating 
new businesses in the crafts of glass blowing and p ottery.  
 
Participants in the program may stay as long as thr ee years and receive training in business 
practices from MCC Small Business Center. The artis ts while at EnergyXchange perfect 
their craft, develop their businesses, and live in the community.  
 
The program supports 2 glass artists and 4 clay art ists. The clay kiln and glass furnaces are 
fired with landfill gas at no additional cost to th e residents. In the creation of their pieces of 
art, the EnergyXchange artists are also helping the  environment and the local economy. 
 
These studios, to EnergyXchange’s knowledge, were t he first in the world to be fueled by 
landfill methane gas, and serve as a model for othe r projects across the country. The landfill 
gas is provided at no additional cost to the reside nt artists, with a projected total savings 
over the life of the project estimated at over one million dollars. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 77 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 (B) Project Branch Out 
 
Project Branch Out began with the strategy to nurtu re small agricultural activities in rural 
western North Carolina. The Appalachian Mountains o ffer an unequaled array of native 
ornamentals.  
 
Project Branch Out helps diversify local crops and propagates endangered species. While 
the area has a rich agricultural history found in b urley tobacco, Christmas trees, woody and 
herbaceous ornamentals, beef cattle and vegtable pr oduction, these two counties have 
experienced declining availability of indigenous pl ants.  
 
EnergyXchange has grown several varieties of evergr een rhododendrons and deciduous 
azaleas from seeds that have been collected locally , and sell them in containers to local 
growers. The best selling and best known native pla nt grown at EnergyXchange is the 
Flame Azalea. The quilt block at EnergyXchange is t itled “Flower of the Woods” and is 
meant to depict the range of colors possible in the  flower of the Flame. 
 
Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians  
 
1. History 
 
Prior to 1970, the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indi ans (MBCI) had a high rate of poverty and 
unemployment. In the next decade the MBCI, under ne w leadership, began by investing in an 
industrial park and attracting manufacturing to the  area. The industrial park soon attracted large 
manufacturing plants from Packard Electric (1979), American Greetings (1981), and Oxford 
Speaker Company (1985). In 1994, MBCI entered the g aming industry and built its first casino, 
the Silver Star Hotel and Casino. Over the next two  decades, the MBCI expanded upon both its 
industrial and gaming facilities, while also develo ping retail and services. In 2006, the Choctaw 
TechParc was opened, a 150 acre business park for t he high tech industry. 
 
2. Overview of Organization 
 
The Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians (MBCI) owns  and manages a consortium of 
manufacturing, service, retail, and tourism enterpr ises (technically a self-governing entity) 
located in Mississippi, the Southeast United States , and Mexico. The MBCI employ nearly 6,000 
people with an annual operating budget of over $100  million. MBCI is one of the ten biggest 
employers in Mississippi.  
 
3. Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities & Threats 
 
(A) Strengths & Weaknesses 
 
MBCI has clear developmental authority over its pro perties; the MBCI is able to zone areas 
and allow development as they see fit, while also e nabling unique conditions such as 
gambling. The MBCI are able to be flexible in encou raging economic development. 
 
Though MBCI development has been successful, employ ers in the area are still able to 
attract industry through low wages. While many Choc taw Indians are able to live a 
comfortable lifestyle, the majority of their employ ees, the non-Choctaw Indians are paid low 
wages.   
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 78 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 (B) Opportunities & Threats 
 
Attracting high tech jobs to the area through the M BCI’s new Choctaw TechParc would be an 
achievement; increasing the number of well paying j obs in the region. 
 
4. Past Projects  
 
The MBCI have pursued numerous development projects : 
 
/head2right Pearl River Industrial Park (1971) 
/head2right Choctaw Residential Center and Nursing Home (1987) 
/head2right Choctaw Shopping Center (1988) 
/head2right Choctaw Forestry Enterprise and Forestry Management  (1989) 
/head2right Silver Star Hotel and Casino (1994) 
/head2right Dancing Rabbit Golf Club (1997) 
/head2right Golden Moon Hotel and Casino (2002) 
/head2right Choctaw TechParc (2006) 
 
5. Current Projects 
 
The MBCI is a fully functional, independent governm ent, which provides basic human services 
such as law enforcement, health, housing, education , and public works. Other development 
projects not normally provided by the public servic es are below: 
 
First and foremost, revenues from the gaming indust ry are used for perpetuating the Choctaw 
culture. Revenues from the gaming industry are also  used for a scholarship program for 
secondary education. The MBCI intends to increase i ts human capital in order to create higher 
paying jobs for their residents. Furthermore, the M BCI is pursing rural development and 
agriculture to encourage Choctaw families to grow t heir own food. 
 
Indiana Rural Recreation Development  
 
1. History  
 
In 1981, Dr. Patrick Long established the Colorado Rural Recreation Development Project at the 
University of Colorado at Boulder.  Rural Recreatio n Development Project was used as a tool 
for community and economic development.  
 
In 1995 the Illinois Rural Recreation Development P roject started at the University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign with a grant from the Kellogg Foun dation. 
   
In August 2005, Indiana Rural Recreation Developmen t Project (InRRDP) was established in 
the Department of Recreation and Sport Management a t Indiana State University in Terre 
Haute, Indiana.   
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 79 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 The InRRDP only works with communities that show me asurable efforts at organizing and 
sustaining new park, recreation, leisure, and touri sm services.   
 
/head2right To achieve measurable and sustainable outcomes, eac h community must have a 
functional organization of concerned citizens and c ommunity leaders that will take long-
term responsibility for the development of sustaina ble services.  Therefore, InRRDP will 
work with any community liaison to identify an exis ting community group or create a new 
group to be responsible for park, recreation, leisu re, and tourism services development 
in the community.  
/head2right The citizen action committee in each community is r esponsible for the decisions and 
actions that take place in their community in relat ion to the development of community 
recreation and park programs, services and faciliti es. The InRRDP prefers to work with 
an existing town park board that is in existence vi a state law.   
/head2right If a community does not have a town park board, the n the InRRDP prefers to work 
directly with the town board or a nonprofit organiz ation that is supported, through board 
membership and public decree, by the town board.  
 
2. Overview of Organization 
 
(A) Rural Recreation Development Project is a nonpr ofit organization that works through the 
Indiana State University. 
 
(B) Rural Recreation Development Project is located  through the Department of Recreation and 
Sport Management at Indiana State University in Ter re Haute, Indiana.  Rural recreation 
development projects also operate in South Carolina  at Clemson University and in West 
Virginia at West Virginia University. 
 
(C) Dr. Nathan A. Schaumleffel, CPRP (Project Found er and Project Director), Tonya Gimbert, 
Graduate Assistant  (Web Designer and Project Suppo rt) 
 
(D) The InRRDP received initial funding from the In diana State University Office of the Provost 
and Vice President for Academic Affairs.  Since the  InRRDP's inception, several people 
have made significant contributions to the evolutio n of the Project. 
 
(E) When a community collaborates with the InRRDP t o develop park, recreation, leisure, and 
tourism services, the following goals are used to w ork towards sustainable  development of 
Community Park and recreation services:  
 
/head2right To find the most effective ways to deliver recreati on services to rural communities.  
/head2right To provide significant work and career development assistance to local youth and to 
build interest in the recreation profession. 
/head2right To help rural communities in Illinois meet immediat e recreation needs and plan long-
term sustainable recreation development.  
/head2right Provides resources to promote sustainability of the  program  
/head2right Provides the Citizen Action Committee members with guidance, training seminars, and a 
resource manual.    
/head2right Assists communities with recreation assessments   
/head2right Assists with selection of Citizen Action Committee members 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 80 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 The InRRDP staff believes in and follows the Commun ity Development Society's (CDS) 
Principles of Good Practice:  
 
/head2right Promote active and representative participation tow ard enabling all community members 
to meaningfully influence the decisions that affect  their lives.  
/head2right Engage community members in learning about and unde rstanding community issues, 
and the economic, social, environmental, political,  psychological, and other impacts 
associated with alternative courses of action.  
/head2right Incorporate the diverse interests and cultures of t he community in the community 
development process; and disengage from support of any effort that is likely to adversely 
affect the disadvantaged members of a community.  
 
Work actively to enhance the leadership capacity of  community members, leaders, and groups 
within the community. 
 
3. Strengths & Weaknesses, Opportunities & Threats 
 
(A) Strengths & Weaknesses 
 
Seventy-five percent of the State of Indiana is geo graphically rural and approximately 
29.2% of the state's population resides in rural ar eas.  
 
Affected by negative economic conditions and jobs b ecoming unavailable, residents of 
the State of Indiana living in rural areas has cont inued to decrease. According to 
statistics there was a 5.9% decrease from 1990 to 2 000.  
 
(B) Opportunities & Threats 
 
Breadwinners find it necessary to move their famili es to metropolitan areas where 
secure, monetarily rewarding work is available.  
 
Due to families leaving rural communities, the mean  age of rural residents is increasing 
causing a need for increased PPR services for older  adults.  
 
4. Past Projects 
 
The InRRDP has successfully assisted communities de velop varying levels of sustainable local 
park, recreation, leisure, and tourism services. Th ose communities are: 
 
/head2right Rockville - the Rockville Park Board administers Re creation and park services.  InRRDP 
assisted the Rockville Park Board with a Recreation  and Leisure Needs Assessment for 
Teens.  The Rockville Park Board used the data from  the needs assessment to build a 
new soccer field at the town park, and the park boa rd planned a Movie in the Park 
special event.  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 81 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 5. Current Projects 
 
Currently, the InRRDP is working with communities t o develop sustainable  community park and 
recreation systems.  Communities currently collabor ating with the InRRDP are:  
 
/head2right Clay City - Harrison Township - Recreation and park  services are administered by a 
variety of non-profit organizations, which include:  the Fair Association, the Youth 
Baseball Association, and the R.E.I.N. Coalition.  The InRRDP is working with the 
R.E.I.N. Coalition to develop a Master Plan for Par ks and Recreation. 
/head2right Clay City Harrison Township Master Plan 
 
PROJECT ROW HOUSES 
 
1. History  
 
Project Row Houses (PRH) was founded in 1993 as a r esult of discussions among African-
American artists who wanted to establish a positive , creative presence in their own Third Ward 
community.  
 
Artist and local community activist dove head first  to the pursuit of this vision as they discovered 
the abandoned 1 1/2-block site of twenty-two shotgu n-style houses in Houston’s Third Ward.  
 
PRH  was inspired by the work of Dr. John Biggars, which  dealt with historic architectural forms, 
and themes relating to the African-American communi ty. Biggars work led to looking at the 
architecture of the row house as a window into comm unity building.  
 
The shotgun houses became the perfect opportunity t o pursue the creation of a new form of art. 
They had two key elements:  
 
/head2right A beautiful form recognized by Houston artist Dr. J ohn Biggers to be filled with 
architectural, spiritual, and social significance 
/head2right A need for social action among the community to bri ng the project to life. 
 
PRH is founded on the principle that art and the co mmunity it creates can be the foundation for 
revitalizing depressed inner-city neighborhoods. Th e mission of Project Row Houses is to create 
a community through the celebration of art, African  American history and culture. 
 
2. Overview of the Organization 
 
Project Row Houses (PRH) is a neighborhood-based no nprofit art and cultural organization. 
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 82 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 Project Row Houses Staff: 
 
/head2right Rick Lowe - Founder  
/head2right Linda Shearer - Executive Director  
/head2right Michael Peranteau - Development  
/head2right Hamdiya Ali - Education Manager  
/head2right Ashley Clemmer Hoffman - Public Arts Manager  
/head2right Assata Richards - YMRP  
/head2right Cheryl Flores - Administrative Assistant  
/head2right Minn Norris - Operations Team Manager  
 
C PRH has established programs that encompass: 
 
/head2right Arts and culture 
/head2right Neighborhood revitalization 
/head2right Low-income housing 
/head2right Education 
/head2right Historic preservation 
/head2right Community service 
 
These programs are inspired by the work of world-re nowned artist Dr. John Biggers and his 
principles concerning the creation of effective com munities, specifically: 
 
/head2right Art and creativity should be viewed as an integral part of life, exemplified in African 
traditions wherein art is interwoven into the very fabric of life through rituals and 
ceremony activities. 
/head2right Quality education is defined through impartation of  knowledge and wisdom - including 
understanding that is passed from generation to gen eration. 
/head2right Strong neighborhoods have social safety nets, woven  by community to support 
community and to raise social responsibility 
 
Good and relevant architecture, meaning housing tha t should not only be well designed, but 
also make sense to preserve a community’s historic character. 
 
3. Strengths & Weaknesses, Opportunities & Threats 
 
(A) Strengths & Weaknesses 
 
Project Row Houses is an arts organization that foc uses on the community as its canvas.  
PRH is positioned as a neighbor, as a partner, as a  developer, as a social services provider 
and, most prominently, as a unique lens magnifying the community’s hidden treasures in 
ways often unexpected. 
 
PHR offers a variety of programming that meets the needs of the community and Houston 
area artists. Utilizing ten of the original 22 shot gun houses, they offer a variety of 
programming for both the emerging, mid-career and e stablished artists.  
 
Project Row Houses focuses to create a positive imp act within the community and how to 
provide an alternative space for the underrepresent ed minority artists of that time.  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 83 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 (B) Opportunities & Threats 
 
There was little positive social action before Proj ect Row Houses started to develop the 
community in Houston. The community was drug-infest ed and neglected and the City had 
already placed the properties on the demolition lis t in an effort to redevelop the area.  
Without community action, the neighborhood-faced ex tinction, similar to Fourth Ward in 
Houston has experienced. The community was filled w ith over 500 structures on the 
National Registry. Currently there are less than tw enty of these properties that exist in the 
Fourth Ward and the demographics have drastically s hifted from low-income African 
Americans to a diverse ethnic mix of middle class r esidents. 
 
The opening of the 16 duplexes within the Hannah pr oject has tripled the residents within 
facilities owned and managed by Row House Community  Development Corporation.  
 
Residents are actively working together to identify  and address shared interests and 
concerns. A subgroup has sprung forth to focus on d eveloping a food co-op and 
Laundromat in the community. 
 
4. Outcome Measures for this Organization 
Project Row Houses’ campus has grown from the origi nal block and a half to six blocks, and 
from 22 houses to 40 properties. PRH has also inclu ded twelve artist exhibition and/or 
residency spaces, seven houses for young mothers, a rtist residencies, office spaces, a 
community gallery, a park, and low-income residenti al and commercial spaces. 
 
In 2003, PRH established the Row House Community De velopment Corporation (RHCDC) 
as a separate, affiliated corporation. It was desig ned to broaden PRH’s focus to preserve 
community, RHCDC addresses housing and related comm unity and economic development 
needs by providing low-income rental housing. RHCDC  has designed and built nine low-
income housing units and is in the process of build ing and acquiring additional property for 
rental and home ownership. 
 
5. Past Projects 
 
(A) Eldorado Ballroom 
 
Renowned Houston architect Lenard Gabert built the Eldorado Ballroom, at Elgin and 
Dowling Streets, in 1939. The owner wanted to estab lish a community entertainment venue 
in the Third Ward. The ballroom, which occupies the  second floor of the massive Eldorado 
Building at 2310 Elgin, was the visual and spiritua l symbol of the community. 
 
Until it closed in the early 1970s, the Eldorado ho sted countless blues and jazz 
performances, weekly talent shows and sock-hops.  
In 1999, the Eldorado Ballroom was gifted to Projec t Row Houses. After four years of 
renovations, the Eldorado re-opened in May 2003 for  its first major event in over 30 years, 
raising $75,000 toward continuing improvements on t he building, and reminding people of 
what this proud institution means to the community.  
  
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 84 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 (B) Row House CDC 
 
Row House Community Development Corporation (Row Ho use CDC) formed in August 
2003 as a sister organization to Project Row Houses . 
 
The Row House CDC development plan envisions mixed- income housing, green space, 
public facilities, artists’ living/studio spaces an d historic preservation. 
Row House CDC builds: 
 
/head2right Creative Community Housing 
/head2right Housing for Low & Moderate Income Households 
/head2right A Sense of Pride in the Community 
/head2right Historical & Cultural Preservation 
/head2right Public Facilities for the Community 
 
6. Current Projects  
 
(A) Public Art at Project Row Houses 
 
Virtually all of the arts and cultural programming is referred to as “Public Art” as they are 
developed to respond to the community, involves the  community, and reflect the community. 
To them, arts and the community are essentially nec essary for each other to thrive. 
 
(B) Arts Education Program 
 
The mission of Project Row Houses is to create a co mmunity through the celebration of art 
and African American history and culture. The Educa tion Program offers an arts-based 
curriculum designed to provide a unique, enriching cultural experience within a safe and 
creative environment. The goals are to: 
 
/head2right Broaden the awareness and understanding of the yout h through arts and culture 
/head2right Sharpen problem solving and analytical thinking cap abilities 
/head2right Cultivate an appreciation for community and social responsibility 
 
(C) Young Mother’s Program 
 
Project Row Houses believes that it is the communit y’s role to provide support for young 
single mothers as they pursue higher education and a career.  
The Young Mothers Residential Program at Project Ro w Houses provides housing and 
counseling on personal growth and parenting skills,  allowing these mothers to raise their 
children in a creative, nurturing community.    
Rural Economic Development Report  Page 85 
© SMS , Inc.  October, 2010 AAppppeennddiixx  FF::    CCaassee  SSttuuddiieess  
 
 
 
  
   Beyond Information.  Intelligence. 
EEssttaabblliisshheedd  11996600  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
TTHHEE  KKOOHHAALLAA  CCEENNTTEERR  
  
d 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
PPrreeppaarreedd  bbyy  SSMMSS  CCoonnssuullttiinngg  
AAuugguusstt,,  22001100 
 
 
 
CC CCCC CCee eeee eellllllllee eeee eebb bbbb bbrr rrrr rraa aaaa aatt tttt ttiiiiiiiinn nnnn nngg gggg gg        55 5555 5500 0000 00        yy yyyy yyee eeee eeaa aaaa aarr rrrr rrss ssss ss        oo oooo ooff ffff ff        SS SSSS SSee eeee eerr rrrr rrvv vvvv vviiiiiiiicc cccc ccee eeee ee        
  
   
Consulting 
 
Database Marketing 
 
Economic & Social Impact 
   Studies 
 
Research 
 
Training 
 
 
 
 
SMS 
 
1042 Fort Street Mall 
Suite 200 
Honolulu, HI  96813 
Ph: (808) 537-3356 
Toll Free (877) 535-5767 
Fax: (808) 537-2686 
E-mail: info@smshawaii.com 
Website:  www.smshawaii.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SMS  Affiliations and Associations: 
 
Experian 
International Survey Research 
Interviewing Service of America 
PCR Environmental, Inc. - Guam 
Solutions Pacific, LLC 
Ka‘ala Souza Training 
3i Marketing & Communications 
  NNOORRTTHH  KKOOHHAALLAA  CCEENNTTEERR  CCOONNTTEENNTTSS  
 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION................................... ................................................... ................................................... .............. 1  
II.   SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT WITHIN THE ISLAND  OF HAWAII......................................... ............... 1  
LOCATION  1 
COMMUNITY MEASURES  1 
III.  OVERVIEW OF THE ORGANIZATION ................. ................................................... ............................................3  
IV.   THE KOHALA CENTER AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT... ................................................... .....................6  
V.  KEY FACTORS THAT LED THE KOHALA CENTER TO WHERE  IT IS TODAY....................................... .........7  
VI.  LESSONS LEARNED ............................... ................................................... ................................................... .....8 
VII. CONSIDERATIONS FOR FUTURE START-UPS........... ................................................... .................................9  
 
  
The Kohala Center  Page 1 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 II..    IINNTTRROODDUUCCTTIIOONN  
 
This case study is one of three developed for the S tate of Hawai’i Department of Planning, Economic 
Development and Tourism (DBEDT), Office of Planning  (OP) Rural Economic Development project.  The 
goal of this phase of the project is to describe su ccessful efforts within a rural community to genera te 
economic development while retaining cultural and r ural characteristics.  The Kohala Center (TH\KC) wa s 
selected for this case study because of its efforts  in economic development and emphasis on retaining 
cultural traditions and history.  The following des cribes the social and economic context of the 
community where TKC is located, how the Foundation was created and where it is today, economic 
development efforts, potential measures and lessons  learned.   Ideally this case study will serve as a  
lesson for similar communities looking for a model to follow.  
 
IIII..      SSOOCCIIAALL  AANNDD  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  CCOONNTTEEXXTT  WWIITTHHIINN  TTHHEE  IISSLLAANNDD  OOFF  HHAAWWAAIIII  
 
The Kohala Center is a not-for-profit on the island  of Hawai’i.  The whole island is considered in pro gram 
design and its office is located in the town of Wai mea in the northern part of the island. 
 
LLooccaattiioonn  
 
For purposes of this study two geographic reference s will be used for TKC:  the first is the island of  
Hawai’i where its programs are located and where th e impact of its economic development efforts will b e 
felt; and the second is North Hawai’i that includes  the North Kohala, South Kohala and Hamakua 
districts, because that is where the need that led to this organization was identified, where it evolv ed 
and where THC office is located.  
 
By all definitions North Hawai’i is considered rura l. 
 
CCoommmmuunniittyy  MMeeaassuurreess  
 
Key community measures indicate that the island of Hawai’i is in economic distress: 
  
The Kohala Center  Page 2 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010   
Hawai’i County has lower per capita income compared  with the City & County of Honolulu and the County 
of Maui. 17    
 
County Per Capita Income 
Hawai‘i $25,070 
Honolulu $30,205 
Maui $29,128 
 
Hawaii County has a greater percent of its populati on with incomes at or below 200% Federal Poverty 
level. 18  
 
 
County Population for whom poverty status is determined at  or 
below 200% Federal Poverty Level 
Hawaii 29.6% 
Honolulu 20.7% 
Maui 9.9% 
 
Data for the census tracts that comprise North Hawa ii will be available with the release of the 2010 U S 
Census. 
 
Unemployment Rate 
 
Another indicator of economic distress is the unemp loyment rate.  Hawai’i County has the highest 
unemployment rate in the state: 19  
 
Unemployment Rate  
County December 2008 December 2009 July 2010 
Hawaii County 9.3% 9.4% 10% 
Kauai County 7.7% 8.7% 8.7% 
Maui County 8.8% 8.7% 8.2% 
C&C of Honolulu 4.3% 5.3% 5.8% 
State 5.2% 6.4% 6.8% 
 
 
County Plan 
 
The economic goal for the County of Hawai’i is to “ provide residents with opportunities to improve the ir 
quality of life through economic development that e nhances the County’s natural and social 
environments.” 
  
                                                
17  US Census, American Community Survey, 2008.  Note Kauai County data not provided in 2008. 
18  US Census, American Community Survey, 2008.  Note Kauai County data not provided in 2008. 
19  State of Hawaii Department of Business, Economic D evelopment & Tourism, Monthly Indicators.  
The Kohala Center  Page 3 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 County plan economic development objectives are: 
 
/head2right Economic development and improvement shall be in ba lance with the physical, social, and cultural 
environments of the island of Hawaii 
/head2right Strive for diversity and stability in the economic system 
/head2right Provide an economic environment that allows new, ex panded, or improved economic opportunities 
that are compatible with the County's cultural, nat ural and social environment. 
/head2right Strive for an economic climate that provides its re sidents an opportunity for choice of 
occupation. 
/head2right Strive for diversification of the economy by streng thening existing industries and attracting new 
endeavors 
/head2right Strive for full employment. 
/head2right Promote and develop the island of Hawaii into a uni que scientific and cultural model, where 
economic gains are in balance with social and physi cal amenities. 
 
The County of Hawai’i is striving for economic deve lopment that recognizes the importance of cultural 
traditions and the need for balance with the enviro nment.  The Kohala Center exemplifies the direction  for 
future development on the island. 
 
 
IIIIII..    OOVVEERRVVIIEEWW  OOFF  TTHHEE  OORRGGAANNIIZZAATTIIOONN  
 
A. Mission & Goals 
 
The Kohala Center is a non-profit, independent acad emic institution.    
The mission of TKC is: to respectfully engage the I sland of Hawai‘i as an extraordinary and vibrant 
research and learning laboratory for humanity. 20  
The vision of TKC is to achieve: a state of pono , in which individuals realize their potential, 
contributing their very best to one another, to the  community, and to the ‘Äina (the land) itself, in 
exchange for a meaningful and happy life.  21  
 
B. History 
 
TKC evolved from the North Hawai’i residents search ing for ways to improve the quality of life in thei r 
community.  In 1999 – 2000, Five Mountains Hawai’i,  a community health not-for-profit organization, 
undertook an extensive planning process that includ ed gathering of community measures, 12 community 
meetings at which data was shared and priority comm unity outcomes were identified, and interviews with  
leaders in a broad range of private and public sect ors.  The vision that evolved is: “ North Hawai’i i s a 
great place to live, with a great sense of communit y, a great place to work, play and raise a strong f amily 
and a great place to heal.” 22   The desired outcomes for the community are: “heal thy people making 
healthy choices that can be described by life stage s:… (including) adults will have meaningful work wi th 
                                                
20  The Kohala Center, 2009 annual report. 
21  The Kohala Center, 2009 annual report 
22  2010 Hawaii County Community Health Profile, writt en by the North Hawaii Outcomes Project.  
The Kohala Center  Page 4 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 family sustaining incomes.” 23   Five community priorities were identified from wh ich three underlying issues 
were identified, the one most directly related to T KC is “ improve economic opportunities in North Haw aii, 
and simultaneously ‘preserve” what’s special.” 24   
 
Throughout the planning process there were multiple  underlying visions that evolved into the Kohala 
Center: 25  
 
/head2right To strengthen the educational and research infrastr ucture on the island as a way of investing in 
multigenerational assets. 
/head2right To build an undergraduate program that would foster  a sense of respect for the natural 
environment of Hawai’i Island; 
/head2right To connect teaching and research with K-12 schools as a means of encouraging science education; 
/head2right To bring forward the realization of Hawai’i Island as a living classroom while sharing the value of 
Hawaiian culture and science in the contemporary wo rld. 
 
In January 2001 the Kohala Center was officially an nounced in Waimea.  “ The Kohala Center emerged in 
response to identified community needs and to the g enerous interest of the world’s scientific 
community. Through the center’s focus on research a nd education and its respectful engagement of the 
Hawai’i Island environments, the Center could susta in the natural environment, strengthen the social 
fabric, and develop the economy of Hawai’i Island.  The Kohala Center would help communities on the 
island and around the world thrive – ecologically, economically, culturally and socially.” 
 
Early in its creation TKC was a beneficiary of fund ing from the Five Mountain organization and its fou nder 
Earl Bakken to assist with planning and organizing.   Dr. Bakken recruited Dr. Matthews Hamabata,  the 
first and only Director of TKC, who was born and ra ised in Lihue, Kauai, received his Doctorate degree  
from Harvard, was a dean at Haverford College in Ph iladelphia and a professor at Yale University. He i s 
supported by Elizabeth “Betsy” Cole who has lived o n the island since 1980 and was an integral part of  
the community and of Five Mountain. 
 
C. Kohala Center Today 
 
The foundation of the Kohala Center today is an und erstanding that Hawai’i Island is unique as an 
accessible environment to study how climate affects  species and different ecosystems.  The island is 
also a model for “understanding cultural evolution”  as the Polynesian voyagers settled in different wa ys 
around the island – developing an agriculturally ba sed society that supported and sustained quite a 
large population.  Committing to, preserving and sh aring the deep relationship that Hawaiian people 
share with the land is the underlying values of the  organization.  26    
 
                                                
23  2010 Hawaii County Community Health Profile, writt en by the North Hawaii Outcomes Project. 
24  2010 Hawaii County Community Health Profile, writt en by the North Hawaii Outcomes Project. 
25  The Kohala Center Founding History, www.kohalacenter.org   
26  The Kohala Center, November 2009 Annual Report.  
The Kohala Center  Page 5 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 Since its founding in 2001, TKC has expanded its ne twork of project and program partners to over 27 
organizations including 11 mainland and internation al universities, seven educational institutions in 
Hawai’i, three national and local government agenci es and six non-profit foundations/entities.    This  
broad partnership brings together experts from arou nd the world and within Hawai’i to share, learn and  
discover what the island and its people offer throu gh the lens of both science and Hawaiian culture.  
Major programs are described below.    
 
Education and research programs  to “build bridges to the very best universities fo r island youth by 
creating meaningful educational opportunities on Ha wai’i Island” 27  are a significant aspect of TKC.  The 17 
programs include: 
 
Graduate and High School Students  
 
/head2right Cornell Field Program - student research on island 
/head2right Cornell-Hawaiÿi Graduate Field Research Laboratory - Cornell and UH Hilo students work 
together on research in island’s forests, ponds and  near shore ocean 
/head2right Annual scholarships for island high school students  to attend intensive programs conducted by 
mainland universities 
/head2right Yale University – students research sustainability options and work with the County to study 
energy systems on the island. 
/head2right Rocky Mountain Institute study of food sustainabili ty 
 
The experience of conducting this research benefits  the students, the research results benefit the 
island, the county and academic knowledge worldwide . 
 
Elementary and Middle School Students  
 
/head2right Hidden Jewels program at Kohala Elementary School –  “to instill curiosity and a love of learning 
in as many students as possible, with an emphasis o n science.”  
/head2right Frameworks for Science Success Project in the Hilo Intermediate Complex – the outcome is to 
increase both the quality and quantity of science i nstruction in the elementary grades, to 
improve student achievement in science, to promote the integration of science across all 
content areas, and to create a framework that will sustain ongoing improvement of teachers’ 
professional practice in science. 
/head2right Hawai’i Island Meaningful Outdoors Experiences for Students Program.  
 
In the 2008-2009 year these programs and others ser ved: 
 
/head2right 47 schools island wide, 
/head2right 2,985 K-12 students, 
/head2right 63 undergraduate and graduate students, 
/head2right 1154 learners, and 
/head2right 135 island residents. 28  
 
                                                
27  The Kohala Center, November 2009 Annual Report 
28  The Kohala Center, November 2009 Annual Report  
The Kohala Center  Page 6 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 TKC together with The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation a nd Kamehameha Schools established the Mellon-
Hawai’i Doctoral and Postdoctoral Fellowship Progra m .  This program provides fellowships to Native 
Hawaiian scholars, whose research is about Hawai’i’ s natural and/or cultural landscape, history, polit ics 
and/or society.  This program encourages and enable s new credentialed Hawaiian academics.     
 
Ecosystem health projects  to restore the natural, cultural and historic reso urces are another 
integrated aspect of TKC.  Since 2006 TKC has been leading efforts to restore Kahaluÿu Bay, to educate  
residents and visitors in how to enjoy the bay with out doing damage and now developing an ongoing wate r 
quality-monitoring program.  Another program is the  Kohala Watershed Partnership to restore the 
watershed of Kohala Mountain that will lead to redu ction in the sediment in Pelekane Bay.  These are j ust 
two of the five programs/projects currently underwa y.   
 
Hawaiian culture and values are integrated into eac h of the TKC programs.  Scholars and students who 
are new to the island go through a three-day orient ation program conducted by the Kanakaÿole 
Foundation to help them understand the relationship  and respect that Hawaiians have for the land – 
and to accept that the island is the teacher. 
 
 
  IIVV..      TTHHEE  KKOOHHAALLAA  CCEENNTTEERR  AANNDD  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
The Kohala Center is not only a educational institu tion it is also an employer, a catalyst for increas ed 
spending on the island and overtime a supporter of economic development 
 
A.  Short Term Economic Development Contribution 
  
THC has increased the number of jobs available on H awai’i Island.  In 2009 the Kohala Center had a sta ff 
of 36, a significant increase in from the four staf f members in 2005.  In addition, TKC has approximat ely 
50 consultants and/or independent contractors worki ng with them at any given time.  Total “new” payrol l 
in the community is approximately $1.2 million annu ally. 29   The impact is beyond just Hawai’i Island – for 
example as a part of its School Gardens program the re are coordinators on every island, 10 to 15 part-
time employees and four to five fulltime employees.  
 
TKC programs also bring additional spending to the islands.  The scholars, undergraduate and graduate 
students who come to the island for their research and studies add revenue to Hawai’i Island lodging, 
restaurants/food service and stores.   
 
B.  Long Term Economic Development Contribution 
 
Over the longer term TKC will contribute to economi c development in both direct and indirect ways: 
 
/head2right The programs underway in the island’s schools today  will lead to a better-educated resident 
population.  Better education will allow residents to be qualified for higher paying jobs and in 
sufficient numbers will draw those types of jobs to  the Island. 
                                                
29  The Kohala Center, November 2009 Annual Report  
The Kohala Center  Page 7 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 /head2right Over time TKC plans to build a campus of field stat ions throughout the island for scholars to 
use for their research.    First priority will be g iven to researchers who grew up and/or were 
educated in Hawai’i.  This provides incentives for Hawaii students to return to the islands and 
will enable them to pursue their academic and profe ssional goals within the island.  Likewise 
these field stations will continue to attract schol ars and students from around the world 
creating a new educational industry for the islands . 
 
/head2right Research currently underway in the area of sustaina bility and agricultural self-sufficiency will 
lead to Hawai’i Island becoming a model community.  Included in this higher quality of life would be 
farmers and ranchers who can earn a living wage, mo re food grown and consumed on island, and 
healthier residents.  This will all contribute to a  higher quality of life for the residents and the 
environment of Hawai’i Island.  
 
 
VV..    KKEEYY  FFAACCTTOORRSS  TTHHAATT  LLEEDD  TTHHEE  KKOOHHAALLAA  CCEENNTTEERR  TTOO  WWHHEERREE  IITT  IISS  
TTOODDAAYY  
 
The following are key factors that have contributed  to the successes of the Kohala Center: 
 
/head2right The vision and rationale for TKC evolved from the c ommunity .  The vision of TKC evolved from a 
community planning process that identified the chal lenges and opportunities facing the island of 
Hawai’i in general and the North Hawai’i community in particular.  Many residents were involved in 
the lengthy discussion and planning processes that resulted in the vision for TKC. 
 
/head2right An in-depth planning process that included the comm unity & experts was undertaken to 
map out how to achieve the vision.    Time and reso urces were spent developing a detailed 
implementation plan for the Center.  In the process  talking with experts and with 
community members validated plans.   
 
/head2right TKC leadership team is uniquely qualified.    While Matt Hamabata, TKC Executive Director, is n ot 
originally from Hawaiÿi Island, he was born and rai sed on Kauaÿi that provided tremendous insight 
on rural communities and Hawaiian culture.  He rece ived his undergraduate and graduate 
degrees from respected mainland universities and wo rked for many years on the East Coast 
during which time he established many of the academ ic connections that were and are so 
important for the Center today.   Matt exemplifies TKC – grounded in Hawai’i with reach to 
mainland academic institutions to create a unique a nd powerful learning environment. 
 
Elizabeth “Betsy” Cole is the Deputy Director of th e Center.  She has lived on Hawai’i Island since 
1980 and has been active in community organizations  since that time.    She understands the 
Hawai’i Island community, start-up non-profits and what it takes to get things accomplished on the 
island.   
 
Together Matt and Betsy listened to the community a nd worked with the residents to develop TKC 
into an organization that is accepted and supported  by the community.  They also had the skill set 
to make TKC happen.  
The Kohala Center  Page 8 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 /head2right TKC developed partnerships with Hawaiian organizati ons, universities, landowners, Foundations.  
TKC would not be possible without partnerships and effective working relationships.  For example, 
Kamehameha Schools provided permission for TKC prog rams to use their lands for research 
recognizing that the groups would treat the land wi th appropriate respect and the value of the 
research would benefit everyone.  Cornell and Brown  Universities send undergraduates and 
graduate students to the island to conduct research , and in turn they accept Island high school 
students in their leadership programs.   Students c ome to learn from the Island and they take 
away a greater understanding of Hawaiian culture th at will be beneficial to the State over time.  
Successful partnerships are a significant factor fo r the success of TKC. 
 
/head2right TKC has a pattern of “develop, create and replicate .”     Projects start with careful planning, then 
they are implemented in one place and if they are s uccessful they are replicated elsewhere.  One 
example is the Hidden Jewels program that is being expanded to other schools. 
 
/head2right TKC has attracted multiple funding streams.   The organization was blessed with significant 
start up funding and support from one major contrib utor.  Overtime there is now 50+ funding 
streams that allows for greater organizational inde pendence. 
 
 
VVII..    LLEESSSSOONNSS  LLEEAARRNNEEDD  
 
The following are some of the insights gained from talking with Matt Hamabata and Betsy Cole. 
 
/head2right Listen to the community and rely on supporters with in the community .  TKC would not have 
happened if the vision had not evolved from a ratio nal process driven within the community.   
 
/head2right Realistically look at the strengths, weaknesses, op portunities and challenges of a community 
while planning .  To develop a proper plan the planning team must be realistic about the assets of 
an island/community and respect the ambitions of is land residents.  Likewise creative thinking 
may be necessary to see the assets in a new light, 
 
/head2right The core competency of the organization is communic ations .  TKC has depth in writing skills that 
has enabled it to communicate their unique vision a nd plan to potential funders, partners, and 
supporters.    Ideally over time they hope to creat e an endowment fund similar to what a 
university uses for funding. 
 
/head2right Operating as a non-profit was a good strategy for c ommunity re-development .  Within rural 
communities it would be difficult for a new for-pro fit business to garner the needed support for 
success.  A non-profit is more accepted by rural co mmunities because it is (or is perceived as) 
more community-oriented rather than bottom-line ori ented. 
 
/head2right Important to have quality mentors.   The founding board members served mentors as the 
organization developed.  They provided assistance, guidance and asked good questions.  This is 
important in any organization, especially in its ea rly operations.  
The Kohala Center  Page 9 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 VVIIII..  CCOONNSSIIDDEERRAATTIIOONNSS  FFOORR  FFUUTTUURREE  SSTTAARRTT--UUPPSS  
 
Matt believes there are many dynamic entrepreneurs throughout communities in Hawai’i.  Many of these 
new entrepreneurs do not have prior exposure to the  business world; but do have the passion and the 
ideas that can develop with assistance. 
 
/head2right New start-ups need quality assistance and advice:  technical business assistance, 
understanding regulations and ways to address regul ations and sound business advice.  Quality 
mentors will make 
 
/head2right They need access to bankers, marketing people, plan ners, financial advisors, information and 
“seed money.”  
 
 
  
   Beyond Information.  Intelligence. 
EEssttaabblliisshheedd  11996600  
  
WWaaiippää  FFoouunnddaattiioonn  CCaassee  SSttuuddyy  
  
 
 
Prepared August, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CC CCCC CCee eeee eellllllllee eeee eebb bbbb bbrr rrrr rraa aaaa aatt tttt ttiiiiiiiinn nnnn nngg gggg gg        55 5555 5500 0000 00        yy yyyy yyee eeee eeaa aaaa aarr rrrr rrss ssss ss        oo oooo ooff ffff ff        SS SSSS SSee eeee eerr rrrr rrvv vvvv vviiiiiiiicc cccc ccee eeee ee        
  
   
Consulting 
 
Database Marketing 
 
Economic & Social Impact 
   Studies 
 
Research 
 
Training 
 
 
 
 
SMS 
 
1042 Fort Street Mall 
Suite 200 
Honolulu, HI  96813 
Ph: (808) 537-3356 
Toll Free (877) 535-5767 
Fax: (808) 537-2686 
E-mail: info@smshawaii.com 
Website:  www.smshawaii.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SMS  Affiliations and Associations: 
 
Experian 
International Survey Research 
Interviewing Service of America 
PCR Environmental, Inc. - Guam 
Solutions Pacific, LLC 
Ka‘ala Souza Training 
3i Marketing & Communications 
  WWAAIIPPAA  FFOOUUNNDDAATTIIOONN  
CCOONNTTEENNTTSS  
 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION....................................... ................................................... ................................................... ........... 1  
II.  WAIPÄ WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF THE NORTH SHORE OF KAUA I – SOCIAL & ECONOMIC 
CHARACTERISTISTICS ................................. ................................................... ................................................... ....... 1  
A.  LOCATION ................................................... ................................................... .......................................... 1 
B.  COMMUNITY MEASURES ................................................... ................................................... ...................... 2 
C.  COUNTY PLAN – T O RETAIN RURAL CHARACTERISTICS ................................................... ................................ 2 
III. OVERVIEW OF THE ORGANIZATION .................. ................................................... ............................................ 2  
A.  MISSION & G OALS ................................................... ................................................... ............................. 2 
B.  HISTORY OF THE ORGANIZATION ................................................... ................................................... ........... 3 
C.  WAIPÄ FOUNDATION TODAY ................................................... ................................................... .................. 5 
IV.  WAIPÄ FOUNDATION & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT............ ................................................... .......................7  
A.  IDENTIFIED NEED WITHIN THE COMMUNITY ................................................... ................................................. 8 
B.  PURPOSE & G OALS OF PROJECTS THAT WILL SUPPORT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ............................................ 8 
C.  CHALLENGES FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ................................................... ........................................... 10 
V.  KEY FACTORS THAT LED TO WHERE WAIPÄ IS TODAY ....... ................................................... .................... 10  
VI.  LESSONS LEARNED.................................... ................................................... ................................................... .12  
 
  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 1 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010  
Waipä Foundation Case Study 
 
  
II..  IINNTTRROODDUUCCTTIIOONN  
 
This case study is one of three developed for the S tate of Hawai’i Department of Planning, Economic 
Development and Tourism (DBEDT), Office of Planning  (OP) Rural Economic Development project.  The 
goal of this phase of the project is to describe su ccessful 
efforts within a rural community to generate econom ic 
development while retaining cultural and rural char acteristics.  
Waipä Foundation was selected for this case study b ecause 
of its efforts in economic development and emphasis  on 
retaining cultural traditions and history.  The fol lowing 
describes the social and economic context of the co mmunity 
where Waipä is located, how the Foundation was crea ted and 
where it is today, economic development efforts, po tential 
measures and lessons learned.   Ideally this case s tudy will 
serve as a lesson for similar communities looking f or a model 
to follow.  
 
 
IIII..  WWAAIIPPÄÄ  WWIITTHHIINN  TTHHEE  CCOONNTTEEXXTT  OOFF  TTHHEE  NNOORRTTHH  SSHHOORREE  OOFF  KKAAUUAAII  ––  
SSOOCCIIAALL  &&  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  CCHHAARRAACCTTEERRIISSTTIISSTTIICCSS  
 
The population of the County of Kauaÿi is approxima tely 5 percent of the State of Hawaiÿi. 30    Relative to 
the state as a whole, Kauaÿi has a larger percent o f its population designated rural – 19 percent 
compared with the state at 8%.  Likewise housing un its designated as rural made of 24 percent of the 
households in the county compared with 10 percent i n the state as a whole. 
 
A. Location 
 
The ahupuaÿa of Waipä is located on the northern di strict of Haleleÿa on the island of Kauai.  It is 
situated between the ahupuaÿa of Waiÿoli and Waikok o.  Waipä is 1,670 acres of primarily 
agricultural and conservation lands.  The ahupuaÿa spans from the mauka peak of Mämalahoa to 
the south, to the point of Keahu at the shore of Ha nalei Bay to the north.  
                                                
30   Demographic characteristics used in this case stu dy primarily based on 2000 U.S. Census Bureau 
data because of the level of detail provided by are a smaller than a County.  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 2 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 B. Community Measures 
 
Waipä is located in the geographic section of Kauaÿ i commonly known as the North Shore that includes 
Hanalei, Princeville and Kilauea (zip codes 96714, 96722 and 96754).)  The 2000 population of the 
North Shore is 6,348 residents living within 3.796 households.  100 percent of the population and 
households of the North Shore are considered rural by census definition.  The percent of population wi th 
income below poverty levels for the State is 10 per cent, for Kauaÿi is 10 percent, but for the North S hore 
it is 12%.  The unemployment rate for the North Sho re is approximately 2 percent of the residents’ age  16 
and older; this is a little lower than for the isla nd as a whole. 
 
C. County Plan – To Retain Rural Characteristics 
 
Kauaÿi County Plans include this direction for all its plans to “promote and preserve open agricultura l 
lands as a key element of Kauai’s rural character a nd lifestyle.” 
 
Overall, the North Shore of Kauaÿi is rural and its  higher level of households with incomes below the 
poverty levels suggests that this may be a communit y in distress that would benefit from economic 
development. 
 
 
IIIIII..  OOVVEERRVVIIEEWW  OOFF  TTHHEE  OORRGGAANNIIZZAATTIIOONN  
 
Waipa Foundation is a community-based 501c3 nonprof it, whose mission is to restore the 
physical and cultural vibrance of the 1,600 acre Wa ipa watershed through the creation of a 
Hawaiian community center and learning center. The Foundation has been managing the Waipa 
ahupua`a since 1994, and with help from partners, v olunteers and funders has developed and 
restored taro farms, organic and Hawaiian plant gar dens, a koa reforestation site, a coastal 
fishpond, plant nursery, and farmers market all of which serve as learning sites on the property.  
 
A. Mission & Goals 
 
The mission of the Waipa Foundation, as stated in i ts 2003 Strategic Plan is: The physical and 
cultural restoration of the ahupua'a of Waipa.   
 
LONG-RANGE GOALS  
 
/head2right To restore the Waipä ahupuaÿa (watershed) as a comm unity center and learning center for 
culturally-based land and resource stewardship, and  the preservation, perpetuation, and 
practice of our Hawaiian culture.  
  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 3 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 /head2right To empower our Hawaiian community within the Halele 'a   district of Kaua'i, and the larger 
Halele'a and Hawaiian communities, through educatio nal, cultural, and community-based 
economic development programs, with a special focus  on kalo, the traditional food of our native 
people.  
/head2right To restore the health of the natural environment an d native ecosystems of the ahupuaÿa, and to 
involve our community in the stewardship, restorati on, and management of the land and 
resources within the ahupuaÿa of Waipä.    
/head2right To practice and foster social, economic and environ mental sustainability in the management of 
Waipä's natural and cultural resources.  
 
TARGET COMMUNITY 
Waipä Foundation's target community is threefold, a nd includes a culturally based group, a geographic 
group, and a community of practice as follows:  
 
/head2right Native Hawaiians  
/head2right The communities within the district of Halele'a, Ka ua'i  
/head2right Those who work together to malama the ahupuaÿa of W aipä, and perpetuate the vision for Waipä 
 
B. History of the Organization 
 
ANCIENT HISTORY 31  
Like much of Hawaii's agricultural lands, Waipä's p hysical landscape has been significantly altered 
through agricultural practices over the last 200yea rs obliterating much of its physical history.   Fro m 
the physical remnants, mo'olelo, and archived infor mation, however, it can be ascertained that Waipä 
sustained a significant community of Hawaiians who grew kalo and other crops, prior to the Mahele.   
Halaloa Heiau, with Kane as its deity, is the only heiau whose location is known today.   Several anci ent 
agricultural systems have been located, and one map ped, in the upper Waipä valley.   There may have be en 
significant kalo growing in the Waipä valley throug h the 1860's, as indicated by several 'auwai system s 
which feed the lower valley, kuleana records, and a  documented observation during the 1860's.   Rice w as 
a major agricultural product grown and milled at Wa ipä between the 1860's and 1940's.   Ranching was 
practiced at Waipä from the 1940's through the 1980 's.  
The ahupuaÿa of Waipä was awarded to Ruta Ke'ilikol ani, great-granddaughter of Kamehameha I, during 
the mahele, and subsequently passed into the landho ldings of Kamehameha Schools, Waipä's current 
landowner.  
 
                                                
31   From the Waipä Foundation website:  www.waipafoundation.org    
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 4 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 
MODERN HISTORY 32  
 
In 1982 the Hawaiian Farmers of Hanalei (HFH) was i ncorporated.  The intent of this community based, 
for profit corporation was “to obtain land within t heir community which would function as a base for t he 
preservation, perpetuation and practice of Hawaiian  culture 
and lifestyle through a community based, financiall y self-
sufficient project.”  After four years of negotiati ng HFH was 
able to convince Kamehameha Schools to lease the la nd to 
them instead of developing it.  A condition of the lease 
required the development of a land use master plan.   As 
described in the 2003 Master Plan , “these küpuna e nvisioned 
a valley in which streams would always flow uninter rupted 
from the mountains to the ocean, allowing migrating  native 
fish to flourish.   They dreamed of 'ohana returning to farm 
native crops, able to support their families from t he land, 
rather than working multiple menial jobs to survive .   Their vision encompassed restoring native uplan d 
forest where people could come to gather medicinal plants.   They imagined that 'olelo Hawai'i (Hawaiian 
language) would be spoken throughout the valley, an d envisioned Waipä full of children learning their 
culture (Blaich, 2003, p.4.).  
 
In 1994  a non-profit, Waipä Foundation, was formed  to work with the HFH in achieving its vision.    
The Foundation received a grant from OHA  and in Se ptember of 1994 the first land use master 
plan for the ahupuaÿa of Waipä was completed.  The plan described the prior ten years and went 
forward 25 years.  The Goal of the Master Plan 33  was: 
 
/head2right To provide a land base for the revival of Hawaiian agriculture and aquaculture as both a 
source of income and an educational tool. 
/head2right To positively affect the future of Hawaiÿi’s people , with emphasis on persons of Hawaiian 
ancestry, by creating a project which would emphasi ze social and economic self-
sufficiency through the perpetuation and practice o f Hawaiian culture. 
/head2right To create a “marae” or gathering place for the comm unity, to be used for educational 
and recreational projects and festivals, especially  those pertaining to Hawaiian arts, 
crafts, music and dance. 
 
                                                
32   From the Waipä Foundation website:  www.waipafoundation.org  
33   Land Use Master Pan for the ahupuaÿa of Waipä Kau aÿi, written by Kathleen A. Cook, Cooke 
Associates of Lihue, Kauaÿi, contracted by the Hawa iian Farmers of Hanalei, Inc. September 23, 
1994.  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 5 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 Also in 1994, Stacy Sproat, the daughter of one of the original founders of HFH, was named co-
manager of the Foundation.  In 2004 the Waipä 20-ye ar Master Site Plan and Development 
Program was prepared for the Foundation by Townscap e, Inc 34 .   The purpose of this document 
was to plan the growth of the Foundation programs, facilities and infrastructure in a 
comprehensive fashion rather than piecemeal growth.   The Goal of this plan was “to achieve a 
sustainable and self-reliant living community at Wa ipä through the provision of agricultural, 
educational, cultural and community space with oppr otunities for community-based economic 
development. 
 
In 2005 the Foundation submitted permit application s to the County for Waipä Foundation 
communty complex, educational programs and farmers’  market.   In March 2007 the Waipä 
Foundation Agricutural Plan was  completed. 35    
 
C. Waipä Foundation Today 
 
Every year, eco-cultural education programs on site  serve 60+ families from the local 
communities (most of them low-income), and welcome over 2,000 lifelong learners from around 
Kaua`i, Hawaii, and beyond on field trips, special group visits, and other programs which 
incorporate environmental and resource stewardship,  Hawaiian culture, local food systems and 
food production, enrichment and education. Communit y gatherings, events, and festivals draw 
another 2,000 people per year, most from the local area. The Foundation is currently overseen 
by a 6 member Board of Directors, and run by 17 man agement and staff.  
 
Waipä Foundation has three major areas of focus, wi th each of the focus areas supporting the others: 
/head2right Malama ÿaina 
/head2right Waipä Ahupuaÿa Learning Center 
/head2right Community Use and Economic Development 
 
Malama ÿAina  
 
Current programs to restore and care for the land i nclude:  
 
/head2right Restoring native forests maÿuka, and propagating na tive plants as well as plants for sale and 
out planting outside of Waipä.    
/head2right Creating and restoring wetland and dryland farming areas, for kalo and other crops-for food, 
cultural practice, and other uses- in the farming a reas.  
o Waipä lo`i:   A two acre area west of Waipä stream,  that Waipä Foundation farms with 
it's staff, volunteers and program participants, as  a learning site, and to produce kalo 
for it's programs and to experiment with more organ ic and sustainable practices.   These 
                                                
34   Waipä 20-year Master Site Plan and Development Pr ogram, prepared for Waipä Foundation by 
Townscape, Inc. June 2004. 
35   This plan was funded by Office of Hawaiian Affairs and prepared by Townscape, Inc., Kamakaküokalani Ce nter for 
Hawaiian Studies, UH at Mänoa, UH Sea Grant College  Program.  
  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 6 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 two acres are part of about 10 acres of lo'i at Wai pa cultivated by 5 mahi'ai kalo and 
their 'öhana, in the same area, and utilizing the s ame water system as their 
predecessors and ancestors have for hundreds of yea rs.  
o Waipa Garden is an outdoor learning area and one of  Waipa Foundation's oldest projects. 
  This garden harbors canoe for cultural use, and m any established natives, which serve 
as both demonstration and seed source for propagati on and out planting.   Lessons, 
experiments, and work at this site are incorporated  into Waipä's Ahupua`a Learning 
Center programs.  
/head2right Field O Dreams.   This mala 'ai is another learning  and work site utilized in our Ahupua'a Learning 
Center Programs, where vegetables that are eaten to day, like salad mix and lettuce, kale, chard, 
tomatoes and eggplant and herbs, among other things , are grown.  This garden is cultivated and 
managed by staff, volunteers, and program participa nts, and produce is often prepared and 
consumed within programs, and/or sold at farmers ma rket.   Techniques are "beyond organic" 
and moving toward sustainable.   
 
Learning Center 
 
For the last 25 years Waipä and Waipä Foundation ha ve been able to develop and model Hawaiian 
community based ahupuaÿa resource management for th e Hawaiian community and all of Hawai'i.   
Annually, over 1,000 lifelong learners come to Waip ä to participate in various cultural and 'aina base d 
programs and projects. Waipä directly impacts its l ocal Hawaiian community in Kaua'ï's Halele'a (North  
Shore) district by providing programs for keiki thr ough kupuna.  
 
/head2right Programs for local youth: Through ongoing programs targeting youth from the Halele'a (North 
Shore Kaua'i) area it can be said that one of their  goals is "Cultivating youth with roots that 
stretch deep into the earth, connected to the 'aina  of Kaua'i o Manokalanipo". (Blaich, 2003, 
p.3)   The Foundation strives to perpetuate Hawaiia n lifestyle, culture, and values by providing 
opportunities for youth to live and experience them .   Hawaiian culture so highly valued the land 
and resources, and by reconnecting our keiki with t he culture and 'aina, they will gain the 
knowledge of those valuse, and the desire to malama  those resources.   Enrichment and 
educational experiences are also incorporated into the work with Halele`a youth.  
 
Waipä targets young people from the Halele'a distri ct-specifically from 'ohana with historic ties to 
the community-for longer range, recurrent programs.    To build on knowledge gained in each program, 
they offer preference to returning keiki and 'opio first. Enrollment to these programs is constantly 
filled, with usually just a few openings for new pa rticipants in each program 
 
/head2right Programs for visiting groups:  Waipä is an ahupuaÿa -learning center that serves a community of 
interest and of practice.   Schools, special intere st groups, and families interested in learning 
about Waipä, science, native plants, the water cycl e, stream life, kalo, poi and Hawaiian culture, 
are encouraged to visit and share through hands-on work and experience.   Annually more than 
700 individuals from schools, special interest grou ps and families participate in one of these 
programs.   Such groups come from as close as Hanal ei school next door, to the East Coast of 
the United States.   A sliding fee scale for visiti ng groups is employed, based on each group's fit 
to the target population, and their budget.   It is  most important for us to connect people with 
the culture, land, and resources, regardless of bud get.    
  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 7 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 The Foundation also offers internships and extended  volunteer opportunities and organizational 
partnerships including: 
 
/head2right Summer Natural Resource Conservation Internship  
/head2right Other Extended Volunteer/Learning Opportunities  
/head2right Partnerships with Public and Charter Schools for on going programs    
 
Community Use and Economic Development 
 
Waipä produces food (poi and vegetables) for over 5 0 Hawaiian 'ohana on a recurring, or regular basis.    
They feed over 75 families from all over Kaua'i-mos t of them Hawaiians- poi on a weekly basis, year-ro und, 
and welcome an average of 500 customers and 30 vend ors to our farmers market each Tuesday 
afternoon. 
/head2right Poi Day  
/head2right Farmers Market  
/head2right Na Mahi`ai Kalo O Waipa  
/head2right Field O Dreams  
 
 
IIVV..  WWAAIIPPÄÄ  FFOOUUNNDDAATTIIOONN  &&  EECCOONNOOMMIICC  DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  
 
The Waipä Foundation has supported economic develop ment on the North Shore of Kauaÿi in 
multiple ways and in ways that are consistent with the rich cultural tradition of the area and 
that retains rural characteristics.  First, as an e mployer – in 1994 there were two employees of 
the Foundation, today there are 17 management and s taff employees.  Staff is engaged in 
restoring and working the land, developing and lead ing the educational programs and supporting 
Poi Day and the Farmers Market. 
 
Second, the Farmers’ Market located on the site, ha s 30 vendors and 400 to 600 visitors 
each week.  Approximately 75% of the visitors are t ourists from around the island – bringing not 
only spending to the market, but to the North Shore  area as a whole.   
 
Third, Poi Day not only provides food for families,  but also helps support local kalo farmers 
because the kalo used comes from the site and is al so purchased from farmers with fields in the 
area.  Overtime the goal is for kalo farmers to rec eive a price high enough for their product for 
them to be economically self-sufficient. 
  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 8 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 Future plans for economic development will have an even greater impact on the community. 
Since 2004, Waipä Foundation has been working to pl an, permit, fund, design and build a 
community-use kitchen and poi mill at Waipä, to cre ate more diversified, culturally appropriate, 
and `ÿaina-based economic opportunities for the com munities of Kaua`i’s North Shore.   
Community and land use planning processes and permi tting by Waipä Foundation over the years 
have cost over $200,000 and allowed the project to move forward. Today, the project is 
currently under review with Kaua’i County for build ing permits, has been supported and funded by 
organizations, agencies, foundations, and individua ls at the state and federal levels, and in the 
private sector, such as Kamehameha Schools, OHA, th e Parks Family Foundation, Peter K. 
Buckley, and the Dept. of Health and Human Service Administration for Native Americans.  
 
A. Identified Need within the Community 
 
Ninety percent of the food consumed on the island o f Kaua`i is imported from the U.S. Mainland, 
resulting in the highest food prices in the nation.  Kaua`i is at the end of the transportation lines, with all 
food being imported by barge or commercial airlines . 36   With extremely high, and increasing costs of livi ng, 
Kaua`i communities need to expand local subsistence  gardening and local food production in order to 
improve the island’s self-reliance and better suppo rt low-income residents. Kalo (taro) and poi are hi gh 
quality traditional staple foods of the Hawaiian pe ople, small and family farmers in the North Shore a rea 
grow 60% of the Kalo (taro) in the State, of which 90% is sold to large mills, mostly off-island, at 
extremely low farm gate prices. Other knowledgeable  farmers grow gourmet produce sold to hotels and 
resorts, and at local farmer markets, which are pop ular and well attended by visitors and residents al ike. 
Such markets provide an important food system link in enabling family farmers to connect directly with  
those seeking to buy local produce. There is great need for a community certified facility to process 
crops and make value added products, and technical and business training to build capacity for farmers  
to succeed in these efforts. Farmers on Kaua`i are an aging population, and almost no youth or younger  
people are getting into farming for social and econ omic reasons. In order to achieve long-term food 
security for the island, youth need to be inspired to grow food to feed themselves and their communiti es, 
and to get their families into it. This is beginnin g to be achieved by Waipa's youth programs, and oth er 
Public Charter Schools that incorporate gardening i nto their curriculum. Waipa has found that exposing  
children on a regular basis to growing, making and eating food, makes it part of their knowledge and 
experience base, and their interest in it continues  to grow. 37  
 
B. Purpose & Goals of Projects that will Support Ec onomic Development  
 
The purpose is to improve local food system infrast ructure and self-reliance by increasing and 
providing local food processing capacity and engagi ng farmers, consumers and distribution links 
to improve farm profitability, local food distribut ion and consumption; Increasing community-
based, family farming, distribution, and consumptio n of healthy, locally grown foods, and 
improving skill levels of children, youth, and fami lies in these areas; And increasing available 
knowledge and information on sustainable agricultur al practices relevant to area crops, soils 
and conditions, and available resources. 38  
                                                
36   http://www.reeis.usda.gov/web/crisprojectpages/2182 69.html  
37   From the Waipä Foundation website:  www.waipafoundation.org  
38  http://www.reeis.usda.gov/web/crisprojectpages/2182 69.html   
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 9 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 Goal #1: 
 
Improve local food system infrastructure and self-r eliance by increasing & providing local food 
processing capacity and engaging farmers, consumers  and distribution links to improve local 
farm profitability, local food distribution and loc al food consumption. 
 
Objectives and outputs of Goal #1:  
 
/head2right Construct and equip a state certified community com mercial kitchen and poi mill as a 
community asset completed & available for use by 20 10. By project's end, an increased 
volume, availability and/or diversity of local food s will be available at local farmers 
markets and other venues.  
/head2right Facilitate training and use of either the certified  kitchen or poi mill by 10 local farming 
families, organizations, programs or groups by proj ect year 3.  
/head2right Facilitate increased poi and locally grown produce distribution to 150 families by project 
end. Mill and distribute 500 lbs of poi weekly in t he new facility by end of Year 2, and 750 
pounds per week by end year 3.  
/head2right Create a grassroots, community-based distribution n etwork for poi and kalo by 
establishing relationships and distribution points with organizations or individuals in low-
income communities.  
 
Goal #2 :  
 
Increase community-based, family farming, distribut ion, and consumption of healthy, locally 
grown foods, and improve skill levels of children, youth, and families.  
 
Objectives and outputs of Goal #2 :  
 
/head2right Expand Waipä's half-acre organic garden to one acre  in rotation, and utilize garden and 
existing kalo farms (2 acres) for expanded youth pr ograms and other garden education 
programs for over 250 educational program participa nts/year.  
/head2right Increased capacity and improved sustainability of o ur farm irrigation system with 2 new 
catchment/storage tanks.  
/head2right Enroll at least 40 youth from low-income families i n programs to learn growing, 
marketing, and/or processing healthy, locally grown  food, through hands-on activities 
that utilize the kitchen facility, poi mill, garden  and kalo farm sites.  
/head2right Create paid internships for at least 10 older youth  for 1-3 years in kalo or vegetable 
gardening and food processing. Target 50% managing their own enterprise by project 
end.  
/head2right Expand training opportunities to address community' s specific needs.  
/head2right Host an annual event to showcase and promote tradit ional food skills and knowledge.  
  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 10 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 Goal #3 :  
 
Increase available knowledge and information on sus tainable agricultural practices relevant to 
area crops, local soils, growing conditions and res ources.  
 
Objectives and outputs of Goal #3 :  
 
/head2right Pilot and experiment with sustainable practices in the development and management of 
the expanded 1 acre garden and existing lo`i kalo ( wetland taro fields).  
/head2right Document Waipa's baseline management practices, exp eriments conducted, findings and 
how new practices have improved Waipa's sustainable  management of its resources.  
/head2right Demonstrate and make available to the local farming  community, increased information 
on sustainable agricultural practices relevant to a rea crops, soils & conditions, and 
available resources. 
 
C. Challenges for Economic Development 
 
A licensed commercial kitchen is the core of the pl ans for economic development.  Once this kitchen is  in 
place, Waipä will be able to support efforts to pro duce value-added products that can generate suffici ent 
revenue to provide a fair return for farmers and ge nerate economic opportunities for the community.  T he 
challenge has been to raise the funds as well go th rough the permitting process with the County. It is  
unlikely that Waipä will ever be self-supporting, h owever it may enable businesses to be created and 
farmers to earn a fair return for their produce. 
 
 
VV..  KKEEYY  FFAACCTTOORRSS  TTHHAATT  LLEEDD  TTOO  WWHHEERREE  WWAAIIPPÄÄ  IISS  TTOODDAAYY  
 
The following are major factors that have led Waipä  to the successes they have experienced to date and  
the high likelihood that these successes will conti nue into the future. 
 
/head2right A strong, lasting vision generated and followed thr ough by residents within the community.   
When a group of farmers heard of plans to develop h ousing on the Waipä ahupuaÿa they 
responded with an alternate vision to restore the l and to productive agricultural uses in a 
manner consistent with cultural practices of their ancestors.  A need was identified within a 
community by members of that community that was/is consistent with community cultural 
practices and values. 
 
/head2right Ongoing investment and commitment to developing in- depth plans that are implemented  - 
from the start the founding group and leadership si nce have developed detailed plans that are 
consistent with the vision and that lay out a proce ss for achieving that vision.  The planning 
process has included staff, board members and repre sentatives of the community.  Plans have 
been funded by grants including those from CBED(Com munity Based Economic Development), 
Hawaii Alliance for Community Based Economic Develo pment (HACBED), Office of Hawaiian 
Affairs, Hawaii Community Foundation and Kamehameha  Schools has provided support.  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 11 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 /head2right Implementation was persistent, patient and flexible  to achieve the vision .  It has taken 28 
years for Waipä to develop to where it is today.  T he original implementation plans of HFH have 
changed over time, but the vision has remained rela tively constant.  
 
/head2right Strong skilled leadership  – Stacy Sproat has been the Executive Director of Waipä Foundation 
since 1994.  Her Father was one of the original mem bers of the HFH.  Stacy grew up near the 
Waipä ahupuaÿa and graduated from USC with a degree  in business entrepreneurship. Stacy is 
from the area, which helped with community acceptan ce.  Stacy’s education provided her with 
the background she needed to start a new Foundation , successfully apply for grants, manage 
and supervise staff, and run an ongoing not-for-pro fit with limited staff. Stacy wanted to create 
an organization that could support the Hawaiian com munity particularly “at-risk” students.  
Stacy is an ideal leader for Waipä Foundation. 
 
/head2right Support of Kamehameha Schools  – First as owner of the land, then as landlord, no w as 
landlord, partner and supporter, KS continues to be  an integral part of the success of Waipä 
Foundation.  KS is dedicated to restoring the ahupu aÿa and educating students through 
participation in the process.  These overlapping ob jectives provide Waipä with an understanding 
landlord, a supporter of programs, and a meaningful  partner in planning.  
 
/head2right Partnerships with other not-for-profits and with th e community  –  
 
/head2right The staff of WF has respect for the community and i s respected by the community resulting 
in a great relationship and a community-gathering p lace  – A key element of Waipä today is its 
role as a community-gathering place.  For example, everyone is welcome to participate in Poi Day 
as they clean the kalo, prepare the lunch and share  in fellowship.  Küpuna are respected and they 
feel like useful contributors, many sharing their k nowledge as they train newcomers on the 
process.  The day I visited the site there were küp una who come weekly, young people in their 20’s, 
part-time Kauai residents, staff (paid and unpaid) and people bringing food to add to the group 
lunch.  One “uncle” brought fresh baked rolls, anot her mangoes and still others brought greens 
that they had harvested. All participants recognize  that everyone contributes what they can – 
note Stacy was cooking chicken for the lunch as we talked.   
 
/head2right Dedicated staff  – many of the staff began their relationship with Waipa Foundation as 
volunteers and have been with the organization for years.   They are selected based on their 
understanding of the community; focus on the vision  and time in the Waipä community building 
their knowledge base.  Staff is experienced and fru gal; they understand how to fulfill many roles 
and will jump in to complete any task necessary.  S taff is rotated based on skills which leads to 
rounded managers for the future. 
 
  
Waipa Foundation Case Study  Page 12 
© SMS , Inc.  September,  2010 VVII..  LLEESSSSOONNSS  LLEEAARRNNEEDD  
 
When Stacy Sproat was asked what she would consider  important for other Executive Directors of new 
ventures to understand she provided the following i nsights: 
 
/head2right Efforts must be driven by a vision that comes from within the community.  However the 
organization need not be totally community-based.  It may be better to rely on active supporters 
with similar values who are dedicated to realizing the vision.  In this way plans are less likely to b e 
stymied by detractors or doubters or those who want  to do things “their way.”  Overtime with 
successes more people will be drawn to the project.  
 
/head2right The Executive Director (ED) needs to learn the task s before training/leading others.  In a small 
organization the ED must have a hands-on understand ing of the tasks that need to be 
accomplished, so they can guide others and plan app ropriately for the future. 
 
/head2right The ED needs to have the skills required to manage multi-generations.  Consistent with Hawaiian 
values küpuna need to be respected and valued.  
 
/head2right Attract dedicated people with the core skill sets –  ie., background in child education.  Maintain 
values that are consistent with those of the commun ity. 
 
/head2right Encourage ideas that are consistent with the vision .  No one knows everything, all ideas are 
valued if they are contributing to the vision. 
 
/head2right Start small, plan, implement in steps, persevere, a nd retain the vision.  At first everything that 
needs to be done can appear overwhelming, take it o ne step at a time setting realistic outcomes 
and meeting timetables.   Planning is important, bu t can be done concurrently with 
implementation – don’t stop the implementation to p lan. 
 
/head2right Recognize the inter-connectedness of a community.  Communities must be healthy, young people 
must be educated and provided with opportunities; e conomic development is one aspect of the 
whole community. 
 
/head2right Learn from others, meet with others in similar posi tions within other organizations; share your 
challenges and ideas.  It’s not necessary to reinve nt the wheel.  
 
  
   Beyond Information.  Intelligence. 
EEssttaabblliisshheedd  11996600  
  
CCAASSEE  SSTTUUDDYY::  
  
  
HHAANNDDMMAADDEE  IINN  AAMMEERRIICCAA  
  
 
 
PPrreeppaarreedd  JJuullyy,,  22001100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CC CCCC CCee eeee eellllllllee eeee eebb bbbb bbrr rrrr rraa aaaa aatt tttt ttiiiiiiiinn nnnn nngg gggg gg        55 5555 5500 0000 00        yy yyyy yyee eeee eeaa aaaa aarr rrrr rrss ssss ss        oo oooo ooff ffff ff        SS SSSS SSee eeee eerr rrrr rrvv vvvv vviiiiiiiicc cccc ccee eeee ee        
  
   
Consulting 
 
Database Marketing 
 
Economic & Social Impact 
   Studies 
 
Research 
 
Training 
 
 
 
 
SMS 
 
1042 Fort Street Mall 
Suite 200 
Honolulu, HI  96813 
Ph: (808) 537-3356 
Toll Free (877) 535-5767 
Fax: (808) 537-2686 
E-mail: info@smshawaii.com 
Website:  www.smshawaii.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SMS  Affiliations and Associations: 
 
Experian 
International Survey Research 
Interviewing Service of America 
PCR Environmental, Inc. - Guam 
Solutions Pacific, LLC 
Ka‘ala Souza Training 
3i Marketing & Communications 
  HHAANNDDMMAADDEE  IINN  AAMMEERRIICCAA  TTAABBLLEE  OOFF  CCOONNTTEENNTTSS  
 
 
BACKGROUND ......................................... ................................................... .............................................1  
REGIONAL ........................................... ................................................... ................................................ 1 
ECONOMIC CONTEXT................................... ................................................... .................................... 1 
GENESIS OF AN IDEA................................. ................................................... .........................................2  
DEVELOPMENT OF THE IDEA ............................ ................................................... .............................3  
DEFINING THE VISION ................................ ................................................... ..................................... 3 
SELLING THE VISION................................. ................................................... ....................................... 3 
EXECUTING THE PLAN ................................. ................................................... ................................... 4 
OVERVIEW OF THE ORGANIZATION....................... ................................................... .....................5  
GUIDING PRINCIPLES ................................. ................................................... ...................................... 5 
STRUCTURE .......................................... ................................................... .............................................. 5 
AREA SERVED ........................................ ................................................... ............................................ 5 
PROGRAMS........................................... ................................................... ............................................... 6 
APPALACHIAN WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS (AWE).............. ................................................... ..6 
CRAFT ACROSS THE CURRICULUM........................ ................................................... ..................6 
SMALL TOWN REVITALIZATION PROGRAM .................. ................................................... ........7 
CRAFT, ARCHITECTURE AND DESIGN ..................... ................................................... ................7 
THE HANDMADE INSTITUTE ............................. ................................................... .........................7 
ECONOMIC IMPACT .................................... ................................................... .......................................8  
KEYS TO SUCCESS.................................... ................................................... .........................................10  
APPENDIX........................................... ................................................... ..................................................1 1  
APPENDIX A:  HANDMADE IN AMERICA’S LEADERSHIP TEAM. ............................................ 11 
APPENDIX B:  HISTORY AND MILESTONES ................ ................................................... .............. 12 
APPENDIX C:  BIOGRAPHY OF REBECCA ANDERSON......... ................................................... ... 14 
APPENDIX D:  TABULATIONS........................... ................................................... ............................ 15 
 
  TTAABBLLEESS  
 
TABLE D-1. E CONOMIC INDICATORS – P OPULATION AND INCOME , 1990-2000 ...............................15 
TABLE D-2. E CONOMIC INDICATORS – H OUSING , 1990-2000........................................ ................16 
TABLE D-3. E CONOMIC INDICATORS – P OPULATION , 1990-2008........................................ ...........17 
TABLE D-4. E CONOMIC INDICATORS – I NCOME , 1990-2008 ........................................ ..................18 
TABLE D-5. E CONOMIC INDICATORS – P UBLIC ASSISTANCE INCOME , 1990-2008...........................19 
TABLE D-6. E CONOMIC INDICATORS – H OUSING , 1990-2008........................................ ................20 
TABLE D-7. E CONOMIC INDICATORS – H OUSING (CONTINUED ), 1990-2008....................................21 
 
 
 
 
EEXXHHIIBBIITTSS  
 
 
EXHIBIT 1.  T WENTY -TWO COUNTIES SERVED BY HAND MADE IN AMERICA ...................................... 6 
 
 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 1 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 BBAACCKKGGRROOUUNNDD  
 
 
RREEGGIIOONNAALL  
 
Western North Carolina is situated in a gap of the Appalachian Mountains that runs from the 
southeast to the Midwest plateau. It is generally c onsidered as the area bounded by the 
Tennessee border to the West, Georgia and South Caro lina to the South, Virginia to the North, 
and the Blue Ridge Mountains to the East.  The cultur al heritage of the area is a blend of 
Cherokee Indian and European settlers that dates ba ck to the mid-1500s.  Residents of this 
region have always demonstrated an independent, det ermined spirit, as evidenced in the 1780s 
by multiple attempts at achieving statehood for thi s portion of the state. 
 
In 1824, the turnpike running from Saluda Gap in Bunc ombe County through Asheville to the 
Tennessee line was completed.  This brought a surge  of travelers to Western North Carolina. In 
February of 1855, the Great Western North Carolina Railroad was established and brought 
another large influx of people to this area.  Curre ntly served by Interstates 40 and 26, and 
bounded by Interstates 85 and 77, this area is with in a single day's drive of fully half of the 
American populace. While the major highways run east  and west through the gaps of the 
mountains, the scenic Blue Ridge Parkway runs serves as the region's north-south connector. 
 
Western North Carolina boasts several unique assets .  It contains some of the oldest, most 
majestic mountains in the world.  At an elevation of  6,684 feet, Mount Mitchell is the highest 
peak east of the Mississippi River.  Western North Carolina also serves as a biodiversity 
hotspot, and home to a large number of talented cra ft artists. 
 
 
EECCOONNOOMMIICC  CCOONNTTEEXXTT  
 
Western North Carolina entered the 1990s with mixed  economic indicators.  The tourism sector 
was experiencing notable gains, as indicated by sub stantial increases in revenue and in 
requests for information.  Less encouraging, howeve r, were declines in residential construction 
(22 percent), commercial construction (28 percent),  and new car sales (4 percent). Employment 
growth was predicted to be only 2 percent annually.39   
 
With close to 13 percent of the population of Weste rn North Carolina living at or below the 
poverty threshold in 2000, the need for economic de velopment was clear 40  . Data published by 
the US Census Bureau indicated the annual median hous ehold income for this area was only 
slightly above $31,000.  Almost one-quarter of the n early 303,000 housing units are renter-
occupied. 
 
                                                
39   "Western N.C. economy enters 1990 with mixed indica tors. (North Carolina)." PR Newswire . PR Newswire 
Association LLC. 1990. Retrieved July 05, 2010 from  HighBeam Research: http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-
8231154.html  
40   US Census Bureau Decennial Census 2000.  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 2 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 GGEENNEESSIISS  OOFF  AANN  IIDDEEAA  
 
 
In 1993, Western North Carolina native Becky Anderson  was working as the development 
director for the city of Asheville.  During a recrui ting trip to New York she encountered a 
gentleman at the American Craft Council who was also  from Western North Carolina.  He 
queried her about why she was up in New York chasing  after “another smokestack” when there 
was an invisible industry already in place in that region.  They began a conversation that rapidly 
evolved into the vision that would become HandMade in America.  Their discussion centered on 
the need for an innovative approach to economic dev elopment for the region.  They believed 
that economic revitalization wasn’t necessarily dep endent upon enticing modern industry to the 
area, rather that the invisible industry of talente d craft artists working throughout the Blue Ridge 
Mountains were the key to sustainable economic deve lopment.  
 
A three-year organizational development grant by the  Pew Partnership for Civic Change gave 
the organization its start in December, 1993.  For several years, HandMade in America officially 
consisted of Becky Anderson and one part-time assista nt.  There were, however, a core group 
of 360 local residents who participated in a region al planning process focused on a common 
goal of growing the economy through craft, cultural  heritage and the community assets of 
Western North Carolina.  In doing so, Handmade in Am erica has succeeded in establishing 
Western North Carolina as the center of handmade cr afts in the United States.  
 
Although its current mission statement reflects mino r revisions, the purpose of the organization 
remains the same: 
 
 
 
HandMade in America's mission is to grow handmade e conomies through 
craft, cultural heritage and community assets. 
 
 
 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 3 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 DDEEVVEELLOOPPMMEENNTT  OOFF  TTHHEE  IIDDEEAA  
 
 
DDEEFFIINNIINNGG  TTHHEE  VVIISSIIOONN  
 
As the plan to revitalize the Western North Carolina  region began to develop, Becky Anderson 
and others asked several key questions: 
 
1. What are our natural assets? 
2. How can we encourage product development ideas? 
3. What is the target market and what will appeal t o those consumers? 
 
 
SSEELLLLIINNGG  TTHHEE  VVIISSIIOONN  
 
In order to share their ideas and solicit input fro m community members, the core group 
facilitated public informational meetings in every county.  These were often informal discussions 
about the needs of the community, the concerns of t he residents, and their desires for the 
future. 
 
Economic considerations are important, of course, in  garnering support for an idea.  To that 
end, HandMade conducted a study in 1994 of a 20-cou nty area in North Carolina.  This 
research found that handmade objects created by app roximately 4,000 craftspeople were 
contributing approximately $122 million a year to t he area's economy. Over $70 million of that 
total came from retail shops and galleries; almost $26 million came from full-time professional 
artists and artisans; and $23 million came from par t-time, second-income producers.  
 
The result of these efforts was a 20-year strategic  plan for the organization.  At the center of this 
plan were five broad goals. 
 
/head2right Developing community strategies that will collectiv ely enhance Western North Carolina's 
role nationally and internationally within the hand made field.  
/head2right Establishing an academic base to promote crafts thro ughout all levels of education as 
objects, subject and process.  
/head2right Developing a communications plan that establishes W estern North Carolina's role as the 
center for HandMade in America.  
/head2right Implementing environmentally sustainable economic s trategies for Western North 
Carolina that emphasize the handmade industry.  
/head2right Implementing strategies that will enhance opportuni ties for handmade object makers 
within Western North Carolina, and encouraging the public, private and nonprofit sectors 
to develop independent and interdependent vehicles that build the handmade industry. 
 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 4 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 EEXXEECCUUTTIINNGG  TTHHEE  PPLLAANN  
 
Armed with a large group of passionate, committed in dividuals and a good indication of the 
importance of crafts to the economy of Western Nort h Carolina, HandMade in America began to 
change the face of this region. 
 
Just three years after it began, the organization p ublished a 120-page guidebook, The Craft 
Heritage Trails of Western North Carolina, which li sts hundreds of galleries, studios, and shops, 
in addition to historic inns, bed-and-breakfasts, a nd restaurants serving traditional regional 
cuisine. In the course of detailing tourist routes and tours, the leaders of four towns—Chimney 
Rock Village, Mars Hill, Andrews, and Bakersville—disc overed a common interest in downtown 
revitalization 41 .  They also found that they were too small to hire  professional planners or to 
participate in the North Carolina Main Street Program .  
 
Becky Anderson and HandMade in America stepped in and secured support from the Kathleen 
Price Bryan Family Fund for what would become the Rur al Small Town Revitalization Project. 
The funding obtained by HandMade supports planning and training activities, with a small 
amount allocated to project grants that must be mat ched locally. To reinforce the focus on 
cooperation over competition, a provision for all p roject grants states that if even one town is 
unable to raise its matching funds, none of the tow ns receive grants.   
 
 
 
Like the early pioneers, the founders of HandMade i n America held a common 
vision for a better tomorrow. Guided by their convi ction that the inheritance of 
creative culture throughout the Blue Ridge Mountains  was an untapped – but 
potentially commanding – source of regional revenue , their goals were clear but 
the territory was uncharted. From the outset, HandM ade sought to cultivate 
community-based economic strategies that would nour ish a way of life steeped in 
tradition, rather than let it slip away little by l ittle as artisans began to look to 
manufacturing jobs for sustenance. Since that time, the organization has become 
widely respected for its successful stewardship ini tiatives in strengthening the 
handmade industry of Western North Carolina. As para digms continue to shift, 
sustainable solutions such as these are now at the center of national 
conversation, and today’s astute design professiona ls are not only talking – 
they’re taking action. 
 
— From the preface of Sourcebook of Architectural E lements 
 
 
 
                                                
41   Two additional towns, Robbinsville and West Jeffe rson, have been added to the original four.  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 5 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 OOVVEERRVVIIEEWW  OOFF  TTHHEE  OORRGGAANNIIZZAATTIIOONN  
 
 
GGUUIIDDIINNGG  PPRRIINNCCIIPPLLEESS  
 
HandMade in America attributes much of its continued  success to seven guiding principles that 
clearly delineate those things valued most highly b y the organization: 
 
/head2right The handmade object and the artists who create it. Craft is an integral part of economic 
development. The creation and appreciation of the h andmade object is transformative to 
individuals and communities.  
/head2right Cultural heritage. Honoring arts, artists and cultu ral traditions in a region preserves and 
enriches community life.  
/head2right Sustainable development. The people in communities s erve as the best resource to 
understand their challenges and opportunities and t o seek and find solutions.  
/head2right Inclusion. It is vital, and all are welcome to part icipate.  
/head2right The regional approach. All communities come to the t able with distinct assets and the 
opportunity to contribute and learn together across  perceived boundaries.  
/head2right Partnerships.  People, the communities, and the regio n are best served by individuals 
and organizations working cooperatively.  
/head2right Innovation. Creativity is essential in finding and implementing workable solutions.  
 
 
SSTTRRUUCCTTUURREE  
 
The work of HandMade in America is presently organiz ed into two entities: the HandMade in 
America Foundation and the HandMade in America Commun ity Development Corporation.  The 
Board of the Foundation works to establish an academ ic base to promote crafts throughout all 
levels of education as object, subject and process;  and to develop community strategies that will 
collectively enhance Western North Carolina's role nationally and internationally within the 
handmade field. The Community Development Corporati on’s Board develops community 
strategies that will enhance Western North Carolina 's role nationally and internationally within 
the handmade field; and implements environmentally sustainable economic strategies for 
Western North Carolina that emphasize the handmade industry and cultural and heritage 
tourism. 
 
 
AARREEAA  SSEERRVVEEDD  
 
HandMade in America serves a 22-county area of Weste rn North Carolina including: Alleghany, 
Ashe, Avery, Buncombe, Burke, Cherokee, Clay, Cleveland , Graham, Haywood, Henderson, 
Jackson, Macon, Madison, McDowell, Mitchell, Polk, Rutherford, Swain, Transylvania, Watauga, 
and Yancey counties.  The region spans from the Virgi nia border in the north, west to the 
Tennessee border, to the Georgia and South Carolina borders in the south; and across the 
eastern plateau toward Hickory. 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 6 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 Exhibit 1.  Twenty-two Counties Served by HandMade in America 
 
 
 
 
PPRROOGGRRAAMMSS  
 
AAppppaallaacchhiiaann  WWoommeenn  EEnnttrreepprreenneeuurrss  ((AAWWEE))  
 
HandMade in America developed the Appalachian Women En trepreneurs (AWE) program in 
2007 to support rural Western North Carolina women interested in creating or growing their 
small business. The AWE program helps to connect the se women to one another, valuable 
resources and markets for their products.  The goal  of the program is to connect women 
engaged in similar entrepreneurial efforts and prov ide access to business support services the 
women might not be able to access or afford as indi viduals. 
 
 
CCrraafftt  AAccrroossss  tthhee  CCuurrrriiccuulluumm    
 
The Craft Across the Curriculum program is a collabo rative effort that brings teachers and local 
craft artists together in schools and communities. Currently operating only in elementary schools 
throughout Buncombe County, this program shows teach ers creative ways to incorporate local 
craft into their lesson plans.  The goal is to enha nce the educational experience of children in 
Western North Carolina by including information abo ut local artists and their crafts into all 
possible aspects of the curriculum. 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 7 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 SSmmaallll  TToowwnn  RReevviittaalliizzaattiioonn  PPrrooggrraamm    
 
The Small Towns program applies community-driven me thods for rejuvenating the physical and 
civic infrastructure of a community by utilizing an  asset-based planning approach in Western 
North Carolina’s small towns.  A smaller-scale versi on of the Main Street Four-Point Approach, 
the Revitalization Program provides the tools requir ed for towns to revitalize their districts by 
leveraging local assets and working together to bui ld a sustainable community. 
 
Because many rural communities are typically too sma ll to have a wealth of professional 
managers and planners, HandMade in America helps to develop leadership capacity in these 
communities.  There are presently 13 small towns in  10 Western North Carolina counties 
benefitting from their participation in the Small T own Revitalization Program. 
 
 
CCrraafftt,,  AArrcchhiitteeccttuurree  aanndd  DDeessiiggnn  
 
The Craft, Architecture and Design program connects craft artists who produce custom 
architectural elements and home furnishings with de sign and building professionals.  This 
program develops marketing strategies and hosts spe cial events to bring together local artists 
with area builders, architects and designers.  Nume rous publications, such as the Sourcebook 
of Handcrafted Home Furnishings and Design Element a nd the Online Handcrafted Design 
Source, help to educate the public about the benefit s of collaboration with local artists.  
 
Most recently, HandMade in America hosted a two-day event in which the public joined artists, 
architects, builders and designers to share and lea rn about successful collaborations between 
craft artists, homeowners and industry professional s. Called HandMade: The Western North 
Carolina Craft, Architecture & Design Expo, this event  emphasized craftsmanship in 
architectural elements and design for both high-end  and mid-range home markets. 
 
 
TThhee  HHaannddMMaaddee  IInnssttiittuuttee  
 
Created in 2004, the HandMade Institute is an educa tional division of HandMade in America.  
Unlike the Small Towns program that is primarily foc used on Western North Carolina, the 
HandMade Institute helps other communities develop regional, place-based strategies for 
sustainable and creative economic development. Draw ing on a decade of lessons learned, the 
HandMade Institute utilize a series of instructiona l programs, studio visits, training products, and 
custom consultations to help others apply the succe ssful models of HandMade in America to 
their communities. The HandMade Institute provides practical training solutions to benefit every 
community and organization focusing on creative eco nomies.   
 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 8 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 EECCOONNOOMMIICC  IIMMPPAACCTT  
 
 
According to a 2004 study, revealed that the Small To wn Revitalization program sponsored by 
HandMade has had a remarkable impact on the communi ties of Western North Carolina.  In its 
first 11 years, HandMade has 
 
/head2right assisted 13 small towns; 
/head2right created 238 businesses;  
/head2right expanded or enhanced 79 businesses; 
/head2right created 300 new jobs ; 
/head2right increased craft’s impact on the region’s economy  
/head2right educated the public about the history and heritage of the unique and culturally rich area; 
/head2right increased tourism; 
/head2right enhanced the educational experience of local studen ts; and 
/head2right created a development model for rural communities n ationwide. 
 
Most notably, a 2008 study 42  on the Economic Impact of the Professional Craft In dustry in 
Western North Carolina revealed that the total econ omic impact of the industry was 
$206,500,000: 
 
/head2right Craft Artists:  $86,200,000 
/head2right Craft Consumers:  $31,500,000 
/head2right Craft Retail Galleries:  $57,700,000 
/head2right Craft Schools:  $11,800,000 
/head2right Craft Non-profit Organizations:  $4,400,000 
/head2right Craft Suppliers and Publishers:  $15,500,000 
 
HandMade also monitors how many craft businesses fi le Schedule C forms with their tax returns 
and the nature of those documents to evaluate the l evel of success of local craftspeople.  Less 
quantitative outcome measures are also employed.  F or the Appalachian Women Entrepreneurs 
program, HandMade reports that their original goal was for 80 percent of participating 
businesses to demonstrate an increase in income of at least 20 percent.  While the current 
economic situation has made that an impossible goal  to attain, they consider the fact that only 
five of the participants have gone out of business as indicative of the success of the program.  
HandMade does plan to conduct an annual survey of e ach of the 300 local craftsmen who 
participated in their recent Craft and Design Expo to determine the economic impact of that 
event to those businesses.  These survey results wi ll be used to help determine the course of 
future events. 
 
The influence of HandMade in America on the economy of the region is also indicated in data 
collected by the U.S. Census Bureau.  Indicators of t he economic health of a region, such as 
median household income, percentage of households r eceiving public assistance, and median 
home value, suggest that conditions in Western Nort h Carolina have improved at a greater rate 
than that of the state as a whole 43 .  Between 1990 and 2000, Western North Carolina ach ieved 
a notably larger increase in both the median househ old income and per capita income than was 
                                                
42   Data conducted and analyzed by DESS Business Rese arch 
43   See Appendix Tables D-1 through D-7  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 9 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 observed for the state as a whole.  Similarly, the m edian value for homes in the region saw 
larger increases than occurred statewide.  Between 1 990 and 2008, the number of households 
in Western North Carolina receiving public assistan ce income fell 70 percent.  These economic 
gains are likely due, at least in part, to the infl uence of HandMade in America on the region. 
 
As is true for non-profit organizations nationwide, HandMade in America has struggled to 
maintain its programs and secure new funding since the global economic recession began in 
the first quarter of 2008.  During the summer of 20 10 they have had to let go of two staff 
members.  Dependency on grant and federal funding i n the current economic climate is clearly 
problematic and they are diligently searching for c reative funding opportunities. 
 
 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 10 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 KKEEYYSS  TTOO  SSUUCCCCEESSSS  
 
 
Industry analysts and executives with HandMade in Am erica attribute their level of success to 
several factors: 
 
1. Listening to what the artists wanted, from the o utset of the initiative and at each stage in 
its development, and developing the initiatives acc ordingly. 
 
2. Having a charismatic, knowledgeable leader is es sential to the success of the endeavor.  
Although it is not mandatory that the leader be a lo cal resident, it does lend a certain 
amount of credibility to the cause. 
 
3. Initial grant funding and corporate donations ar e critical to the upstart of any community 
revitalization effort. HandMade in America received no sizable private donations for the 
first several years. 
 
4. Development of a long-term development strategy,  a 20-year plan in the case of 
HandMade in America, is required to clearly communic ate long-range goals and ensure 
that efforts align with the identified goals. 
 
5. A strong network of partners, including other non profit organizations, government 
agencies, local and national businesses and major e ducational institutions, is vital to the 
success of community revitalization efforts. 
 
The top priority with regard to ongoing challenges is marketing.  Identifying the most effective 
ways to promote the artists and their work, and the refore connect with the marketplace, remains 
at the forefront of HandMade’s discussions. 44   
 
 
                                                
44   Additional information is available at http://www .unctv.org/ncrising/projects/handmade/index.html .  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 11 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 AAPPPPEENNDDIIXX  
 
 
AAPPPPEENNDDIIXX  AA::    HHAANNDDMMAADDEE  IINN  AAMMEERRIICCAA’’SS  LLEEAADDEERRSSHHIIPP  TTEEAAMM  
 
EElliizzaabbeetthh  RRuusssseellll  
erussell@handmadeinamerica.org 
 
Elizabeth is serving as Interim Executive Director fo r HandMade in America.  She has a strong 
background with Community Development Corporations,  serving as Executive Director for 
Eagle / Market Streets Development Corporation in Ash eville for many years. 
 
JJeennnnyy  MMoooorree  
jmoore@handmadeinamerica.org  / (828) 252-0121  ext. 303  
 
As Associate Director, Jenny works closely with all p rogram directors and development efforts 
to ensure HandMade’s efforts align with its mission . She is also the project manager for the 
Craft, Architecture and Design Program. She joined H andMade in 2006. 
 
BBeettttyy  HHuurrsstt  
bhurst@handmadeinamerica.org  / (828) 252-0121ext. 302  
 
Betty has been with HandMade since 2001.  She curren tly serves as the Director of Rural 
Entrepreneurship and project manager for the Appalach ian Women Entrepreneurs Program. 
 
JJuuddii  JJeettssoonn  
jjetson@handmadeinamerica.org  / (828) 252-0121  ext. 304  
 
New to HandMade this year, Judi is the Small Towns Pr ogram Coordinator who manages the 
operations of the 13 towns participating in the pro gram. She also assists the communities with 
work planning, grant management and technical assis tance with organization, design, 
promotion and economic development. 
 
NNoorrmmaa  BBrraaddlleeyy  
nbradley@handmadeinamerica.org  
 
Norma joined HandMade in America in 2001. As Director  of Education she oversees and 
coordinates the Craft Across The Curriculum program.  She also oversees and coordinates the 
exhibit at the North Carolina I-26 Visitors Center i n Madison County. 
 
JJaanniieeccee  MMeeeekk  
jmeek@handmadeinamerica.org  / (828) 252-0121 ext. 306  
 
In 2007, Janiece joined HandMade as Communications Director and wrote a communications 
plan for the organization. In 2008, she returned as  Development Director. She uses her 
expertise in communications to build solid relation ships with HandMade in America’s 
constituents and works to ensure a sustainable futu re and pattern of growth. 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 12 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 AAPPPPEENNDDIIXX  BB::    HHIISSTTOORRYY  AANNDD  MMIILLEESSTTOONNEESS  
 
1993 In December, HandMade in America receives a thr ee-year organizational development 
 from the Pew Partnership for Civic Change to formula te ideas. 
 
1994  Regional planning process ensues with more th an 360 citizens on how to achieve the 
 HandMade purpose: make Western North Carolina the geographic center of handmade 
 objects in the U.S.  Set of 20-year goals and guidin g principles established. 
 
1995  In partnership with Appalachian State Universit y, HandMade in America conducts 
 landmark survey to measure economic contribution o f crafts in 22 counties in Western 
 North Carolina: $122 million annually, or four tim es the revenue generated from burley 
 tobacco, the state’s number one cash crop.  Full-t ime professional producers provide 
 $25.6 million in incomes while second income or pa rt-time producers contribute $22.7 
 million in income annually. Retail shops and galle ries produce craft sales of $70.8 
 million annually. 
 
 The Center for Craft, Creativity and Design (CCCD)  is created as a region center to 
 support and advance craft, creativity and design i n education and research, and through 
 community collaborations, to demonstrate how they provide solutions for community 
 issues.  
 
1996  In Spring, Craft Heritage Trails of Western North Carolina guidebook debuts as the 
 nation’s first trail system linking craft and heri tage sites in a region. 
 
 With financial assistance from the Kathleen Price Br yan Family Fund, HandMade begins 
 renewal and revitalization efforts in small towns across Western North Carolina. The 
 Small Towns Project quickly expands to provide mento ring, technical assistance, self-
 help and cross community learning practices to mor e than a dozen towns.  
 
1997  The documentary photography exhibit, By Our Hands , is organized by HandMade to 
 celebrate the handcrafted object and the creative process of artists. 
 
1998 Southern Highland Craft Guild enters into partn ership with HandMade in America 
and the Kenan Institute for the Arts to create and la unch a Craft Education Initiative where craft 
is used as an educational tool in lesson plans and curriculum for elementary schools. 
 
1999 Creation of the Energy Xchange.  The pilot proje ct created the first glass and 
ceramic craft business incubator studios powered by  landfill methane gas. It expands to include 
a greenhouse project and quickly becomes model for the rest of the nation. 
 
2001  Craft Organization Director’s Association (COD A) releases new national craft economic 
 impact study conducted by HandMade in America and Ap palachian State University 
 School of Business. 
 
2002  On behalf of ARC and National Endowment for the  Arts, HandMade hosts Building 
 Creative Economies: The Arts, Entrepreneurship and Sus tainable Development in 
 Appalachia conference for more than 350 delegates.  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 13 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 2003  Third edition of the Craft Heritage Trails guidebook published with more than 500 
 listings. 
 
 Craft Registry, HandMade’s on-line listing of arti sts, galleries and events debuts and 
 quickly expands to include more than 500 entries. 
 
 HandMade helps secure designation of the Blue Ridg e National Heritage Area to 
 preserve, enhance, market and manage the 25-county  region of Western North Carolina. 
 Four themes are identified for the regional effort : 1) Cherokee; 2) Blue Ridge Music; 3) 
 Craft; and 4) Agriculture. 
 
2004  HandMade surveys Asheville’s commercial core to determine impact of creative 
 economy downtown. Total annual real estate value d etermined as $61.6 million. 
 
 
  
Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 14 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 AAPPPPEENNDDIIXX  CC::    BBIIOOGGRRAAPPHHYY  OOFF  RREEBBEECCCCAA  AANNDDEERRSSOONN4455  
 
Rebecca “Becky” Anderson is the former Executive Direc tor of HandMade in America, which 
has received international attention for the multip le ways it sustains cultures and economies. As 
a “seventh-generation native” of Western North Caro lina and true pioneer of place-based 
tourism, Becky has been involved in community redev elopment work for over thirty years, 
including housing rehabilitation, day care, water a nd sewer projects. She spent twelve years as 
the City of Asheville’s downtown development directo r and director of economic development 
for the Asheville Chamber of Commerce before launchi ng HandMade in 1994.  
 
As founder and director of  HandMade in America she c oordinated major projects involving 
3,500 citizens and over twenty partnerships with lo cal, regional, and state organizations and 
institutions.  Becky served as a consultant for heri tage and cultural tourism and economic 
development projects related to arts and crafts bot h nationally and internationally.   
 
In 2000, U.S. News and World Report named her as on e of America’s top 20 visionaries for her 
work in community and civic development. In 2003, W orth Magazine ranked HandMade in 
America as one of the top 24 arts nonprofits in the country that give “the biggest bang for your 
buck” and represent “the best of our country’s cult ure.” 
 
HandMade in America's success stems from Anderson's unflinching resolve to involve whole 
communities in whatever she does, says Wayne Martin , folklife director for the North Carolina 
Arts Council in Raleigh. "She does grassroots plannin g as well as anyone I know. It makes a big 
difference when you speak to people throughout a co mmunity, not just the elected decision 
makers, and find out their ideas and then implement  them in creative ways," he says. "Becky 
was also one of the first to put a living cultural resource at the center of heritage development. 
Up to that point, much of heritage development had been focused on historic preservation or 
recreation, such as rivers, mountains, and old hous es. Becky broke that wide open and brought 
attention to the fact that the region's living cult ure is perhaps one of its most important assets." 
Living cultural resources are at the heart of HandM ade in America's mission to celebrate and 
support working farmers, artists, and artisans curr ently flourishing in the region. 
 
 
 
                                                
45   http://www.arc.gov/magazine/articles.asp?ARTICLE_ID =42&F_ISSUE_ID=&F_CATEGORY_ID=12  
  Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 15 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 AAPPPPEENNDDIIXX  DD::    TTAABBUULLAATTIIOONNSS  
 Table D-1. Economic Indicators – Population and Inc ome, 1990-2000 
 
1990 2000 Pct 
Change 1990 2000 Pct 
Change 1990 2000 Pct 
Change 1990 2000 Pct 
Change 1990 2000 Pct 
Change 
Alleghany County 9,590 10,677 11.3% 3,911 4,601 17.6% $18, 476 $29,244 58.3% $10,237 $17,691 72.8% 252 118 -53.2% 
Ashe County 22,209 24,384 9.8% 8,872 10,394 17.2% $18,951 $ 28,824 52.1% $9,545 $16,429 72.1% 831 229 -72.4% 
Av ery County 14,867 17,167 15.5% 5,439 6,521 19.9% $20,403 $30,627 50.1% $9,729 $15,176 56.0% 475 224 -52.8% 
Buncombe County 174,821 206,330 18.0% 70,755 85,743 21.2% $25,847 $36,666 41.9% $13,211 $20,384 54.3% 4,102 2,404 -41 .4% 
Burke County 75,744 89,148 17.7% 29,237 34,566 18.2% $25,8 79 $35,629 37.7% $11,604 $17,397 49.9% 1,613 867 -46.2% 
Cherokee County 20,170 24,298 20.5% 7,919 10,301 30.1% $19 ,625 $27,992 42.6% $9,258 $15,814 70.8% 682 313 -54.1% 
Clay County 7,155 8,775 22.6% 2,918 3,842 31.7% $18,532 $31 ,397 69.4% $9,456 $18,221 92.7% 310 127 -59.0% 
Clev eland County 84,714 96,287 13.7% 31,980 37,047 15.8% $ 26,476 $35,283 33.3% $11,875 $17,395 46.5% 2,502 1,218 -51. 3% 
Graham County 7,196 7,993 11.1% 2,776 3,375 21.6% $16,754 $ 26,645 59.0% $8,877 $14,237 60.4% 284 86 -69.7% 
Haywood County 46,942 54,033 15.1% 19,162 23,113 20.6% $22 ,462 $33,922 51.0% $11,731 $18,554 58.2% 1,273 636 -50.0% 
Henderson County 69,285 89,173 28.7% 28,767 37,467 30.2% $ 26,967 $38,109 41.3% $13,702 $21,110 54.1% 1,352 763 -43.6%
Jackson County 26,846 33,121 23.4% 9,755 13,168 35.0% $21, 520 $32,552 51.3% $10,326 $17,582 70.3% 697 367 -47.3% 
McDowell County 35,681 42,151 18.1% 13,719 16,586 20.9% $2 2,562 $32,396 43.6% $10,516 $16,109 53.2% 782 424 -45.8% 
Macon County 23,499 29,811 26.9% 9,843 12,855 30.6% $20,45 0 $32,139 57.2% $11,017 $18,642 69.2% 671 257 -61.7% 
Madison County 16,953 19,635 15.8% 6,513 7,996 22.8% $18,9 56 $30,985 63.5% $9,149 $16,076 75.7% 704 272 -61.4% 
Mitchell County 14,433 15,687 8.7% 5,729 6,580 14.9% $20,5 54 $30,508 48.4% $10,219 $15,933 55.9% 570 145 -74.6% 
Polk County 14,416 18,324 27.1% 6,058 7,887 30.2% $26,801 $ 36,259 35.3% $14,213 $19,804 39.3% 259 164 -36.7% 
Rutherford County 56,918 62,899 10.5% 22,157 25,174 13.6% $23,828 $31,122 30.6% $11,287 $16,270 44.1% 1,338 925 -30.9 % 
Swain County 11,268 12,968 15.1% 4,244 5,131 20.9% $16,068 $28,608 78.0% $8,922 $14,647 64.2% 599 117 -80.5% 
Transylv ania County 25,520 29,334 14.9% 10,001 12,370 23. 7% $25,179 $38,587 53.3% $12,737 $20,767 63.0% 583 277 -52.5 % 
Watauga County 36,952 42,695 15.5% 13,654 16,552 21.2% $20 ,252 $32,611 61.0% $10,628 $17,258 62.4% 558 197 -64.7% 
Yancey County 15,419 17,774 15.3% 6,090 7,477 22.8% $19,40 1 $29,674 53.0% $9,462 $16,335 72.6% 577 209 -63.8% 
Western North Carolina 810,598 952,664 17.5% 319,499 388,746 21.7% $20,500 $31,768 55.0% $10,805 $17,356 60.6% 21,014 10,339 -50.8% 
STATE OF N.C. 6,628,637 8,049,313 21.4% 2,517,098 3,133,282 24.5% $26,647 $39,184 47.0% $12,885 $20,307 57.6% 173,270 86,373 -50.2% Total Population Total Households 
Geography Median Household Income Households with Public 
Assistance Income Per Capita Income 
 
  Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 16 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 Table D-2. Economic Indicators – Housing, 1990-2000  
 
Geography 1990 2000 Pct 
Change 1990 2000 Pct 
Change 1990 2000 Pct 
Change 1990 2000 Pct 
Change 
Alleghany County 5,344 6,412 20.0% 3,894 4,593 18.0% 3,114 3,627 16.5% $49,600 $89,700 80.8% 
Ashe County 11,119 13,268 19.3% 8,848 10,411 17.7% 7,314 8, 436 15.3% $57,200 $91,600 60.1% 
Avery County 8,923 11,911 33.5% 5,520 6,532 18.3% 4,471 5,2 59 17.6% $54,800 $88,000 60.6% 
Buncombe County 77,951 93,973 20.6% 70,802 85,776 21.1% 49 ,789 60,275 21.1% $64,300 $119,600 86.0% 
Burke County 31,575 37,427 18.5% 29,184 34,528 18.3% 21,84 2 25,597 17.2% $52,200 $85,900 64.6% 
Cherokee County 10,319 13,499 30.8% 7,966 10,336 29.8% 6,4 54 8,490 31.5% $53,100 $86,000 62.0% 
Clay County 4,158 5,425 30.5% 2,928 3,847 31.4% 2,472 3,255 31.7% $55,800 $99,800 78.9% 
Clev eland County 34,232 40,317 17.8% 32,037 37,046 15.6% 2 3,322 27,003 15.8% $52,900 $83,200 57.3% 
Graham County 4,132 5,084 23.0% 2,772 3,354 21.0% 2,266 2,7 75 22.5% $49,800 $76,100 52.8% 
Haywood County 23,975 28,640 19.5% 19,211 23,100 20.2% 14, 817 17,858 20.5% $59,100 $99,100 67.7% 
Henderson County 34,131 42,996 26.0% 28,709 37,414 30.3% 2 2,021 29,483 33.9% $78,600 $130,100 65.5% 
Jackson County 14,052 19,291 37.3% 9,683 13,191 36.2% 7,32 4 9,561 30.5% $63,700 $106,700 67.5% 
McDowell County 15,091 18,377 21.8% 13,680 16,604 21.4% 10 ,543 12,816 21.6% $44,800 $72,000 60.7% 
Macon County 17,174 20,746 20.8% 9,834 12,828 30.4% 8,139 1 0,433 28.2% $62,300 $103,700 66.5% 
Madison County 7,667 9,722 26.8% 6,488 8,000 23.3% 5,050 6, 123 21.2% $47,200 $94,600 100.4% 
Mitchell County 6,983 7,919 13.4% 5,779 6,551 13.4% 4,765 5 ,297 11.2% $48,100 $78,800 63.8% 
Polk County 7,273 9,192 26.4% 6,110 7,908 29.4% 4,883 6,218 27.3% $67,600 $112,000 65.7% 
Rutherford County 25,220 29,535 17.1% 22,198 25,191 13.5% 16,211 18,767 15.8% $45,700 $77,600 69.8% 
Swain County 5,664 7,105 25.4% 4,173 5,137 23.1% 3,185 3,94 9 24.0% $49,600 $86,800 75.0% 
Transylv ania County 12,893 15,553 20.6% 9,924 12,320 24.1 % 7,828 9,784 25.0% $72,600 $122,300 68.5% 
Watauga County 19,538 23,155 18.5% 13,693 16,540 20.8% 8,7 86 10,396 18.3% $72,200 $139,300 92.9% 
Yancey County 7,994 9,729 21.7% 6,124 7,472 22.0% 4,951 5,9 94 21.1% $49,800 $93,000 86.7% 
Western North Carolina 17,519 21,331 21.8% 319,557 388,679 21.6% 239,547 291,396 21.6% $53,100 $91,600 72.5% 
STATE OF N.C. 2,818,193 3,523,944 25.0% 2,517,026 3,132,013 24.4% 1,711,882 2,172,270 26.9% $65,300 $108,300 65.8% Housing units Occupied Housing Units Median Value of Owner- 
Occupied Housing Units Ow ner-Occupied Housing 
Units 
  Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 17 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 Table D-3. Economic Indicators – Population, 1990-2 008 
 
Geography 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct 
Change 
00-08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct 
Change 
00-08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 
Ashe County 22,209 24,384 25,482 9.8% 4.5% 14.7% 8,872 10,3 94 11,002 17.2% 5.8% 24.0% 
Buncombe County 174,821 206,330 225,992 18.0% 9.5% 29.3% 70,755 85,743 95,975 21.2% 11.9% 35.6% 
Burke County 75,744 89,148 88,936 17.7% -0.2% 17.4% 29,237 34,566 33,587 18.2% -2.8% 14.9% 
Cherokee County 20,170 24,298 26,365 20.5% 8.5% 30.7% 7,91 9 10,301 11,294 30.1% 9.6% 42.6% 
Clev eland County 84,714 96,287 98,276 13.7% 2.1% 16.0% 31, 980 37,047 37,221 15.8% 0.5% 16.4% 
Haywood County 46,942 54,033 56,363 15.1% 4.3% 20.1% 19,16 2 23,113 25,086 20.6% 8.5% 30.9% 
Henderson County 69,285 89,173 100,364 28.7% 12.5% 44.9% 2 8,767 37,467 43,054 30.2% 14.9% 49.7% 
Jackson County 26,846 33,121 36,427 23.4% 10.0% 35.7% 9,75 5 13,168 14,966 35.0% 13.7% 53.4% 
McDowell County 35,681 42,151 43,523 18.1% 3.3% 22.0% 13,7 19 16,586 17,309 20.9% 4.4% 26.2% 
Macon County 23,499 29,811 32,586 26.9% 9.3% 38.7% 9,843 12 ,855 15,027 30.6% 16.9% 52.7% 
Madison County 16,953 19,635 20,265 15.8% 3.2% 19.5% 6,513 7,996 8,074 22.8% 1.0% 24.0% 
Rutherford County 56,918 62,899 63,087 10.5% 0.3% 10.8% 22 ,157 25,174 26,445 13.6% 5.0% 19.4% 
Transylv ania County 25,520 29,334 29,933 14.9% 2.0% 17.3% 10,001 12,370 12,742 23.7% 3.0% 27.4% 
Watauga County 36,952 42,695 44,602 15.5% 4.5% 20.7% 13,65 4 16,552 18,549 21.2% 12.1% 35.9% 
Western NC (partial) 716,254 843,299 892,201 17.7% 5.8% 24.6% 282,334 343,332 37 0,331 21.6% 7.9% 31.2% 
STATE OF NC 6,628,637 8,049,313 9,036,449 21.4% 12.3% 36.3% 2,517,098 3,133,282 3,533,366 24.5% 12.8% 40.4% Total Population Total Households 
 
   Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 18 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 Table D-4. Economic Indicators – Income, 1990-2008  
Geography 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct 
Change 
00-08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct 
Change 00- 
08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 
Ashe County $18,951 $28,824 $35,339 52.1% 22.6% 86.5% $9,5 45 $16,429 $19,932 72.1% 21.3% 108.8% 
Buncombe County $25,847 $36,666 $44,576 41.9% 21.6% 72.5% $13,211 $20,384 $26,456 54.3% 29.8% 100.3% 
Burke County $25,879 $35,629 $36,761 37.7% 3.2% 42.0% $11, 604 $17,397 $19,054 49.9% 9.5% 64.2% 
Cherokee County $19,625 $27,992 $37,831 42.6% 35.1% 92.8% $9,258 $15,814 $21,513 70.8% 36.0% 132.4% 
Clev eland County $26,476 $35,283 $38,373 33.3% 8.8% 44.9% $11,875 $17,395 $18,911 46.5% 8.7% 59.3% 
Haywood County $22,462 $33,922 $38,944 51.0% 14.8% 73.4% $ 11,731 $18,554 $23,752 58.2% 28.0% 102.5% 
Henderson County $26,967 $38,109 $46,322 41.3% 21.6% 71.8 % $13,702 $21,110 $26,024 54.1% 23.3% 89.9% 
Jackson County $21,520 $32,552 $39,163 51.3% 20.3% 82.0% $10,326 $17,582 $20,599 70.3% 17.2% 99.5% 
McDowell County $22,562 $32,396 $35,114 43.6% 8.4% 55.6% $ 10,516 $16,109 $18,451 53.2% 14.5% 75.5% 
Macon County $20,450 $32,139 $40,164 57.2% 25.0% 96.4% $11 ,017 $18,642 $25,002 69.2% 34.1% 126.9% 
Madison County $18,956 $30,985 $39,518 63.5% 27.5% 108.5% $9,149 $16,076 $20,136 75.7% 25.3% 120.1% 
Rutherford County $23,828 $31,122 $36,022 30.6% 15.7% 51. 2% $11,287 $16,270 $19,864 44.1% 22.1% 76.0% 
Transylv ania County $25,179 $38,587 $38,537 53.3% -0.1% 5 3.1% $12,737 $20,767 $23,677 63.0% 14.0% 85.9% 
Watauga County $20,252 $32,611 $35,010 61.0% 7.4% 72.9% $1 0,628 $17,258 $21,610 62.4% 25.2% 103.3% 
Western NC (partial) $22,462 $32,552 $38,373 44.9% 17.9% 70.8% $11,017 $17,395 $20,599 57.9% 18.4% 87.0% 
ST AT E OF NC $26,647 $39,184 $46,107 47.0% 17.7% 73.0% $12, 885 $20,307 $25,015 57.6% 23.2% 94.1% Median Household Income Per capita income 
 
  Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 19 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 Table D-5. Economic Indicators – Public Assistance Income, 1990-2008 
 
Geography 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct Change 
00-08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 
Ashe County 831 229 146 -72.4% -36.2% -82.4% Buncombe County 4,102 2,404 1,253 -41.4% -47.9% -69.5% Burke County 1,613 867 563 -46.2% -35.1% -65.1% Cherokee County 682 313 116 -54.1% -62.9% -83.0% Clev eland County 2,502 1,218 772 -51.3% -36.6% -69.1% Haywood County 1,273 636 501 -50.0% -21.2% -60.6% Henderson County 1,352 763 586 -43.6% -23.2% -56.7% 
Jackson County 697 367 103 -47.3% -71.9% -85.2% 
McDowell County 782 424 246 -45.8% -42.0% -68.5% Macon County 671 257 105 -61.7% -59.1% -84.4% Madison County 704 272 122 -61.4% -55.1% -82.7% Rutherford County 1,338 925 484 -30.9% -47.7% -63.8% Transylv ania County 583 277 170 -52.5% -38.6% -70.8% Watauga County 558 197 145 -64.7% -26.4% -74.0% 
Western NC (partial) 17,688 9,149 5,312 -48.3% -41.9% -70.0% 
STATE OF NC 173,270 86,373 55,054 -50.2% -36.3% -68.2% Households with public assistance income 
 
  Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 20 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 Table D-6. Economic Indicators – Housing, 1990-2008  
 
Geography 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct 
Change 00- 
08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct 
Change 
00-08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 
Ashe County 11,119 13,268 15,251 19.3% 14.9% 37.2% 8,848 10 ,411 11,002 17.7% 5.7% 24.3% 
Buncombe County 77,951 93,973 107,207 20.6% 14.1% 37.5% 70 ,802 85,776 95,975 21.1% 11.9% 35.6% 
Burke County 31,575 37,427 39,224 18.5% 4.8% 24.2% 29,184 3 4,528 33,587 18.3% -2.7% 15.1% 
Cherokee County 10,319 13,499 16,213 30.8% 20.1% 57.1% 7,9 66 10,336 11,294 29.8% 9.3% 41.8% 
Clev eland County 34,232 40,317 42,863 17.8% 6.3% 25.2% 32, 037 37,046 37,221 15.6% 0.5% 16.2% 
Haywood County 23,975 28,640 31,824 19.5% 11.1% 32.7% 19,2 11 23,100 25,086 20.2% 8.6% 30.6% 
Henderson County 34,131 42,996 49,609 26.0% 15.4% 45.3% 28,709 37,414 43,054 30.3% 15.1% 50.0% 
Jackson County 14,052 19,291 23,607 37.3% 22.4% 68.0% 9,68 3 13,191 14,966 36.2% 13.5% 54.6% 
McDowell County 15,091 18,377 19,670 21.8% 7.0% 30.3% 13,6 80 16,604 17,309 21.4% 4.2% 26.5% 
Macon County 17,174 20,746 23,121 20.8% 11.4% 34.6% 9,834 1 2,828 15,027 30.4% 17.1% 52.8% 
Madison County 7,667 9,722 10,719 26.8% 10.3% 39.8% 6,488 8 ,000 8,074 23.3% 0.9% 24.4% 
Rutherford County 25,220 29,535 31,735 17.1% 7.4% 25.8% 22 ,198 25,191 26,445 13.5% 5.0% 19.1% 
Transylv ania County 12,893 15,553 17,237 20.6% 10.8% 33.7 % 9,924 12,320 12,742 24.1% 3.4% 28.4% 
Watauga County 19,538 23,155 27,064 18.5% 16.9% 38.5% 13,6 93 16,540 18,549 20.8% 12.1% 35.5% 
Western NC (partial) 334,937 406,499 455,344 21.4% 12.0% 35.9% 282,257 343,285 370,331 21.6% 7.9% 31.2% Total Housing Units Occupied Housing Units 
 
  Case Study:  Handmade in America  Page 21 
© SMS , Inc.  July, 2010 Table D-7. Economic Indicators – Housing (continued ), 1990-2008 
 
Geography 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct 
Change 
00-08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 1990 2000 2008 Pct 
Change 
90-00 Pct 
Change 
00-08 Pct 
Change 
90-08 
Ashe County 7,314 8,436 8,651 15.3% 2.5% 18.3% $57,200 $91, 600 $147,700 60.1% 61.2% 158.2% 
Buncombe County 49,789 60,275 65,039 21.1% 7.9% 30.6% $64, 300 $119,600 $185,600 86.0% 55.2% 188.6% 
Burke County 21,842 25,597 24,924 17.2% -2.6% 14.1% $52,20 0 $85,900 $104,200 64.6% 21.3% 99.6% 
Cherokee County 6,454 8,490 8,844 31.5% 4.2% 37.0% $53,100 $86,000 $140,800 62.0% 63.7% 165.2% 
Clev eland County 23,322 27,003 26,020 15.8% -3.6% 11.6% $5 2,900 $83,200 $100,300 57.3% 20.6% 89.6% 
Haywood County 14,817 17,858 18,214 20.5% 2.0% 22.9% $59,1 00 $99,100 $154,300 67.7% 55.7% 161.1% 
Henderson County 22,021 29,483 32,623 33.9% 10.7% 48.1% $7 8,600 $130,100 $183,000 65.5% 40.7% 132.8% 
Jackson County 7,324 9,561 9,780 30.5% 2.3% 33.5% $63,700 $ 106,700 $155,800 67.5% 46.0% 144.6% 
McDowell County 10,543 12,816 12,652 21.6% -1.3% 20.0% $44 ,800 $72,000 $100,700 60.7% 39.9% 124.8% 
Macon County 8,139 10,433 11,666 28.2% 11.8% 43.3% $62,300 $103,700 $164,100 66.5% 58.2% 163.4% 
Madison County 5,050 6,123 6,139 21.2% 0.3% 21.6% $47,200 $ 94,600 $158,400 100.4% 67.4% 235.6% 
Rutherford County 16,211 18,767 18,956 15.8% 1.0% 16.9% $4 5,700 $77,600 $100,300 69.8% 29.3% 119.5% 
Transylv ania County 7,828 9,784 9,868 25.0% 0.9% 26.1% $72 ,600 $122,300 $176,000 68.5% 43.9% 142.4% 
Watauga County 8,786 10,396 10,652 18.3% 2.5% 21.2% $72,20 0 $139,300 $208,600 92.9% 49.7% 188.9% 
Western NC (partial) 209,440 255,022 264,028 21.8% 3.5% 26.1% $53,100 $91,600 $154,300 72.5% 68.4% 190.6% 
ST AT E OF NC 1,711,882 2,172,270 2,407,681 26.9% 10.8% 40.6% $65,300 $108,300 $145,600 65.8% 34.4% 123.0% Owner-Occupied Housing Units Median Value of Owner-O ccupied Housing Units 
 
    Page 1  Appendix B – County General Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Maui County 
 
 
2. Kauai County 
 
 
3. Oahu County 
 
 
4. Hawaii County 
 
  Page 2  MAUI COUNTY 
Goals Objectives 
Greater retention of the Island residents by provid ing 
viable work, education, and lifestyle options. POPULATION 
POPULATION  Maui’s people, values, and lifestyles will thrive 
through strong, healthy, and vibrant island 
communities. Maximize residents’ benefits from the visitor indus try, as 
measured by the percentage of residents earning a l iving 
wage, and ease the transition of new residents into  the 
island. 
An island culture and lifestyle that is healthy and  vibrant 
as measured by the ability of residents to live her e, access 
and enjoy the natural environment, and practice loc al 
customs and traditions complying with. 
A planning and review process that incorporates the  best 
available cultural resources inventory and protecti on 
techniques and innovative preservation strategies. CULTURAL RESOURCES  Maui will be a community rich in cultural, historic al 
and archaeological resources that has preserved and  
perpetuated diverse cultural identities, traditions , and 
the island lifestyle in a manner that provides a 
connection to the past and respects and maintains 
Maui’s sense of place. 
Provide inventories, mechanisms, policies, and publ ic 
involvement opportunities to maintain significant h istoric, 
archaeological, and cultural resources. 
A more comprehensive and integrated Community-based  
management program. 
Improved reef health, coastal water quality, and fi sh 
stocks. 
Water quality that meets or exceeds State Clean Wat er 
Act standards. SHORELINE, REEFS, AND 
NEARSHORE WATER 
 Maui will have an intact and ecologically functiona l 
system of reef, shoreline, coastal resources, and n ear 
shore waters that are protected in perpetuity and i n 
compliance with Act 212. 
The acquisition of additional shoreline lands and 
shoreline access rights. 
Maui will protect all watersheds and streams in a m anner 
that guarantees a healthy, sustainable riparian 
environment. 
Decreased non-point source and point source polluti on 
To ensure there is no net loss of wetlands, preserv e 
current acreage of wetlands and improve and restore  
degraded wetlands  
Greater preservation of biodiversity through increa sed 
support and involvement in partnerships and program s to  
protect native species. 
Limited development in critical watershed areas WATERSHEDS, STREAMS, AND 
WETLANDS 
 Maui will protect all watersheds and streams in a 
manner that guarantees a healthy, sustainable ripar ian 
environment. 
Enhance the vitality and function of streams while 
balancing the multiple needs in our community 
A comprehensive management strategy that includes 
further identification, protection, and restoration  of 
wildlife habitats. 
A decrease in invasive species through programs and  
partnerships that eradicate undesirable species and  protect 
native habitat. 
Ensure the protection of important sensitive lands,  
indigenous habitat, and native flora and fauna. WILDLIFE AND NATURAL AREAS  Maui’s natural areas and indigenous flora and fauna  
will be protected. 
Increase the availability of educational opportunit ies, 
funding and support regarding environmental protect ion 
and resource conservation. 
A protected inventory of diverse scenic resources. HERITAGE RESOURCES 
SCENIC 
RESOURCES Maui will continue to be a beautiful island steeped  in 
coastal, mountain, open space, and historically 
significant views that are preserved to enrich the 
residents’ quality of life, attract visitors, provi de a 
connection to the past, and promote a sense of plac e.  Identify important scenic resources and reduce impa cts of 
development projects and public utility improvement s on 
important visual resources.  Page 3   
 connection to the past, and promote a sense of plac e. Protect, enhance, and acquire additional scenic vis tas, 
access points, and scenic lookout points. 
Increased integration and coordination between agen cies. 
Greater protection of life and property. 
A more coordinated emergency response system that 
includes clearly defined, mapped, evacuation route.  NATURAL 
HAZARD  
NATURAL 
HAZARD Maui will be prepared for natural disasters and be 
more disaster resilient. 
A more educated and involved public that is aware a nd 
prepared for natural hazards. 
Diversify the island’s economy 
Increase activities which support principles of 
sustainability. ECONOMIC 
DIVERSIFICATION  
Maui will have a balanced economy comprised of a 
variety of industries that offer employment 
opportunities, well-paying jobs, and a business 
environment that is sensitive to resident’s needs a nd 
the island’s unique natural and cultural resources.  Improve the island’s business climate. 
Increase the financial/economic contribution of the  visitor 
industry to the island and its residents. TOURISM Maui will have a healthy visitor industry that prov ides 
economic well-being, with stable, diverse 
employment opportunities for many of our island 
residents. Limit and manage future visitor unit expansion. 
Ensure that at least eighty-five percent of locally  
consumed fruits and vegetables and thirty percent o f all  
other locally consumed foods are grown on-island. 
Maintain or increase agriculture’s share of the tot al island 
economy. AGRICULTURE Maui will have a diversified agricultural industry  
contributing to greater economic, food, and energy 
security and prosperity. 
Expand diversified agriculture production at an ave rage 
annual rate of 4%. 
Increase efforts towards the development of emergin g 
industries. EMERGING 
INDUSTRIES 
 Foster the Growth of Emerging Economic Sectors. 
Increase renewable energy development and its use. SMALL BUSINESS 
DEVELOPMENT Small businesses will play a key role in Maui’s 
economy. Increase the number of and revenue generated by sma ll 
businesses and decrease the percentage of small bus iness 
failures. 
Expand the economic benefits of the health care sec tor. 
Increase efficiencies in the delivery of health car e services 
and minimize health care costs. 
Expand Maui’s alternative health care services incl uding 
spiritual practices. HEALTH CARE 
SECTOR Maui will have a health care industry and options t hat 
are reliable, efficient, and provide social well-be ing. 
Expand home and community based health care service s. 
Improve preschool and K-12 education to allow our y outh 
and adults to develop the skills needed to navigate  the 
21st century successfully. 
The number of certificate recipients and associate,  
bachelors and graduate degrees conferred will incre ase by 
30%. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE 
DEVELOPMENT Maui will have an effective education and workforce  
development programs and initiatives which are 
aligned with economic development goals. 
Ensure that at least 10% of Maui’s jobs are develop ed in 
S.T.E.M. (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mat h) 
related sectors by 2030. HOU 
SIN 
HOUS 
ING Maui will have safe, decent, appropriate, and 
affordable housing for all residents developed in a  
way that contributes to strong neighborhoods and a Better monitoring, evaluation, and refinement of cu rrent 
and future housing needs, particularly affordable h ousing, 
in conjunction with the economic cycle.  Page 4  Build housing that remains affordable* in perpetuity. 
(*affordable includes gap housing) 
More livable communities that provide for a mix of 
housing types, land uses, income levels, and age. 
Provide infrastructure in a more timely manner to 
support the development of affordable housing. 
A wider range of affordable housing options and 
programs to meet the needs of families/individuals 
including those with special needs. 
Reduce the cost to developers of providing housing that is 
affordable to families with household incomes 160% and 
below.  
 thriving island community. 
A more focused approach to the preservation, 
enhancement, and promotion of indigenous Hawaiian 
housing forms/architecture. 
More holistic approach to solid waste management 
planning and adequate funding to effectively meet f uture 
needs. SOLID WASTE Maui will minimize the volume of solid waste that 
enters the regional landfills. 
Divert at least 60% of solid waste from the Island’ s 
landfills. 
A wastewater planning program capable of efficientl y 
providing timely and adequate capacity to service 
projected demand. 
Adequate levels of wastewater service with minimal 
environmental impacts. WASTEWATER Maui will have wastewater systems that comply with 
or exceed State and Federal regulations; meet level s 
of service needs; provide adequate capacity to 
accommodate projected demand; ensure 
efficient/effective and environmentally sensitive 
operation; and maximize wastewater reuse where 
feasible. Greater reuse of wastewater for landscape planting,  
agriculture, and other non-potable uses. 
More holistic approach to water resources planning to 
effectively protect, recharge, and manage water res ources 
including watersheds, groundwater, streams, and aqu ifers. 
Meet the island’s water needs economically, reliabl y, and 
efficiently. WATER Maui will protect its water resources; and sustaina bly 
manage reliable sources of clean water for all uses  
and a system of water catchment, storage, 
transmission, and distribution that is managed in a n 
efficient, safe, and environmentally sound manner. 
Improve water quality through enhanced resource 
protection and properly maintained delivery systems . 
More integrated island-wide transportation and land  use 
planning program that reduces congestion and promot es a 
more efficient (transit-friendly) land use pattern.  
Safer and more efficient, interconnected roadway an d 
pedestrian networks that meet current and future ne eds. Maui will have an interconnected, efficient, and we ll 
maintained, multimodal transportation system for al l 
public and commercial users. 
An Island-wide multi-modal transportation system th at is 
designed to better respect and enhance the natural 
environment, scenic views, and community character.  
An integrated system of transit services, facilitie s, and 
infrastructure that better serves the mobility need s of 
Maui’s residents and visitors. TRANSPORTATION Maui will have an Island-wide transit system that 
addresses the mobility needs of residents/visitors and 
contributes t the development of more sustainable a nd 
livable communities. More diversified and stable funding base to support  
transportation goals. 
More effective, long range planning of parks and 
recreation program able to meet community needs in a 
timely manner. 
Achieve parks/recreation level-of-service standards  that 
meets the diverse needs of residents and visitors. INFRASTRUCTURE 
 
PARKS Maui will have a diverse range of active/passive 
recreation parks, wilderness areas, and other natur al 
resource areas linked (where feasible) by a network  of 
greenways, bikeways, pathways, and roads. 
Expanded opportunities for residents and visitors t o 
access and enjoy an interconnected network of 
greenways, trails/pathways, bikeways, and 
pedestrianoriented streets linking existing and fut ure park 
sites with  the ocean, natural areas, open space re sources, 
and to residential communities and visitor 
accommodations.  Page 5  PUBLIC FACILITIES Maui will have high quality public facilities that meet 
the diverse needs of residents. More effective, long range planning of public facil ities 
program able to meet community needs in a timely 
manner. 
Provide appropriate school facilities in a timely m anner 
and in strategic locations. SCHOOLS Maui will have school facilities that meet resident s’ 
needs and goals. 
More expansive network of safe and convenient 
pedestrian-friendly streets, trails, pathways, and bikeways 
between neighborhoods and schools. 
Greater accessibility to quality health care facili ties and 
services. 
Improved and additional facilities and medical 
technologies. 
More modern and expanded long-term care facilities.  
More support to the Home-care and Community-based 
programs to become an alternative to traditional nu rsing 
homes. HEALTH CARE Maui residents will have the best possible health c are 
to include healthy living, disease prevention, as w ell 
as acute and long term care. 
More focused and better delivery of prevention and 
primary health care services. 
Reduce fossil fuel consumption: using the 2005 
consumption as a baseline, reduce by 15% in 2015; 2 0% 
by 2020; and 30% by 2030. 
By 2015, more than 30% of Maui’s electricity will b e 
produced from renewable energy sources, 50% by 2025 , 
and 70% by 2030; and Firmer, cleaner, and more effi cient 
power through increased use of renewable energy sou rces 
and more efficient fossil fuel technologies.  
ENERGY Maui residents, businesses, organizations, and 
government will use best practices in 
conservation/energy efficiency to minimize fossil 
fuels consumption. 
Increased investment in existing and emerging renew able 
energy technologies in line with the MIP goals. 
Significantly reduce the loss of prime and producti ve 
agricultural lands. AGRICULTURAL 
LAND USES Maui Island shall have  
(1) a prosperous agricultural industry; 
(2)  protection of agricultural lands; and  
(3) viable agricultural activities. Foster a cooperative and supportive role in the red uction 
of the island’s dependence on off-island agricultur al 
products, loss of agricultural production/income st reams 
from off-shore markets. 
Reduce the proliferation and impact of residential 
development outside of urban and rural growth 
boundaries. Maui will have a rural landscape and lifestyle wher e 
natural systems, cultural resources and agricultura l 
lands are protected and development enhances and 
compliments the viability and character of rural 
communities. A more appropriate services/ infrastructure standar d to 
enhance and protect the rural character and natural  
systems. 
Facilitate and support a compact, efficient, human- scale 
urban development pattern. 
Facilitate more self-sufficient and sustainable 
communities. 
Strengthen the island’s sense of place and unique 
character. 
Seek to minimize and contain the impact of tourism on 
residents. LAND USES 
RURAL LAND USES Maui will have livable human scale urban 
communities, an efficient and sustainable land use 
pattern, and sufficient housing and services for Ma ui 
residents. 
Ensure that Maui’s Planning Process becomes more 
transparent, efficient and innovative. 
 
  Page 6  KAUAI COUNTY 
Goals Objectives 
Preserve public views that exhibit a high degree of  intactness 
or vividness. 
Preserve the scenic qualities of mountains, hills a nd other 
elevated landforms, qualities such as the silhouett e against 
the horizon and the mass and shape of the landform.  SCENIC VIEWS  In developing public facilities and in 
administering land use regulations, the 
County shall seek to preserve scenic 
resources and public views. Public 
views are those from a public place, 
such as a park, highway, or along the 
shoreline. Preserve the scenic qualities of lowland/open space  features, 
such as the shoreline, the edge of a coastal bluff,  a marsh, a 
fishpond, or a historic or cultural property. Struc tures should 
not impede or intrude upon public views of the feat ure and 
should not alter the character of the immediate are a around 
the land feature, historic or cultural property. 
Maintain and periodically update the County of Kaua i 
Historic Resources Inventory. 
Modify County zoning and building regulations to pr ovide 
incentives for rehabilitating historic structures t hat are on the 
National Register or Hawaii Register or that are cl assified as 
“contributing element” of a County Historic/Cultura l Special 
Treatment District (ST-C), the Lïhue Town Core Spec ial 
Area, or Kapaÿa Special Planning Area 
Provide a real property tax exemption for historic properties, 
including commercial properties 
Where necessary to preserve historic town architect ure, 
establish an historic district as an overlay to zon ing. Reduce 
the burden on property owners by providing clear de sign 
guidelines and streamlined permit procedures 
Establish a low-interest revolving loan fund for re habilitation 
of historic properties 
In order to prevent destruction of archaeological s ites, 
prepare a set of predictive maps identifying areas that have 
potential archaeological resources or burials. Info rm 
government agencies and permit applicants engaged i n land 
development projects about potential resources, as well as 
about requirements for survey and discovery. 
Educate planners, attorneys, and other individuals involved 
in land development and sales about laws concerning  land 
titles, kuleana properties, water rights, access ri ghts, and 
other rights in land and water that are unique to H awaii HISTORIC AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES  
Preserve important archaeological and 
historic sites. 
Educate construction companies and workers about 
regulations concerning discovery and reporting of 
archaeological resources or burials 
Reduce average annual post-development sediment in runoff 
(total suspended solids), so that it is no greater than pre-
development levels. 
Maintain post-development peak runoff rate and aver age 
volume at levels similar to pre-development 
Work with other government agencies and community 
organizations to seek ways of reducing all types of  nonpoint 
source water pollutants 
Protect areas that provide important water quality benefits – 
i.e., wetlands 
Protect areas that are particularly susceptible to erosion and 
sediment loss – i.e., stream banks 
Promote the use of permeable surfaces for driveways  and 
parking and limit increases of impervious areas Caring for Land, Water and Culture  
WATERSHEDS, STREAMS AND 
WATER QUALITY  To develop County roads and drainage 
facilities and in administering the 
grading, flood control, and drainage 
regulations, 
Limit land disturbance activities such as clearing and 
grading, and cut and fill to reduce erosion and sed iment loss  Page 7  Avoid disturbance of natural drainage features and 
vegetation 
Reduce erosion and, to the extent practicable, reta in sediment 
onsite during and after construction 
Prior to land disturbance, prepare and implement an  
approved erosion and sediment control plan or simil ar 
administrative document that contains erosion and s ediment 
control provisions 
Manage land use and earth-moving activities from th e 
standpoint of the entire watershed, considering imp ortant 
characteristics such as scenic landscape features, historic 
sites, native species of plants and animals, and ot her special 
resources   
Specify relevant best management practices as a con dition of 
approving land use permits that affect stream corri dors 
Develop a land-banking program for acquiring shorel ine 
lands and access. 
Adopt tax policies favorable to public shoreline ac cess. 
When developing public facilities or granting zonin g, land 
use permits, or subdivision for development along t he coast, 
the first priority shall be to preserve and protect  sandy 
beaches. 
For coastal areas suffering erosion, promote and pr ovide for 
beach re-nourishment in conjunction with property o wners 
and the State Department of Land and Natural Resour ces. 
Discourage the construction of shoreline protection  structures 
(seawalls, revetments). COASTAL LANDS  
 Actively acquire shoreline lands and 
access-ways to shoreline areas for 
public use. 
Following are general guidelines for coastal develo pment, 
including resorts and residential subdivisions, but  excepting 
harbors and other uses which are specifically depen dent on 
locating near the water:  
NATIVE 
HAWAIIAN There is a statewide movement to 
restore Native Hawaiian rights and 
lands; to obtain reparations for past and 
ongoing use of trust lands; and to attain 
a sovereign Native Hawaiian 
government.  It is important to set forth Native Hawaiian rights  and to 
define the role of the County government vis-à-vis the State 
and Federal governments. 
Plan for a limited number of visitor accommodations  on the 
West Side, to be provided in residential- and inn-s tyle 
buildings. The intent is that, over the long term, the West 
Side should have about five to ten percent of the i sland’s 
total visitor units. 
The County of Kauai shall recognize alternative vis itor 
accommodations, such as B&Bs, vacation rentals, inn s, 
cabins, and retreat centers. 
The County shall enact clear standards and permit p rocesses 
for regulating alternative visitor accommodation st ructures 
and operations in Residential, Agriculture, Open, a nd Resort 
zoning districts 
Permitting processes should consider the cumulative  impact 
that a large concentration of alternative visitor u nits can have 
on a residential neighborhood. Developing Jobs and Businesses  
VISITOR INDUSTRY  The visitor industry is the most 
significant economic force on Kauai, as 
it is in the state as a whole. Encourage 
and support resort development on 
lands planned and zoned for resort use, 
primarily at Princeville, Kappa-Wailua, 
and Poÿipü. 
Encourage the development of public-private partner ships 
involving the County and the Department of Land and  
Natural Resources in order to manage and improve Ka uai’s 
valuable parks and natural areas.  Page 8  Simplify zoning and permitting procedures for the o peration 
of outdoor recreational activities on private lands . Clarify the 
definition of outdoor recreation, to include but no t be limited 
to bicycle and horseback riding, hiking, off-road s ightseeing, 
fishing, tent-camping, and other such uses, which a re 
dependent on open lands. Such uses shall not displa ce 
agricultural use and shall not involve unrelated re tail or 
services. 
Manage beach parks, resource parks, rivers, beaches  and 
other natural 
To enhance the visitor’s experience of Kauai and to  provide 
meaningful jobs and income to Kauai residents 
Improve facilities, maintenance, and management of 
activities at State and County parks 
Expand and improve State small boat harbor faciliti es in 
order to accommodate local fishermen, recreational boating, 
and commercial boat tours and charters   
State and County agencies should work together to p rovide 
efficient and effective management, licensing and r egulation 
of commercial recreation activities within public l ands and 
waters 
The County shall provide property tax incentives to  support 
agricultural enterprise and activities and conserva tion of 
agricultural land. 
Through tax incentives and land use regulations, th e County 
shall encourage landowners to make land available t o small 
farmers. 
The County and the State shall take measures to mai ntain 
viable irrigation systems and to support the supply  of 
irrigation water to farmers at reasonable prices. M easures 
should include tax relief and other incentives. 
The County shall promote and support the marketing of 
Kauai agriculture and food products within Kauai an d to out-
of-state markets. 
Recognizing the need to furnish and coordinate a wi de 
variety of direct assistance programs and appropria te land 
use, water use, environmental and tax policies, the  County 
shall actively collaborate with federal, state, and  private farm 
organizations to expand and diversify agricultural enterprise 
on Kauai. AGRICULTURE  
preserving important agricultural lands 
as an essential resource base. It also 
calls for conserving irrigation systems 
for existing and potential future 
agricultural use. 
State and federal agencies should expand direct fin ancial and 
tax assistance to agricultural enterprise as well a s increase 
funding for programs that support agricultural deve lopment 
and marketing programs on Kauai. 
Support high technology businesses by zoning approp riately 
located lands for high technology uses and by provi ding 
County infrastructure. 
Build upon Kauai’s existing resources in high techn ology, 
such as the Pacific Missile Range Facility and the fiber optic 
cable service that stretches from Mänä to Wainiha, 
connecting Kauai with Oahu, the U.S. mainland, and,  via 
routing, to practically every industrial center in the world.  
HIGH TECHNOLOGY  Encourage the development of the high 
technology business sector on Kauai, in 
order to diversify the economy and 
provide higher-paying jobs. 
In education, increase exposure to high technology subjects 
and equip students with basic skills in information  
technology  Page 9    Identify and target niche markets in technology, su ch as 
those related to diversified agriculture, aquacultu re, and the 
film industry. 
Eliminate unnecessary land use and other regulation s, clarify 
regulatory requirements, and reduce the time for pr ocessing 
permit applications wherever possible. 
Support small business by providing needed infrastr ucture to 
towns and urban centers. 
Develop and support business and technical assistan ce 
programs. 
Strengthen the public education system in order to equip 
Kauai’s children, teens, college students, and adul ts with the 
knowledge and skills needed to obtain a wellpaying job or 
start a business. SUPPORTING BUSINESSES AND 
JOBS FOR KAUAI RESIDENTS  
Support and encourage the 
development of a wide range of small 
businesses, including home-based 
businesses. 
Work with employers to provide career opportunities  and 
training for local youth. Seek commitments from new  or 
expanding businesses that they will actively recrui t and train 
Kauai residents for new jobs. 
Develop vacant lands with existing commercial and 
industrial zoning, to the extent feasible, before a pproving 
new commercial and industrial zoning.  
LAND SUPPLY FOR COMMERCIAL & 
INDUSTRIAL USES  
The County supports commercial and 
industrial development on 
appropriately zoned lands by providing 
the necessary infrastructure and 
services The County shall strive for a balance between meeti ng 
community shopping needs with new commercial 
development and supporting local small businesses i n older 
business areas. 
The primary intent of the Agriculture designation i s to 
conserve land and water resources 
In administering zoning and subdivision regulations , the 
County shall seek to preserve important agricultura l lands.  
Lands designated Agriculture shall include: importa nt 
agricultural lands; lands in active agricultural us e; lands with 
potential for agriculture, silviculture or aquacult ure; and 
other lands not suited for urban development becaus e of 
location, topography, economy of public services, o r other 
purpose related to general health, safety and welfa re. 
To provide an opportunity for Kauai citizens to res ide in an 
agricultural community. An “agricultural community”  is an 
area that has both agricultural uses and residences . Typically, 
an agricultural community is established through su bdivision 
of land and provision of roads and potable water se rvice. 
Agricultural communities are generally located in o utlying 
areas, do not have convenient access to County faci lities, and 
may not receive the full range or highest level of County 
services such as are available to residential commu nities, 
towns, and urban centers. PRESERVING KAUAI’S RURAL CHARACTER 
AGRICULTURAL LANDS  Lands included within the Agriculture 
designation shall be predominantly 
used for or held in reserve to be used in 
the future for agricultural activities. 
These activities include the breeding, 
planting, nourishing and caring for, 
gathering, and processing of any animal 
or plant organism, including aquatic 
animals and plants, for the purpose of 
producing food or material for non-
food products; the commercial growing 
of flowers or other ornamental plants; 
the commercial growing of forest 
products; and the commercial breeding 
and caring for domestic animals and 
pets. 
To implement the Agriculture designation, specific controls 
on the subdivision and alteration of designated lan ds shall be 
formulated to prevent the dissipation of agricultur al potential, 
the loss of rural character, and the dispersal of r esidential and 
other urban uses.  Page 10  Maintain irrigation works and easements where feasi ble and 
beneficial to existing or potential agricultural us es within    
Preserve wetlands and streams and provide a riparia n buffer 
area to prevent land disturbance and to filter runo ff. 
Lands designated Open shall include: important land forms 
such as mountains, coastal bluffs, cinder cones, an d stream 
valleys; native plant and wildlife habitat; areas o f 
predominantly steep slopes (20 percent or greater);  beaches 
and coastal areas susceptible to coastal erosion or  hurricane, 
tsunami, or storm-wave inundation; wetlands and flo od 
plains; important scenic resources; and known natur al, 
historic and archaeological resources. Open shall a lso include 
parks, golf courses, and other areas committed to o utdoor 
recreation. Open Lands  The intent of the Open designation is to 
preserve, maintain or improve the 
natural characteristics of non-urban 
land and water areas that: 
(1) are of significant value to the 
public as scenic or recreation 
resources; 
(2) perform essential physical and 
ecologic functions important 
to the welfare of surrounding 
lands, waters, and biological 
resources 
(3)  have the potential to create or 
exacerbate soil erosion or 
flooding on adjacent lands; 
(4) are potentially susceptible to 
natural hazards such as flood, 
hurricane, tsunami, coastal 
erosion, landslide or 
subsidence; or 
(5) form a cultural, historic or 
archaeological resource of 
significant public value. Lands designated Open shall remain predominantly fr ee of 
development involving buildings, paving and other 
construction. With the exception of kuleanas and ot her small 
lots of record, any construction that is permitted shall be 
clearly incidental to the use and open character of  the 
surrounding lands. 
Scenic Roadway Corridors are primarily designated i n areas 
between towns where the surrounding lands are prima rily 
designated Agriculture and Open. Where a Scenic Roa dway 
Corridor is designated within a town or adjoins an area 
planned for urban use, the primary intent is to pro mote 
setbacks, landscaping, and views of scenic features . Scenic 
Roadway Corridors are intended to provide design gu idance 
but not to restrict the principal land uses of urba n areas. 
In planning, designing and constructing highway and  road 
improvements, transportation agencies shall balance  
conservation of the area’s natural, historic and sc enic 
qualities with transportation objectives. In some c ases, it will 
be preferable to accept a lesser design speed or ca pacity in 
order to maintain the rural character and appearanc e of the 
Garden Island. 
Maintain the small scale of Kauai’s roadways by lim iting 
roadway width. 
Maintain the one-lane bridges and historic road dim ensions 
in the Hanalei-to-Häÿena Scenic Roadway Corridor. R estore 
the Hanalei Bridge as an important historic feature  and the 
gateway to the district. 
Maintain the unique features of historic bridges, s triking a 
balance between safety needs and preserving histori c and 
scenic character. 
Design new bridges and bridge improvements to affor d 
scenic views.  
SCENIC ROADWAY CORRIDORS  The purpose of designating Scenic 
Roadway Corridors is to conserve open 
space, scenic features, and views within 
and along Kauai’s most heavily-
traveled routes. The policy of 
conservation recognizes the vital 
function of these roadways in meeting 
the public need for transportation. It 
also recognizes the legitimate desire of 
private landowners to make economic 
use of their lands. The intent of this 
policy is to establish basic principles 
for roadway design and land use within 
these scenic corridors and to provide a 
basis for County action to establish 
programs and regulations to implement 
them. 
Develop and maintain green highways and roads, prov iding 
trees and vegetation in rights-of-way as appropriat e to the 
character of the area. For divided highways, provid e a 
landscaped median.  Page 11  Define Scenic Roadway Corridors and manage the 
development of lands within the corridors to conser ve open 
space and scenic qualities. Scenic Roadway Corridor s shall 
generally include but shall not be limited to those  shown on 
the General Plan Heritage Resources Map.  
  
Based on an assessment of views from the road and t he 
scenic qualities of lands along Scenic Roadway Corr idors, 
develop appropriate programs and/or land use regula tions to 
conserve those qualities. 
Consider transportation alternatives to increasing the size and 
capacity of roadways. Alternatives include increase d 
utilization of public transit. 
Planning for the Kapaÿa By-Pass should incorporate 
connector roads between the By-Pass and the coastal  
highway and between the By-Pass and roads serving t he 
valley. 
The State and the County should jointly undertake a  study of 
the existing roadway network and the future transpo rtation 
needs within the Kappa-Wailua homesteads area. REGIONAL HIGHWAYS AND 
ROADS  Use General Plan policies concerning 
rural character, preservation of historic 
and scenic resources, and scenic 
roadway corridors as part of the criteria 
for long-range highway planning and 
design. The goal of efficient movement 
of through traffic should be weighed 
against community goals and policies 
relating to community character, 
livability, and natural beauty. Reserve corridors for future roadways as shown on t he 
General Plan Land Use Map. The corridors are concep tual 
only and are subject to environmental assessment an d 
evaluation of alternative alignments. BUS 
TRANSIT  
Continue to operate The Kauai Bus; 
seek to increase ridership and expand 
service, subject to the availability of 
funds. Improve bus stops to increase safety and convenienc e of 
service. BIKEWAYS  
Support funding to develop Kauai’s bikeway system t o provide for alternative means of transportation, 
recreation, and visitor activities (economic develo pment). 
Coordinate planning of future water system developm ent and 
rate structures with General Plan policies and guid elines. WATER SUPPLY  
Develop a long-range plan to guide 
expansion, improvement, and 
rehabilitation of County water systems. Support compact development by giving priority to w ater 
supply improvements for existing and planned Urban Center, 
Residential Community, and Resort areas, while also  
supporting development in already-established Agric ultural 
Communities. 
Wastewater effluent shall be reused for irrigation wherever 
economically feasible, in order to avoid costly and  disposal 
facilities and to conserve potable water supplies. 
The County shall seek to develop additional means o f 
wastewater diversion and reuse, such as a graywater  
program. WASTEWATER 
TREATMENT  The County and private developers 
should coordinate planning, 
development, and operation and 
management of wastewater systems in 
accordance with long-range facility 
plans. The County shall develop a policy plan to guide fut ure 
decisions regarding the allocation of unused treatm ent plant 
capacity, the expansion of municipal wastewater sys tems, 
and improvement priorities. 
Establish zoning and subdivision regulations that 
(1) strictly limit development on lands that are st eeply-
sloped and/or have highly erodible soils, in order to 
prevent flooding, landslides and nonpoint pollution ; and 
(2) strictly limit development on shoreline lands w ithin 
coastal flood hazard areas or susceptible to shorel ine 
erosion. Building Public Facilities and Services  
 
DRAINAGE AND 
FLOOD CONTROL  
Establish an ongoing program to clear 
streams and drainage ways and 
maintain their capacity to accommodate 
stormwater flows. 
Establish erosion control and drainage regulations that 
incorporate best management practices for controlli ng 
nonpoint source pollution.  Page 12  Require detention basins in new developments, in or der to 
maintain predevelopment stormwater flow rates. 
Requirements shall be based on the two-year storm b ut may 
be increased. 
To conserve land, develop detention basins in conju nction 
with park or open lands and design for multiple use s. 
Protect buildings from the 100-year flood.   
Where there are no downstream drainage systems or i f the 
downstream systems lacks sufficient capacity, requi re 
retention facilities sufficient to maintain 100-yea r storm 
flows at pre-development rates and conditions. 
Actively promote solar water-heating and other ener gy-
saving devices such as roof insulation and natural ventilation 
and cooling of buildings. 
Develop low-cost financing programs to enable house holds 
and small businesses to invest in solar water-heati ng and 
other energy-saving technologies. 
Minimize health, safety, cultural and scenic impact s of 
electrical power installations.  
Require new buildings to incorporate economically-f easible 
design and equipment to save energy. ENERGY  Promote renewable energy sources to 
reduce Kauai’s dependence on 
imported fossil fuels, taking into 
consideration cost, reliability, and 
environmental impacts. 
Establish a set of measurable goals to evaluate ene rgy 
conservation and self-sufficiency. 
Through a multi-faceted program of education, manag ement 
measures, and financial incentives, the County shal l support 
and stimulate Kauai businesses and residents to red uce their 
solid waste generation and increase the reuse and r ecycling 
of materials. SOLID WASTE  Using long-range integrated resource 
planning, the County shall manage an 
islandwide system of solid waste 
collection, reuse, recycling and disposal 
that 
(1) is environmentally sound and 
cost-effective;  
(2) increases diversion of waste from 
the island’s landfill(s); and 
(3) provides for the timely and orderly 
expansion of solid waste facilities. The County shall incorporate entrepreneurial princi ples in 
managing solid waste, involve private businesses, a nd 
support market-oriented innovations and initiatives . Among 
other options, the County shall consider opportunit ies for 
utilizing the waste stream for energy generation. 
To improve fire protection, develop additional faci lities 
according to a long-range system plan.  
POLICE AND 
FIRE SAFETY  
Provide adequate staffing and facilities 
to ensure effective and efficient 
delivery of basic police and fire 
protection. Evaluate fire protection service island wide, with particular 
attention to the east side, from Wailua to Anahola.  
Increase opportunities for moderate- and low-income  
households to become homeowners. The intent is to m ove 
families out of expensive rental subsidy programs i nto 
homeownership, developing housing at a very low cos t 
through self-help programs and reduced-rate mortgag e 
financing. 
Acquire and bank land and infrastructure improvemen ts for 
future housing development. 
Support the development of housing and support serv ices for 
elderly and special needs groups, including persons  with 
disabilities, the homeless, and other at-risk popul ations 
needing shelter and rehabilitation programs. 
Reserve the program income from the HOME and CDBG 
disaster grants to fund housing and community devel opment 
projects. Use the Housing and Community Development  
Revolving Fund to finance projects and maintain cap ital. Improving Housing, Parks and Schools  
HOUSING  Increase the supply of affordable rental 
housing, as indicated by market 
conditions. 
Continue to prepare and adopt a five-year Consolida ted Plan 
and one-year Action Plans, with community participa tion.  Page 13  Continue to partner with for-profit and nonprofit 
organizations in order to provide the highest level  of housing 
and community development assistance possible. 
Develop a flexible planning process for housing pro grams 
that monitors current real estate and socio-economi c 
conditions and allows the County to make timely cha nges in 
strategy and resource allocation.   
Develop an Affordable Housing Program to standardiz e the 
application and administration of affordable housin g 
requirements within the County of Kauai. 
Provide for the safe and secure use of public parks  and 
recreation facilities. 
Give high priority to improving maintenance of grou nds and 
comfort stations. 
Give high priority to acquiring and developing addi tional 
beach parks and community or neighborhood parks in 
communities that are under-served or experiencing g rowth. 
Consider community concerns in all planning efforts . PARKS AND RECREATION  
Develop and maintain Kauai’s parks to 
meet the needs of the island’s various 
communities and of both residents and 
visitors and provide convenient access 
to all of Kauai’s beaches and inland 
recreation areas. Provide for flexibility in administering the park d edication 
requirements, so that developer land dedication or fee 
payments result in a usable park complete with faci lities. 
Create new parks through County-developer partnersh ips. 
Approve new residential developments only after the  State 
DOE certifies that adequate school facilities, eith er at 
existing schools or at new school sites, will be av ailable 
when the development is completed. 
Have developers pay their fair share of all costs n eeded to 
ensure provision of adequate school facilities for the children 
living in their developments.  
EDUCATION  
Strive for a strong education system 
which provides Kauai’s children, teens, 
college students, and adults with the 
knowledge and skills needed to obtain a 
well-paying job on Kauai. Consider schools as community resources for learnin g about 
specialized environmental, cultural, and historic s ubjects 
related to Kauai and each of its communities. Schoo ls should 
also assume important community functions such as 
recreational centers, meeting facilities, and emerg ency 
shelters. 
  Page 14  OAHU COUNTY 
Goals Objectives 
Participate in State and Federal programs which see k to develop social, economic, legal, 
and environmental controls over population growth. 
Seek a balance between the rate of in-migration and  the rate of out-migration by reducing 
in-migration. 
Support Federal policies providing for a more even distribution of immigrants throughout 
the country. 
Seek to maintain a desirable pace of physical devel opment through City and County 
regulations. 
Encourage family planning. To control the growth of 
Oahu's resident and visitor 
populations in order to 
avoid social, economic, and 
environmental disruptions 
Publicize the desire of the City and County to limi t population growth. 
Allocate efficiently the money and resources of the  City and County in order to meet the 
needs of Oahu's anticipated future population. To plan for future 
population growth. Provide adequate support facilities to accommodate future growth in the number of 
visitors to Oahu. 
Facilitate the full development of the primary urba n center. 
Encourage development within the secondary urban ce nter at Kapolei and the Ewa and 
Central Oahu urban-fringe areas to relieve developm ental pressures in the remaining 
urban-fringe and rural areas and to meet housing ne eds not readily provided in the 
primary urban center. POPULATION 
To establish a pattern of 
population distribution that 
will allow the people of 
Oahu to live and work in 
harmony. Manage physical growth and development in the urban -fringe and rural areas so that: 
a. An undesirable spreading of development is preve nted 
b. Their population densities are consistent with t he character of development and 
environmental qualities desired for such areas. 
Encourage the growth and diversification of Oahu's economic base. 
Encourage the development of small businesses and l arger industries which will 
contribute to the economic and social well-being of  Oahu residents. 
Encourage the development in appropriate locations on Oahu of trade, communications, 
and other industries of a nonpolluting nature. 
Encourage the development of local, national, and w orld markets for the products of 
Oahu-based industries. 
Encourage the wider distribution of available emplo yment opportunities through such 
methods as shortening the work week and reducing th e use of overtime. To promote employment 
opportunities that will 
enable all the people of 
Oahu to attain a decent 
standard of living. 
Encourage the continuation of a significant level o f Federal employment on Oahu 
Manage the development of secondary resort areas in  a manner which respects existing 
lifestyles and the natural environment, and avoids substantial increases in the cost of 
providing public services in the area. 
Preserve the well-known and widely publicized beaut y of Oahu for visitors as well as 
residents. To maintain the viability of 
Oahu's visitor industry. 
Encourage the visitor industry to provide a high le vel of service to visitors. 
Assist the agricultural industry to ensure the cont inuation of agriculture as an important 
source of income and employment. 
Support agricultural diversification in all agricul tural areas on Oahu. 
Support the development of markets for local produc ts, particularly those with the 
potential for economic growth. 
Provide sufficient agricultural land in Ewa, Centra l Oahu, and the North Shore to 
encourage the continuation of sugar and pineapple a s viable industries. 
Maintain agricultural land along the Windward, Nort h Shore, and Waianae coasts for 
truck fanning, flower growing, aquaculture, livesto ck production, and other types of 
diversified agriculture. 
Encourage the more intensive use of productive agri cultural land. 
Encourage the use of more efficient production prac tices by agriculture, including the 
efficient use of water. To maintain the viability of 
agriculture on Oahu. 
Encourage the more efficient use of non-potable wat er for agricultural use. ECONOMIC ACTIVITY 
 
To make full use of the Assist the fishing industry to maintain its viabili ty  Page 15  Encourage the development of aquaculture, ocean res earch, and other ocean- related 
industries. economic resources of the 
sea. 
Focus the development of ocean related economic act ivities in the Northwestern 
Hawaiian Islands on those which are compatible with  preserving the area's unique 
environmental, marine, and wildlife assets. 
Encourage the training and employment of present re sidents for currently available and 
future jobs. 
Make full use of State and Federal employment and t raining programs. To prevent the occurrence 
of large scale 
unemployment. Encourage the provision of retraining programs for workers in industries with planned 
reductions in their labor force. 
Take full advantage of Federal programs and grants which will contribute to the economic 
and social well-being of Oahu's residents. 
Encourage the Federal government to pay for the cos t of public services used by Federal 
agencies. 
Encourage the Federal government to lease new facil ities rather than construct them on 
tax-exempt public land. To increase the amount of 
Federal spending on Oahu. 
Encourage the military to purchase locally all need ed services and supplies which are 
available on Oahu. 
Maintain sufficient land in appropriately located c ommercial and industrial areas to help 
ensure a favorable business climate on Oahu.  
To bring about orderly 
economic growth on Oahu. Encourage the continuation of a high level of milit ary-related employment in the Hickam-
Pearl Harbor, Wahiawa, Kailua-Kaneohe, and Ewa area s. 
Protect Oahu's natural environment, especially the shoreline, valleys, and ridges, from 
incompatible development. 
Seek the restoration of environmentally damaged are as and natural resources. 
Retain the Island's streams as scenic, aquatic, and  recreation resources. 
Require development projects to give due considerat ion to natural features such as slope, 
flood and erosion hazards, water-recharge areas, di stinctive land forms, and existing 
vegetation. 
Require sufficient setbacks of improvements in unst able shoreline areas to avoid the 
future need for protective structures. 
Design surface drainage and flood-control systems i n a manner which will help preserve 
their natural settings. 
Protect the natural environment from damaging level s of air, water, and noise pollution. 
Protect plants, birds, and other animals that are u nique to the State of Hawaii and the 
Island of Oahu. 
Protect mature trees on public and private lands an d encourage their integration into new  
developments. 
Increase public awareness and appreciation of Oahu' s land, air, and water resources. To protect and preserve the 
natural environment. 
Encourage the State and Federal governments to prot ect the unique environmental, 
marine, and wildlife assets of the Northwestern Haw aiian Islands. 
Protect the Island's well-known resources: its moun tains and craters; forests and 
watershed areas; marshes, rivers, and streams; shor eline, fishponds, and bays; and reefs 
and offshore islands. 
Protect Oahu's scenic views, especially those seen from highly developed and heavily 
traveled areas. 
Locate roads, highways, and other public facilities  and utilities in areas where they will 
least obstruct important views of the mountains and  the sea. NATURAL ENVIRONMENT 
To preserve and enhance the 
natural monuments and 
scenic views of Oahu for the 
benefit of both residents and 
visitors. 
Provide opportunities for recreational and educatio nal use and physical contact with 
Oahu's natural environmental. 
Develop programs and controls which will provide de cent homes at the least possible 
cost. 
Streamline approval and permit procedures for housi ng and other development projects. 
Encourage innovative residential development which will result in lower costs, added 
convenience and privacy, and the more efficient use  of streets and utilities. 
Establish public, and encourage private, programs t o maintain and improve the condition 
of existing housing. HOUSING To provide decent housing 
for all the people of Oahu at 
prices they can afford. 
Make full use of State and Federal programs that pr ovide financial assistance for low- and 
moderate-income homebuyers.  Page 16  Expand local funding mechanisms available to pay fo r government housing programs. 
Provide financial and other incentives to encourage  the private sector to build homes for 
low and moderate-income residents. 
Encourage and participate in joint public- private development of low- and moderate- 
income housing. 
Encourage the preservation of existing housing whic h is affordable to low- and moderate-
income persons. 
Promote the construction of affordable dwellings wh ich take advantage of Oahu's year-
round moderate climate. 
Encourage the construction of affordable homes with in established low-density 
communities by such means as 'ohana' units, duplex dwellings, and cluster development. 
Encourage the production and maintenance of afforda ble rental housing. 
Encourage the provision of affordable housing desig ned for the elderly and the 
handicapped.  
Encourage equitable relationships between landowner s and leaseholders, between 
landlords and tenants, and between condominium deve lopers and owners. 
Seek public benefits from increases in the value of  land owing to City and State 
developmental policies and decisions. 
Require government-subsidized housing to be deliver ed to appropriate purchasers and 
renters. To reduce speculation in 
land and housing. 
Prohibit the selling or renting of government-subsi dized housing for large profits. 
Encourage residential developments that offer a var iety of homes to people of different 
income levels and to families of various sizes. 
Encourage the fair distribution of low- and moderat e-income housing throughout the 
Island. 
Encourage residential development near employment c enters. 
Encourage residential development in areas where ex isting roads, utilities, and other 
community facilities are not being used to capacity . 
Discourage residential development where roads, uti lities, and community facilities 
cannot be provided at a reasonable cost.  
To provide the people of 
Oahu with a choice of living 
environments which are 
reasonably close to 
employment, recreation, and 
commercial centers and 
which are adequately served 
by public utilities. Preserve older communities through self-help, housi ng-rehabilitation, improvement 
districts, and other governmental programs. 
Develop and maintain an integrated ground-transport ation system consisting of the 
following elements and their primary purposes: 
a. Public transportation-for travel to and from wor k, and travel within Central 
Honolulu 
b.  Roads and highways-for commercial traffic and t ravel in non-urban areas 
c. Bikeways-for recreational activities and trips t o work, schools, shopping centers, 
and community facilities 
d. Pedestrian walkways-for getting around Downtown and Waikiki, and for trips to 
schools, parks, and shopping centers. 
Provide transportation services to people living wi thin the Ewa, Central Oahu, and Pearl 
City-Hawaii Kai corridors primarily through a mass transit system including exclusive 
right-of-way rapid transit and feeder-bus component s as well as through the existing 
highway system with limited improvements as may be appropriate. 
Provide transportation services outside the Ewa, Ce ntral Oahu, and Pearl City-Hawaii Kai 
corridors primarily through a system of express- an d feeder-buses as well as through the 
highway system with limited to moderate improvement s sufficient to meet the needs of 
the communities being served. 
Improve transportation facilities and services in t he Ewa corridor and in the trans-Koolau 
corridors to meet the needs of Ewa and Windward com munities. 
Improve roads in existing communities to reduce con gestion and eliminate unsafe 
conditions. 
Consider both environmental impact as well as const ruction and operating costs as 
important factors in planning alternative nodes of transportation. 
Promote the use of public transportation as a means  of moving people quickly and 
efficiently, of conserving energy. 
Make available transportation services to people wi th limited mobility: the young, the 
elderly, the handicapped, and the poor. TRANSPORTATION & UTILITIES 
 To create a transportation 
system which will enable 
people and goods to move 
safely, efficiently, and at a 
reasonable cost; serve all 
people, including the poor, 
the elderly, and the 
physically handicapped; and 
offer a variety of attractive 
and convenient modes of 
travel. 
Promote programs to reduce dependence on the use of  automobiles.  Page 17   Discourage the inefficient use of the private autom obile, especially in congested corridors 
and during peak-hours. 
Make public, and encourage private, improvements to  major walkway systems. 
Encourage the provision of separate aviation facili ties for small civilian aircraft. 
Develop and maintain an adequate supply of water fo r both residents and visitors. 
Develop and maintain an adequate supply of water fo r agricultural and industrial needs. 
Encourage the development of new technology which w ill reduce the cost of providing 
water and the cost of waste disposal. 
Encourage a lowering of the per-capita consumption of water and the per-capita 
production of waste. 
Provide safe, efficient, and environmentally sensit ive waste-collection and waste- 
disposal services. 
Support programs to recover resources from solid-wa ste and recycle wastewater. To meet the needs of the 
people of Oahu for an 
adequate supply of water 
and for environmentally 
sound systems of waste 
disposal 
Require the safe disposal of hazardous waste. 
Maintain existing utility systems in order to avoid  major breakdowns. 
Provide improvements to utilities in existing neigh borhoods to reduce substandard 
conditions. 
Plan for the timely and orderly expansion of utilit y systems. To maintain a high level of 
service for all utilities. 
Increase the efficiency of public utilities by enco uraging a mixture of uses with peak 
periods of demand occurring at different times of t he day. 
Give primary emphasis in the capital- improvement p rogram to the maintenance and 
improvement of existing roads and utilities. 
Use the transportation and utility systems as a mea ns of guiding growth and the pattern of 
land use on Oahu. 
Encourage the study and use of telecommunications a s an alternative to conventional 
transportation facilities. 
Evaluate the social, economic, and environmental im pact of additions to the 
transportation and utility systems before they are constructed. 
Require the installation of underground utility lin es wherever feasible.  
To maintain transportation 
and utility systems which 
will help Oahu continue to 
be a desirable place to live 
and visit. 
Seek improved taxing powers for the City and County  in order to provide a more 
equitable means of financing transportation and uti lity services. 
Develop and maintain a comprehensive plan to guide and coordinate energy conservation 
and alternative energy development and utilization programs on Oahu. 
Establish economic incentives and regulatory measur es which will reduce Oahu's 
dependence on petroleum as its primary source of en ergy. 
Support programs and projects which contribute to t he attainment of energy self-
sufficiency on Oahu. 
Promote and assist efforts to establish adequate pe troleum reserves within Hawaii's 
boundaries. 
Give adequate consideration to environmental, publi c health, and safety concerns, to 
resource limitations, and to relative costs when ma king decisions concerning alternatives 
for conserving energy and developing natural energy  resources. To maintain an adequate, 
dependable, and economical 
supply of energy for Oahu 
residents. 
Work closely with the State and Federal governments  in the formulation and 
implementation of all City and County energy-relate d programs. 
Ensure that the efficient use of energy is a primar y factor in the preparation and 
administration of land use plans and regulations. 
Provide incentives and, where appropriate, mandator y controls to achieve energy- 
efficient siting and design of new developments. 
Carry out public, and promote private, programs to more efficiently use energy in existing 
buildings and outdoor facilities. To conserve energy through 
the more efficient 
management of its use. 
Promote the development of an energy-efficient tran sportation system. 
Encourage the use of commercially available solar e nergy systems in public facilities, 
institutions, residences, and business developments . ENERGY 
To fully utilize proven 
alternative sources of 
energy. Support the increased use of operational solid wast e energy recovery and other biomass 
energy conversion systems.  Page 18  Support and participate in research, development, d emonstration, and commercialization 
programs aimed at producing new, economical, and en vironmentally sound energy 
supplies from: 
a. solar insolation 
b. biomass energy conversion 
c. wind energy conversion 
d. geothermal energy 
e. ocean thermal energy conversion. To develop and apply new, 
locally available energy 
resources. 
Secure State and Federal support of City and County  efforts to develop new sources of 
energy. 
Supply citizens with the information they need to f ully understand the potential supply, 
cost, and other problems associated with Oahu's dep endence on imported petroleum. 
Foster the development of an energy conservation et hic among Oahu residents. 
Keep consumers informed about available alternative  energy sources and their costs and 
benefits.  
To establish a continuing 
energy information 
program. 
Provide information concerning the impact of public  and private decisions on future 
energy use. 
Provide a safe environment for residents and visito rs on Oahu. 
Provide adequate criminal justice facilities and st affing for City and County law-
enforcement agencies. 
Emphasize improvements to police and prosecution op erations which will result in a 
higher proportion of wrongdoers who are arrested, c onvicted, and punished for their 
crimes 
Keep the public informed of the nature and extent o f criminal activity on Oahu. 
Establish and maintain programs to encourage public  cooperation in the prevention and 
solution of crimes. 
Seek the help of State and Federal law-enforcement agencies to curtail the activities of 
organized crime syndicates on Oahu. 
Conduct periodic reviews of criminal laws to ensure  their relevance to the community's 
needs and values. 
Cooperate with other law-enforcement agencies to de velop new methods of fighting 
crime. To prevent and control 
crime and maintain public 
order. 
Encourage the improvement of rehabilitation program s and facilities for criminals and 
juvenile offenders. 
Keep up-to-date and enforce all City and County saf ety regulations. 
Require all developments in areas subject to floods  and tsunamis to be located and 
constructed in a manner that will not create any he alth or safety hazard. 
Participate with State and Federal agencies in the funding and construction of flood- 
control projects. 
Cooperate with State and Federal agencies to provid e tsunami warning and protection for 
Oahu. 
Cooperate with State and Federal agencies to provid e protection from war, civil 
disruptions, and other major disturbances. 
Reduce hazardous traffic conditions. 
Provide adequate fire protection and effective fire  prevention programs. 
Provide adequate search and rescue and disaster res ponse services. 
Design safe and secure public buildings. 
Provide adequate staff to supervise activities at p ublic facilities. 
Develop civil defense plans and programs to protect  and promote public health, safety and 
welfare of the people. PUBLIC SAFETY 
To protect the people of 
Oahu and their property 
against natural disasters and 
other emergencies, traffic 
and fire hazards, and unsafe 
conditions. 
Provide educational materials on civil defense prep aredness, fire protection, traffic 
hazards and other unsafe conditions. 
Encourage the provision of health-care facilities t hat are accessible to both employment 
and residential centers. 
Encourage prompt and adequate ambulance and first-a id services in all areas of Oahu. To protect the health of the 
people of Oahu. Coordinate City and County health codes and other r egulations with State and Federal 
health codes to facilitate the enforcement of air-,  water-, and noise-pollution controls. 
Support education programs that encourage the devel opment of employable skills. HEALTH AND 
EDUCATION To provide a wide range of 
educational opportunities Encourage the provision of informal educational pro grams for people of all age groups.  Page 19  Encourage the after-hours use of school buildings, grounds, and facilities. 
Encourage the construction of school facilities tha t are designed for flexibility and high 
levels of use. for the people of Oahu. 
Facilitate the appropriate location of learning ins titutions from the preschool through the 
university levels. 
Encourage continuing improvement in the quality of higher education in Hawaii. 
Encourage the development of diverse opportunities in higher education.  
To make Honolulu the 
center of higher education in 
the Pacific. Encourage research institutions to establish branch es on Oahu. 
Encourage the preservation and enhancement of Hawai i's diverse cultures. 
Encourage greater public awareness, understanding, and appreciation of cultural heritage 
and contributions to Hawaii made by the City's vari ous ethnic groups. 
Encourage opportunities for better interaction amon g people with different ethnic, social, 
and cultural backgrounds. To foster the multiethnic 
culture of Hawaii. 
Encourage the protection of the ethnic identities o f the older communities of Oahu. 
Encourage the restoration and preservation of early  Hawaiian structures, artifacts, and 
landmarks. 
Identify, and to the extent possible, preserve and restore buildings, sites, and areas of 
social, cultural, historic, architectural, and arch aeological significance. 
Cooperate with the State and Federal governments in  developing and implementing a 
comprehensive preservation program for social, cult ural, historic, architectural, and 
archaeological resources. 
Promote the interpretive and educational use of cul tural, historic, architectural, and 
archaeological sites, buildings, and artifacts. 
Seek public and private funds, and public participa tion and support, to protect social, 
cultural, historic, architectural, and archaeologic al resources. To protect Oahu's cultural, 
historic, architectural, and 
archaeological resources. 
Provide incentives for the restoration, preservatio n, and maintenance of social, cultural, 
historic, architectural, and archaeological resourc es. 
Encourage and support programs and activities for t he visual and performing arts. 
Encourage creative expression and access to the art s by all segments of the population. To foster the visual and 
performing arts. Provide permanent art in appropriate City public bu ildings and places. 
Develop and maintain community-based parks to meet the needs of the different 
communities on Oahu. 
Develop and maintain a system of regional parks and  specialized recreation facilities. 
Encourage public and private botanic and zoological  parks on Oahu to foster an 
awareness and appreciation of the natural environme nt. 
Encourage the State to develop and maintain a syste m of natural resource-based parks, 
such as beach, shoreline, and mountain parks. 
Provide convenient access to all beaches and inland  recreation areas. 
Provide for recreation programs which serve a broad  spectrum of the population. 
Encourage ocean and water-oriented recreation activ ities that do not adversely impact on 
the natural environment. 
Require all new developments to provide their resid ents with adequate recreation space. 
Encourage the private provision of recreation and l eisure-time facilities and services. 
Encourage the after-hours, weekend, and summertime use of public schools facilities for 
recreation. 
Provide for safe and secure use of public parks, be aches, and recreation facilities. 
Encourage the safe use of Oahu's ocean environments . CULTURE AND RECREATION 
To provide a wide range of 
recreational facilities and 
services that are readily 
available to all residents of 
Oahu. 
Encourage the State and Federal governments to tran sfer excess and underutilized land to 
the City and County for public recreation use. 
Maintain City and County government services at the  level necessary to be effective. 
Promote consolidation of State and City and County functions whenever more efficient 
and effective delivery of government programs and s ervices can be achieved. 
Ensure that government attitudes, actions, and serv ices are sensitive to community needs 
and concerns. To promote increased 
efficiency, effectiveness, 
and responsiveness in the 
provision of government 
services by the City and 
County of Honolulu. Prepare, maintain, and publicize policies and plans  which are adequate to guide and 
coordinate City programs and regulatory responsibil ities. GOVERNMENT 
OPERATIONS AND 
FISCAL 
To ensure fiscal integrity, Provide for a balanced budget.  Page 20   responsibility, and 
efficiency by the City and 
County government in 
carrying out its 
responsibilities. Allocate fiscal resources of the City and County to  efficiently implement the policies of 
the General Plan and Development Plans.  Page 21  HAWAII COUNTY 
Goal Objectives 
Economic development and improvement shall be in ba lance with the physical, social, and 
cultural environments of the island of Hawaii. 
Strive for diversity and stability in the economic system. 
Provide an economic environment that allows new, ex panded, or improved economic 
opportunities that are compatible with the County's  cultural, natural and social environment. 
Strive for an economic climate that provides its re sidents an opportunity for choice of 
occupation. 
Strive for diversification of the economy by streng thening existing industries and attracting new 
endeavors. 
Strive for full employment. ECONOMIC Provide residents with 
opportunities to improve their 
quality of life through 
economic development that 
enhances the County’s natural 
and social environments. 
Promote and develop the island of Hawaii into a uni que scientific and cultural model, where 
economic gains are in balance with social and physi cal amenities. ENERGY Strive towards energy self-sufficiency and establis h the Big Island as a demonstration community for t he development and use of 
natural energy resources. 
Maintain and, if feasible, improve the existing env ironmental quality of the island. ENVIRONMENTAL 
QUALITY Define the most desirable use 
of land within the County that 
achieves an ecological balance 
providing residents and visitors 
the quality of life and an 
environment in which the 
natural resources of the island 
are viable and sustainable. Control pollution. 
Control pollution. 
Prevent damage from inundation. 
Reduce surface water and sediment runoff. FLOODING AND OTHER 
NATURAL HAZARDS Protect human life and prevent 
damage to man-made 
improvements. 
Maximize soil and water conservation. 
Appropriate access to significant historic sites, b uildings, and objects of public interest should 
be made available. HISTORIC 
SITES Protect, restore, and enhance 
the sites, buildings, and objects 
of significant historical and 
cultural importance to Hawaii. Enhance the understanding of man’s place on the lan dscape by understanding the system of 
ahupuaa. 
Protect scenic vistas and view planes from becoming  obstructed. NATURAL 
RESOURCE 
S AND Protect, preserve and enhance 
the quality of areas endowed 
with natural beauty, including 
the quality of coastal scenic 
resources. Maximize opportunities for present and future gener ations to appreciate and enjoy natural and 
scenic beauty. 
Attain a diversity of socio-economic housing mix th roughout the different parts of the County. 
Maintain a housing supply that allows a variety of choices. 
Create viable communities with affordable housing a nd suitable living environments. 
Improve and maintain the quality and affordability of the existing housing inventory. 
Seek sufficient production of new affordable rental  and fee-simple housing in the County in a 
variety of sizes to satisfactorily accommodate the needs and desires of families and 
individuals. 
Ensure that housing is available to all persons reg ardless of age, sex, marital status, ethnic 
background, and income. HOUSING Attain safe, sanitary, and 
livable housing for the 
residents of the County of 
Hawaii. 
Make affordable housing available in reasonable pro ximity to employment centers.  Page 22    Encourage and expand home ownership opportunities f or residents. 
Encourage combining schoolyards with county parks a nd allow school facilities for afterschool 
use by the community for recreational, cultural, an d other compatible uses. 
Encourage continuous joint pre-planning of schools with the Department of Education and the 
University of Hawaii to ensure coordination with ro ads, water, and other support facilities and 
considerations such as traffic and safety, and acce ss for vehicle, bicycle, and pedestrian. 
Encourage joint community-school library facilities , where a separate community library may 
not be feasible, in proximity to other community fa cilities, affording both pedestrian and 
vehicular access. 
Encourage implementation of the Department of Educa tion's 'Educational Specifications and 
Standards for Facilities.' EDUCATION Encourage master 
planning of present and 
proposed public and 
private institutions. 
Encourage the Hawaii State Library System to seek a lternate sites for public libraries located 
on the campuses of public schools. 
Development of police and fire facilities should en tail joint use structures whenever feasible. 
The establishment of a fire/police facility shall c onsider site size and locations that permit 
quick and efficient vehicular access. 
Development of volunteer fire facilities with prope r planning to be replaced or to co-exist with 
full time Fire/EMS personnel. 
Police headquarters shall be near the geographic ce nter of the service area and near 
concentrations of commercial and industrial use. 
Stations in outlying districts shall be based on th e population to be served and response time 
rather than on geographic district. 
Correctional facilities should emphasize rehabilita tion. Establish additional rehabilitation and 
counseling centers, including drug and behavioral t reatment facilities in secure settings, when 
necessary. 
Encourage the further development and expansion of community policing programs and 
neighborhood and farm watch programs in urban, rura l and agricultural communities. 
The County of Hawaii Emergency Operations Center sh all be improved to meet the 
requirements set forth by federal and State regulat ions. 
Maintain an appropriate number and type of emergenc y helicopters, including appropriate aero 
medical capabilities. 
Mitigate hazards through the preparation of disaste r assessment reports and appropriate follow-
up on the assessment recommendations. 
Educate the public regarding disaster preparedness and response, especially proper responses 
for sudden impact hazards. 
Encourage the State to evaluate the disaster shelte rs’ ability to withstand various natural 
disasters. 
Consider the proximity to fire stations in approvin g any rezoning to permit urban development. PROTECTIVE SERVICES  
The Fire Department, in cooperation with other rela ted governmental agencies and the 
involved land owners, shall prepare a fire protecti on and prevention plan for forest reserves 
and other natural areas. 
Develop and implement a cemeteries master plan for the siting of future cemeteries. 
Appropriately designed and cost-effective solid was te transfer station sites shall be located in 
areas of convenience and easy access to the public.  
Encourage the State to continue operation of the ru ral hospitals. 
Encourage the establishment or expansion of communi ty health centers and rural health clinics. 
Continue to encourage programs such as recycling to  reduce the flow of refuse deposited in 
landfills. PUBLIC FACILITIES 
HEALTH AND SANITATION OPERATIONS Encourage the 
development of new 
health care facilities or 
the improvement of 
existing health care 
facilities to serve the 
needs of Hamakua, 
North and South Kohala, 
and North and South 
Kona. 
Investigate the possibility of developing new landf ill sites on the island.  Page 23   
  Encourage the full development and implementation o f a green waste recycling program. 
All water systems shall be designed and built to De partment of Water Supply standards. 
Improve and replace inadequate systems. 
Water sources shall be adequately protected to prev ent depletion and contamination from 
natural and man-made occurrences or events. 
Water system improvements should be first installed  in areas that have established needs and 
characteristics, such as occupied dwellings, agricu ltural operations and other uses, or in areas 
adjacent to them if there is need for urban expansi on. 
A coordinated effort by County, State and private i nterests shall be developed to identify 
sources of additional water supply and be implement ed to ensure the development of sufficient 
quantities of water for existing and future needs o f high growth areas and agricultural 
production. 
The fire prevention systems shall be coordinated wi th water distribution systems in order to 
ensure water supplies for fire protection purposes.  
Develop and adopt standards for individual water ca tchment units. 
Cooperate with the State Department of Health to de velop standards and/or guidelines for the 
construction and use of rainwater catchment systems  to minimize the intrusion of any chemical 
and microbiological contaminants. 
Cooperate with appropriate State and Federal agenci es and the private sector to develop, 
improve and expand agricultural water systems in ap propriate areas on the island. 
Promote the use of ground water sources to meet Sta te Department of Health water quality 
standards. 
Continue to participate in the United States Geolog ical Survey's exploratory well drilling 
program. WATER Water system 
improvements shall 
correlate with the 
County's desired land use 
development pattern. 
 
 
Develop and adopt a 
water master plan that 
will consider water yield, 
present and future 
demand, alternative 
sources of water, 
guidelines and policies 
for the issuing of water 
commitments. 
Seek State and Federal funds to assist in financing  projects to bring the County into 
compliance with the Safe Drinking Water Act. 
Encourage underground telephone lines where they ar e economically and technically feasible. 
Develop standards for the construction of wireless telecommunication facilities. TELECOMMUNICATIONS Work with the 
telecommunications 
industry to increase the 
availability of emergency 
telephones throughout 
the island. Work closely with the telephone company to provide all users with efficient service. 
Power distribution shall be placed underground when  and where practical. Encourage 
developers of new urban areas to place utilities un derground. 
Route selection for high voltage transmission lines  should include consideration for setbacks 
from major thoroughfares and residential areas. Whe re feasible, delineate energy corridors for 
such high voltage transmission lines. 
Continue to advise the electrical utility companies  on the future revisions of their 
comprehensive Integrated Resource Plans. ELECTRICITY  
Conform to safety standards as established by appro priate regulatory authorities. GAS Gas storage facilities 
shall be located to 
minimize danger to 
commercial and 
residential areas. County ordinances shall reflect appropriate safety standards for gas facilities. 
Private systems shall be installed by land develope rs for major resort and other developments 
along shorelines and sensitive higher inland areas,  except where connection to nearby 
treatment facilities is feasible and compatible wit h the County's long-range plans, and in 
conformance with State and County requirements. PUBLIC UTILITIES 
SEWER Continue to seek State 
and Federal funds to 
finance the construction 
of proposed sewer 
systems and improve 
existing systems. Immediate steps should be taken to designate treatm ent plant sites, sewerage pump station 
sites, and sewer easements according to the facilit y plans to facilitate their acquisition.  Page 24  Plans for wastewater reclamation and reuse for irri gation and biosolids composting (remaining 
solids from the treatment of wastewater is processe d into a reusable organic material) shall be 
utilized where feasible and needed.  
  
Require major developments to connect to existing s ewer treatment facilities or build their 
own. 
Maintain the natural beauty of recreation areas. RECREATION Provide a wide variety of 
recreational opportunities for 
the residents and visitors of the 
County Provide a diversity of environments for active and passive pursuits. 
A framework of transportation facilities that will promote and influence desired land use shall 
be established by concerned agencies. 
The agencies concerned with transportation systems shall provide for present traffic and future 
demands, including the programmed development of ma ss transit programs for high growth 
areas by both the private and public sectors. 
The improvement of transportation service shall be encouraged. 
Consider the provision of adequate transportation s ystems to enhance the economic viability of 
a given area. 
Develop a comprehensive, islandwide multi-modal tra nsportation plan that identifies the 
location and operation of automobile, mass transit,  bicycle and pedestrian systems, in 
coordination with appropriate Federal and State age ncies. TRANSPORTATION Provide a transportation 
system whereby people and 
goods can move efficiently, 
safely, comfortably and 
economically. Make available 
a variety of modes of 
transportation that best meets 
the needs of the County. 
 
Work with various non-profit agencies to coordinate  transportation opportunities. 
Implement new approaches to preserve important agri cultural land. 
Assist in the development of basic resources such a s water, roads, transportation and 
distribution facilities for the agricultural indust ry. 
Assist other State agencies, such as the University  of Hawaii, College of Tropical Agriculture 
and Human Resources, University of Hawaii at Hilo, College of Agriculture, Forestry and 
Natural Resources Management, Department of Busines s, Economic Development and 
Tourism, Office of Planning, Department of Land and  Natural Resources and Department of 
Agriculture, on programs that aid agriculture. 
Agricultural land may be used as one form of open s pace or as green belt. 
Coordinate and encourage efforts to solve the probl ems of the agricultural industry in the 
County of Hawaii. 
In order to minimize the potential conflicts betwee n agricultural and non-agricultural uses, 
standards and guidelines for the establishment of w ell defined buffer 
areas as part of new, non-agricultural developments  that are located adjacent to important 
agricultural lands shall be developed. 
Land zoned for use in the Rural District shall be e xpanded, where appropriate. 
Develop subdivision standards that make a distincti on between agricultural and urban land 
uses. 
Designate, protect and maintain important agricultu ral lands from urban encroachment. 
Ensure that development of important agricultural l and be primarily for agricultural use. 
Support the development of private and State agricu ltural parks to make agricultural land 
available for agricultural activities. 
Investigate possibilities to prevent non-agricultur al uses that could interfere with potential or 
existing agricultural activities on important agric ultural lands. 
Support efforts to provide tax relief and other inc entives to enhance competitive capabilities of 
commercial farms and ranches, thereby insuring long -term preservation, enhancement, and 
expansion of viable agricultural lands. 
Ensure that condominium property regimes (CPR) on a gricultural-designated lands comply 
with the requirements of the Zoning Code and other applicable laws, rules and regulations. 
Farm labor housing projects shall be developed in a  manner that minimizes the use of 
important agricultural lands and is consistent with  the character of surrounding land uses. LAND USE 
AGRICULTURE Identify, protect and 
maintain important 
agriculture lands on the 
island of Hawaii. 
 
 
 
Preserve the agricultural 
character of the island. 
 
 
 
Preserve and enhance 
opportunities for the 
expansion of Hawaii’s 
Agricultural Industry. 
Encourage, where appropriate, the establishment of visitor-related uses and facilities that 
directly promote the agriculture industry.  Page 25  Important agricultural lands shall not be rezoned t o parcels too small to support economically 
viable farming units. 
Discourage speculative residential development on a gricultural lands.   
Encourage other compatible economic uses that compl ement existing agricultural and pastoral 
activities. 
Urban renewal, rehabilitation, and/or redevelopment  programs shall be undertaken in 
cooperation with communities, businesses and govern mental agencies. 
Commercial facilities shall be developed in areas a dequately served by necessary services, 
such as water, utilities, sewers, and transportatio n systems. Should such services not be 
available, the development of more intensive uses s hould be in concert with a localized 
program of public and private capital improvements to meet the expected increased needs. 
Distribution of commercial areas shall meet the dem ands of neighborhood, community and 
regional needs. 
Existing strip development shall be converted to mo re appropriate uses when and where it is 
feasible. 
Encourage the concentration of commercial uses with in and surrounding a central core area. 
The development of commercial facilities should be designed to fit into the locale with 
minimal intrusion while providing the desired servi ces. Appropriate infrastructure and design 
concerns shall be incorporated into the review of s uch developments. 
Require developers to provide basic infrastructure necessary for development. COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT Provide for commercial 
developments that 
maximize convenience to 
users. 
 
 
Provide commercial 
developments that 
complement the overall 
pattern of transportation 
and land usage within the 
island's regions, 
communities, and 
neighborhoods. 
Encourage commercial areas to develop on an axis pe rpendicular to the highway. 
Support the creation of industrial parks in appropr iate locations as an alternative to strip 
development. 
Achieve a broader diversification of local industri es by providing opportunities for new 
industries and strengthening existing industries. 
Locate industrial areas convenient to transportatio n facilities, and provide a variety of 
industrial zoned districts and lot sizes, depending  on the needs of the industries and the 
communities. 
Improve the aesthetic quality of industrial sites a nd protect amenities of adjacent areas by 
requiring landscaping, open spaces, buffer zones, a nd design guidelines. 
Industrial development shall be located in areas ad equately served by transportation, utilities, 
and other essential infrastructure. 
Provide flexibility within the Zoning Code to accom modate emerging new industries. 
Industrial-commercial mixed use districts shall be provided in appropriate locations. INDUSTRIAL Designate and allocate 
industrial areas in 
appropriate proportions 
and in keeping with the 
social, cultural, and 
physical environments of 
the County. 
 
Promote and encourage 
the rehabilitation of 
industrial areas that are 
serviced by basic 
community facilities and 
utilities. Require developers to provide basic infrastructure necessary for development. 
Appropriately zoned lands shall be allocated as the  demand for multiple residential dwellings 
increases. These areas shall be allocated with resp ect to places of employment, shopping 
facilities, educational, recreational and cultural facilities, and public facilities and utilities. 
Incorporate reasonable flexibility in applicable co des and ordinances to achieve a diversity of 
socio-economic housing mix. 
Encourage flexibility in the design of residential sites, buildings and related facilities to 
achieve a diversity of socio-economic housing mix a nd innovative means of meeting the 
market requirements. 
The rehabilitation and/or utilization of multiple r esidential areas shall be encouraged. 
To assure the use of multiple residential zoned are as and to curb speculation and resale of 
undeveloped lots only, the County may impose increm ental and conditional zoning, which 
shall be based on performance requirements. 
Support the rezoning of those multiple residentiall y zoned lands that are used for other 
purposes to a more appropriate zoning designation. MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL To provide for multiple 
residential developments 
that maximize 
convenience for its 
occupants. 
 
To provide for suitable 
living environments that 
accommodate the 
physical, social and 
economic needs of the 
island residents.  
 
To enhance the overall 
quality of life in our 
residential communities. Require developers to provide basic infrastructure necessary for development. 
To assure the orderly use of single-family resident ial zoned areas and to curb speculation and 
resale of undeveloped lots, the County may impose i ncremental and conditional zoning, which 
would be based on performance requirements. This is  to assure that a certain percentage of 
buildings will be constructed.  
SINGLE-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL  To maximize choices of 
single-family residential 
lots and/or housing for 
residents of the County. 
 
To ensure compatible 
uses within and adjacent 
to single-family Encourage innovative uses of land with respect to g eologic and topographic conditions through 
the use of residential cluster and planned unit dev elopments.  Page 26  Encourage and coordinate with the State in providin g fee simple and leasehold single-family 
residential lots to the residents through State and /or County Housing Programs. 
Incorporate reasonable flexibility in codes and ord inances to achieve a diversity of socio-
economic housing mix and to permit aesthetic balanc e between single-family residential 
structures and open spaces. 
Re-evaluate existing undeveloped single-family resi dential zoned areas and reallocate zoned 
lands in appropriate locations. 
Designate and allocate single-family residential zo ned lands at varying densities for future use 
in accordance with the needs of the communities and  the stated goals, policies, and standards. 
Rural-style residential-agricultural developments, such as new small scale rural communities 
or extensions of existing rural communities, shall be encouraged in appropriate locations. 
Review and amend land use ordinances and codes to i nclude considerations for rural-style 
residential subdivisions in appropriate locations. Standards and criteria for the establishment of 
these areas shall be developed.  residential zoned areas. 
 
To rehabilitate and/or 
rebuild deteriorating 
single-family residential 
areas. 
 
To provide single-family 
residential areas 
conveniently located to 
public and private 
services, shopping, other 
community activities and 
convenient access to 
employment centers that 
takes natural beauty into 
consideration. 
 
To enhance the overall 
quality of life in our 
residential communities. Require developers to provide basic infrastructure necessary for development. 
The County may impose incremental and conditional z oning that would be based on 
performance requirements. 
Promote and encourage the rehabilitation and the op timum utilization of resort areas that are 
presently serviced by basic facilities and utilitie s. 
Lands currently designated Resort should be utilize d before new resorts are allowed in 
undeveloped coastal areas. 
Zoning of resort areas shall be granted when the pr oposed development is consistent with and 
incorporates the stated goals, policies and standar ds of the General Plan. 
Continue to seek funds from the State Capital Impro vement Program to help develop visitor 
destination areas in accordance with the County's G eneral Plan. 
Designate and allocate future resort areas in appro priate proportions and in keeping with the 
social, economic, and physical environments of the County. 
Evaluate resort areas and the areas surrounding exi sting resorts to insure that viable quality 
resorts are developed and that the surrounding area  contributes to the quality, ambience and 
character of the existing resorts. 
Encourage the visitor industry to provide resort fa cilities that offer an educational experience 
of Hawaii as well as recreational activities. 
Coastal resort developments shall provide public ac cess to and parking for beach and shoreline 
areas. 
Re-evaluate existing undeveloped resort designated and/or zoned areas and reallocate these 
lands in appropriate locations. RESORT Maintain an orderly 
development of the 
visitor industry. 
 
Provide for resort 
development that 
maximizes conveniences 
to its users and optimizes 
the benefits derived by 
the residents of the 
County. 
 
Ensure that resort 
developments maintain 
the cultural and historic, 
social, economic, and 
physical environments of 
Hawaii and its people. 
Require developers to provide the basic infrastruct ure necessary for development. 
Open space shall reflect and be in keeping with the  goals, policies, and standards set forth in 
the other elements of the General Plan. 
Encourage the identification, evaluation, and desig nation of natural areas. 
Zoning, subdivision and other applicable ordinances  shall provide for and protect open space 
areas. OPEN SPACE Provide and protect open 
space for the social, 
environmental, and 
economic wellbeing of 
the County of Hawaii 
and its residents. 
 
Protect designated 
natural areas. Amend the Zoning Code to create a category for land s that should be kept in a largely natural 
state, but that may not be in the Conservation Dist rict, such as certain important viewplanes, 
buffer areas, and very steep slopes. 
Encourage uses of public lands that will satisfy sp ecific public needs, such as housing, 
recreation, open space and education. 
Encourage the adoption of State programs for State lands consistent with the General Plan. 
State and County Capital Improvement Programs shoul d continue to be coordinated.  
PUBLIC LANDS Utilize publicly owned 
lands in the best public 
interest and to the 
maximum benefit for the 
greatest number of 
people. 
 
Acquire lands for public 
use to implement policies A sub-classification, University use, shall continu e to be utilized, permitting the primary 
institutional and numerous supportive and accessory  uses required for establishing and/or 
expanding a public university. Its designation shal l continue to be shown on the Land Use 
Pattern Allocation Guide map.  Page 27  Support the U.S. Department of Interior, National P ark Service’s expansion plans for the 
Hawaii Volcanoes, Puukohola and Puuhonua O Honaunau  National Historic Parks.  
 use to implement policies 
and programs contained 
in the General Plan. Encourage the State to continue the Villages of Lai ’opua project at Kealakehe. 
 Maui Total population: Total 1,211,537    128,094     10.6% 18,009           14.1% 41,461         32.4% 22,913         17.9% 11,465       9.0% 1,855             1.4% 20,604         16.1% 
Total population: Rural 102,358       8.4% 15,890       12.4% 902                5.0% 582              1.4% 518              2.3% 3,327         29.0% 1,855             100.0% 4,065           19.7% 
Total population: Urban 1,109,179    91.6% 112,204     87.6% 17,107           95.0% 40,879         98.6% 22,395         97.7% 8,138         71.0% -                 0.0% 16,539         80.3% 
Total population: Rural; Farm 5,838           5.7% 1,091         6.9% -                 0.0% 31                5.3% 12                2.3% 280            8.4% 169                9.1% 532              13.1% 
Total population: Rural; Nonfarm 96,520         94.3% 14,799       93.1% 902                100.0% 551              94.7% 506              97.7% 3,047         91.6% 1,686             90.9% 3,533           86.9% 
Total population: Urban; Inside urban clusters 272,8 61       22.5% 112,204     87.6% 17,107           95.0% 40,879         98.6% 22,395         97.7% 8,138         71.0% -                 0.0% 16,539         80.3% 
Total population: Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific  Islander 129,849       10.7% 17,008       13.3% 1,865             10.4% 5,480           13.2% 1,575           6.9% 2,082         18.2% 654                35.3% 2,224           10.8% 
Total population: Male; 16 years and older 473,542       39.1% 49,448       38.6% 7,558             42.0% 15,535         37.5% 9,291           40.5% 4,454         38.8% 691                37.3% 7,642           37.1% 
Total population: Female; 16 years and older 476,513       39.3% 49,878       38.9% 6,890             38.3% 16,226         39.1% 9,087           39.7% 4,471         39.0% 679                36.6% 8,106           39.3% 
Housing units: Total 460,542       N/A 56,377       N/A 10,469           N/A 13,384         N/A 14,887         N/A 4,268         N/A 872                N/A 7,587           N/A 
Housing units: Rural 45,822         9.9% 8,230         14.6% 866                8.3% 264              2.0% 914              6.1% 1,409         33.0% 872                100.0% 1,693           22.3% 
Housing units: Urban 414,720       90.1% 48,147       85.4% 9,603             91.7% 13,120         98.0% 13,973         93.9% 2,859         67.0% -                 0.0% 5,894           77.7% 
Housing units: Rural; Farm 1,980           4.3% 337            4.1% -                 0.0% 6                  2.3% 7                  0.8% 56              4.0% 48                  5.5% 192              11.3% 
Housing units: Rural; Nonfarm 43,842         95.7% 7,893         95.9% 866                100.0% 258              97.7% 907              99.2% 1,353         96.0% 824                94.5% 1,501           88.7% 
Housing units: Inside urban clusters 112,047       24.3% 48,147       85.4% 9,603             91.7% 13,120         98.0% 13,973         93.9% 2,859         67.0% -                 0.0% 5,894           77.7% 
Population for whom poverty status is determined: I ncome in 1999 
below poverty level 126,154       10.4% 13,252       10.3% 1,505             8.4% 4,235           10.2% 2,076           9.1% 1,582         13.8% 321                17.3% 1,597           7.8% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation for 
whom poverty status is determined: Income in 1999 b elow poverty 
level 107,320       82.6% 13,492       79.3% 1,793             96.1% 4,331           79.0% 1,334           84.7% 956            45.9% 565                86.4% 1,585           71.3% 
Population 16 years and over: Male; In labor force;  Civilian; 
Unemployed 20,326         4.3% 1,909         3.9% 273                3.6% 655              4.2% 300              3.2% 136            3.1% 46                  6.7% 202              2.6% 
Population 16 years and over: Female; In labor forc e; Civilian; 
Unemployed 15,560         3.3% 1,375         2.8% 156                2.3% 390              2.4% 301              3.3% 143            3.2% 11                  1.6% 225              2.8% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; In labor force; Civilian; Une mployed 3,368           2.6% 362            2.1% 67                  3.6% 93                1.7% 21                1.3% 15              0.7% 22                  3.4% 30                1.3% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; In labor force; Civilian; U nemployed 2,432           1.9% 318            1.9% 35                  1.9% 91                1.7% 60                3.8% 13              0.6% 1                    0.2% 53                2.4% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; Not in labor force 12,554         9.7% 1,359         8.0% 244                13.1% 381              7.0% 123              7.8% 67              3.2% 68                  10.4% 97                4.4% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; Not in labor force 16,663         12.8% 1,788         10.5% 179                9.6% 670              12.2% 142              9.0% 129            6.2% 98                  15.0% 88                4.0% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation: Per 
capita income in 1999 14,375 $      N/A 14,547 $    N/A 17,169 $        N/A 18,664 $      N/A 16,936 $      N/A 19,013 $    N/A 11,614 $        N/A 18,490 $      N/A 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting; and mining 8,386           1.8% 1,519         3.1% 99                  1.3% 345              2.2% 125              1.3% 223            5.0% 69                  10.0% 393              5.1% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting 8,222           1.7% 1,513         3.1% 99                  1.3% 345              2.2% 125              1.3% 223            5.0% 69                  10.0% 387              5.1% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farmers 
and farm managers 2,915           0.6% 522            1.1% 9                    0.1% 37                0.2% 17                0.2% 136            3.1% 46                  6.7% 213              2.8% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farming; 
fishing; and forestry occupations 4,766           1.0% 883            1.8% 91                  1.2% 321              2.1% 68                0.7% 77              1.7% 25                  3.6% 136              1.8% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; All 
industries except agriculture; forestry; fishing an d hunting; and 
mining; Unpaid family workers 749              0.2% 104            0.2% 20                  0.3% 35                0.2% 16                0.2% 5                0.1% 2                    0.3% 23                0.3% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 3 
years and over: Enrolled in college 6,667           5.9% 508            3.7% 53                  2.8% 177              3.9% 41                3.1% 31              3.3% 18                  2.9% 54                3.8% 
Total population 3 years and over enrolled in schoo l (Imputed + 
Not Imputed) 320,842       26.5% 31,729       24.8% 3,621             20.1% 10,584         25.5% 4,884           21.3% 3,035         26.5% 528                28.5% 5,648           27.4% 
Population 25 years and over: Not imputed 747,699       61.7% 78,922       61.6% 11,040           61.3% 24,761         59.7% 14,934         65.2% 7,172         62.6% 1,107             59.7% 13,082         63.5% 
Population 25 years and over: Male; High school gra duate 
(includes equivalency) 113,269       15.1% 12,742       16.1% 1,911             17.3% 4,264           17.2% 2,150           14.4% 1,061         14.8% 285                25.7% 1,789           13.7% 
Population 25 years and over: Female; High school g raduate 
(includes equivalency) 115,563       15.5% 12,514       15.9% 2,093             19.0% 4,293           17.3% 1,966           13.2% 907            12.6% 200                18.1% 1,881           14.4% Urban Rural 
State Maui County Lahaina Wailuku Kihei Paia Hana Makawao 
Population Characteristics Housing Characteristics Poverty Characteristics Unemployment Charactertistics 
Urban Rural 
State Maui County Lahaina Wailuku Kihei Paia Hana Makawao 
Economic Characteristics Educational Characteristics 
SMS, Inc. Appendix C | D Total population: Total 1,211,537    128,094     10.6% 147                0.0% 7,404             5.8% 
Total population: Rural 102,358       8.4% 15,890       12.4% 147                100.0% 4,283             57.8% 
Total population: Urban 1,109,179    91.6% 112,204     87.6% -                0.0% 3,121             42.2% 
Total population: Rural; Farm 5,838           0.5% 1,091         0.9% -                0.0% 67                 0.9% 
Total population: Rural; Nonfarm 96,520         8.0% 14,799       11.6% 147                100.0% 4,216             56.9% 
Total population: Urban; Inside urban clusters 272,8 61       22.5% 112,204     87.6% -                0.0% 3,121             42.2% 
Total population: Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific  Islander 129,849       10.7% 17,008       13.3% 88                 59.9% 2,755             37.2% 
Total population: Male; 16 years and older 473,542       39.1% 49,448       38.6% 88                 59.9% 2,616             35.3% 
Total population: Female; 16 years and older 476,513       39.3% 49,878       38.9% 59                 40.1% 2,707             36.6% 
Housing units: Total 460,542       38.0% 56,377       44.0% 172                117.0% 3,185             43.0% 
Housing units: Rural 45,822         9.9% 8,230         14.6% 172                100.0% 2,084             65.4% 
Housing units: Urban 414,720       90.1% 48,147       85.4% -                0.0% 1,101             34.6% 
Housing units: Rural; Farm 1,980           0.4% 337            0.6% -                0.0% 28                 0.9% 
Housing units: Rural; Nonfarm 43,842         9.5% 7,893         14.0% 172                100.0% 2,056             64.6% 
Housing units: Inside urban clusters 112,047       24.3% 48,147       85.4% -                0.0% 1,101             34.6% 
Population for whom poverty status is determined: I ncome in 1999 
below poverty level 126,154       10.4% 13,252       10.3% 59                 40.1% 1,578             21.3% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation for 
whom poverty status is determined: Income in 1999 b elow poverty 
level 107,320       82.6% 13,492       79.3% 44                 50.0% 2,663             96.7% 
Population 16 years and over: Male; In labor force;  Civilian; 
Unemployed 20,326         4.3% 1,909         3.9% -                0.0% 223                8.5% 
Population 16 years and over: Female; In labor forc e; Civilian; 
Unemployed 15,560         3.3% 1,375         2.8% -                0.0% 115                4.4% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; In labor force; Civilian; Une mployed 3,368           2.6% 362            2.1% -                0.0% 102                3.7% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; In labor force; Civilian; U nemployed 2,432           1.9% 318            1.9% -                0.0% 65                 2.4% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; Not in labor force 12,554         9.7% 1,359         8.0% 44                 50.0% 380                13.8% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; Not in labor force 16,663         12.8% 1,788         10.5% -                0.0% 421                15.3% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation: Per 
capita income in 1999 14,375 $      N/A 14,547 $    N/A 11,416 $        N/A 11,408 $        N/A 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting; and mining 8,386           1.8% 1,519         3.1% -                0.0% 191                7.3% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting 8,222           1.7% 1,513         3.1% -                0.0% 191                7.3% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farmers 
and farm managers 2,915           0.6% 522            1.1% -                0.0% 54                 2.1% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farming; 
fishing; and forestry occupations 4,766           1.0% 883            1.8% -                0.0% 112                4.3% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; All 
industries except agriculture; forestry; fishing an d hunting; and 
mining; Unpaid family workers 749              0.2% 104            0.2% -                0.0% 3                   0.1% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 3 
years and over: Enrolled in college 6,667           5.9% 508            3.7% -                0.0% 103                3.7% 
Total population 3 years and over enrolled in schoo l (Imputed + 
Not Imputed) 320,842       26.5% 31,729       24.8% -                0.0% 2,307             31.2% 
Population 25 years and over: Not imputed 747,699       61.7% 78,922       61.6% 147                100.0% 4,269             57.7% 
Population 25 years and over: Male; High school gra duate 
(includes equivalency) 113,269       15.1% 12,742       16.1% 15                 10.2% 862                20.2% 
Population 25 years and over: Female; High school g raduate 
(includes equivalency) 115,563       15.5% 12,514       15.9% 14                 9.5% 812                19.0% Rural 
State Maui County Kalawao County Molokai 
Population Characteristics 
Housing Characteristics 
Poverty Characteristics 
Unemployment Charactertistics 
Economic Characteristics 
Educational Characteristics Rural 
State Maui County Kalawao County Molokai 
SMS, Inc. Appendix C | D Total population: Total 1,211,537    128,094     10.6% 3,193             2.5% 
Total population: Rural 102,358       8.4% 15,890       12.4% 505                15.8% 
Total population: Urban 1,109,179    91.6% 112,204     87.6% 2,688             84.2% 
Total population: Rural; Farm 5,838           5.7% 1,091         6.9% -                 0.0% 
Total population: Rural; Nonfarm 96,520         94.3% 14,799       93.1% 505                100.0% 
Total population: Urban; Inside urban clusters 272,8 61       22.5% 112,204     87.6% 2,688             84.2% 
Total population: Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific  Islander 129,849       10.7% 17,008       13.3% 285                8.9% 
Total population: Male; 16 years and older 473,542       39.1% 49,448       38.6% 1,169             36.6% 
Total population: Female; 16 years and older 476,513       39.3% 49,878       38.9% 1,236             38.7% 
Housing units: Total 460,542       N/A 56,377       N/A 1,384             N/A 
Housing units: Rural 45,822         9.9% 8,230         14.6% 300                21.7% 
Housing units: Urban 414,720       90.1% 48,147       85.4% 1,084             78.3% 
Housing units: Rural; Farm 1,980           4.3% 337            4.1% -                 0.0% 
Housing units: Rural; Nonfarm 43,842         95.7% 7,893         95.9% 300                100.0% 
Housing units: Inside urban clusters 112,047       9.2% 48,147       37.6% 1,084             33.9% 
Population for whom poverty status is determined: I ncome in 1999 
below poverty level 126,154       10.4% 13,252       10.3% 300                9.4% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation for 
whom poverty status is determined: Income in 1999 b elow poverty 
level 107,320       82.6% 13,492       79.3% 221                77.5% 
Population 16 years and over: Male; In labor force;  Civilian; 
Unemployed 20,326         4.3% 1,909         3.9% 47                  4.0% 
Population 16 years and over: Female; In labor forc e; Civilian; 
Unemployed 15,560         3.3% 1,375         2.8% 32                  2.6% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; In labor force; Civilian; Une mployed 3,368           2.6% 362            2.1% -                 0.0% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; In labor force; Civilian; U nemployed 2,432           1.9% 318            1.9% -                 0.0% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; Not in labor force 12,554         9.7% 1,359         8.0% 22                  7.7% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; Not in labor force 16,663         12.8% 1,788         10.5% 31                  10.9% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation: Per 
capita income in 1999 14,375 $      N/A 14,547 $    N/A 14,814 $        N/A 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting; and mining 8,386           1.8% 1,519         3.1% 24                  2.1% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting 8,222           1.7% 1,513         3.1% 24                  2.1% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farmers 
and farm managers 2,915           0.6% 522            1.1% 5                    0.4% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farming; 
fishing; and forestry occupations 4,766           1.0% 883            1.8% 7                    0.6% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; All 
industries except agriculture; forestry; fishing an d hunting; and 
mining; Unpaid family workers 749              0.1% 104            0.1% -                 0.0% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 3 
years and over: Enrolled in college 6,667           5.9% 508            3.7% 20                  9.0% 
Total population 3 years and over enrolled in schoo l (Imputed + 
Not Imputed) 320,842       26.5% 31,729       24.8% 843                26.4% 
Population 25 years and over: Not imputed 747,699       61.7% 78,922       61.6% 1,908             59.8% 
Population 25 years and over: Male; High school gra duate 
(includes equivalency) 113269 15.1% 12742 16.1% 291 15.3% 
Population 25 years and over: Female; High school g raduate 
(includes equivalency) 115563 15.5% 12514 15.9% 269 14.1% Rural 
State Maui County Lanai 
Population Characteristics 
Housing Characteristics 
Poverty Characteristics 
Unemployment Charactertistics 
Economic Characteristics 
Educational Characteristics Rural 
State Maui County Lanai 
SMS, Inc. Appendix C | D Total population: Total 1,211,537    58,463       4.8% 6,860             11.7% 6,348           10.9% 18,525        31.7% 5,824       10.0% 9,313       15.9% 6,276       10.7% 
Total population: Rural 102,358       8.4% 10,951       18.7% 413                6.0% 6,348           100.0% 1,896          10.2% 399          6.9% 349          3.7% 1,391       22.2% 
Total population: Urban 1,109,179    91.6% 47,512       81.3% 6,447             94.0% -               0.0% 16,629        89.8% 5,425       93.1% 8,964       96.3% 4,885       77.8% 
Total population: Rural; Farm 5,838           0.5% 515            0.9% -                 0.0% 250              3.9% 208             1.1% 9              0.2% -           0.0% 48            0.8% 
Total population: Rural; Nonfarm 96,520         8.0% 10,436       17.9% 413                6.0% 6,098           96.1% 1,688          9.1% 390          6.7% 349          3.7% 1,343       21.4% 
Total population: Urban; Inside urban clusters 272,8 61       22.5% 47,512       81.3% 6,447             94.0% -               0.0% 16,629        89.8% 5,425       93.1% 8,964       96.3% 4,885       77.8% 
Total population: Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific  Islander alone 129,849       10.7% 6,307         10.8% 953                13.9% 444              7.0% 2,528          13.6% 1,154       19.8% 561          6.0% 667          10.6% 
Total population: Male; 16 years and older 473,542       39.1% 22,264       38.1% 2,642             38.5% 2,502           39.4% 6,818          36.8% 2,266       38.9% 3,639       39.1% 2,390       38.1% 
Total population: Female; 16 years and older 476,513       39.3% 22,656       38.8% 2,594             37.8% 2,421           38.1% 6,994          37.8% 2,304       39.6% 3,707       39.8% 2,363       37.7% 
Housing units: Total 460,542       38.0% 25,331       43.3% 2,273             33.1% 3,796           59.8% 7,419          40.0% 2,256       38.7% 5,090       54.7% 2,239       35.7% 
Housing units: Rural 45,822         9.9% 6,154         24.3% 344                15.1% 3,796           100.0% 791             10.7% 236          10.5% 400          7.9% 557          24.9% 
Housing units: Urban 414,720       90.1% 19,177       75.7% 1,929             84.9% -               0.0% 6,628          89.3% 2,020       89.5% 4,690       92.1% 1,682       75.1% 
Housing units: Rural; Farm 1,980           0.4% 146            0.6% -                 0.0% 71                1.9% 54               0.7% 4              0.2% -           0.0% 17            0.8% 
Housing units: Rural; Nonfarm 43,842         9.5% 6,008         23.7% 344                15.1% 3,725           98.1% 737             9.9% 232          10.3% 400          7.9% 540          24.1% 
Housing units: Inside urban clusters 112,047       24.3% 19,177       75.7% 1,929             84.9% -               0.0% 6,628          89.3% 2,020       89.5% 4,690       92.1% 1,682       75.1% 
Population for whom poverty status is determined: I ncome in 1999 
below poverty level 126,154       10.4% 6,085         10.4% 539                7.9% 768              12.1% 2,467          13.3% 790          13.6% 710          7.6% 563          9.0% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation for 
whom poverty status is determined: Income in 1999 b elow poverty 
level 107,320       82.6% 5,381         85.3% 648                68.0% 432              97.3% 2,424          95.9% 1,134       98.3% 301          53.7% 442          66.3% 
Population 16 years and over: Male; In labor force;  Civilian; 
Unemployed 20,326         4.3% 926            4.2% 105                4.0% 58                2.3% 364             5.3% 113          5.0% 145          4.0% 123          5.1% 
Population 16 years and over: Female; In labor forc e; Civilian; 
Unemployed 15,560         3.3% 573            2.6% 37                  1.4% 47                1.9% 205             3.0% 74            3.3% 108          3.0% 74            3.1% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; In labor force; Civilian; Une mployed 3,368           2.6% 122            1.9% 18                  1.9% 1                  0.2% 58               2.3% 26            2.3% 3              0.5% 12            1.8% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; In labor force; Civilian; U nemployed 2,432           1.9% 41              0.7% -                 0.0% 7                  1.6% 18               0.7% 2              0.2% 9              1.6% 5              0.7% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; Not in labor force 12,554         9.7% 564            8.9% 29                  3.0% 36                8.1% 212             8.4% 158          13.7% 70            12.5% 29            4.3% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; Not in labor force 16,663         12.8% 732            11.6% 51                  5.4% 28                6.3% 350             13.8% 126          10.9% 61            10.9% 44            6.6% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation: Per 
capita income in 1999 14,375 $      N/A 13,939 $    N/A 15,276 $        N/A 11,094 $      N/A 13,945 $     N/A 12,773 $  N/A 16,242 $  N/A 14,658 $  N/A 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting; and mining 8,386           1.8% 952            4.3% 104                3.9% 152              6.1% 250             3.7% 172          7.6% 76            2.1% 147          6.2% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting 8,222           1.7% 925            4.2% 99                  3.7% 152              6.1% 235             3.4% 172          7.6% 69            1.9% 147          6.2% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farmers 
and farm managers 2,915           0.6% 287            1.3% 8                    0.3% 85                3.4% 83               1.2% 39            1.7% 27            0.7% 28            1.2% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farming; 
fishing; and forestry occupations 4,766           1.0% 471            2.1% 54                  2.0% 45                1.8% 141             2.1% 81            3.6% 33            0.9% 82            3.4% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; All 
industries except agriculture; forestry; fishing an d hunting; and 
mining; Unpaid family workers 749              0.2% 52              0.2% 5                    0.2% 12                0.5% 18               0.3% 5              0.2% 6              0.2% 6              0.3% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 3 
years and over: Enrolled in college 6,667           5.9% 160            3.0% 20                  6.5% 2                  0.5% 79               3.3% 30            3.7% 11            2.4% 11            3.1% 
Total Population 3 and over enrolled in school (Imp uted + Not 
Imputed) 320,842       26.5% 14,881       25.5% 1,802             26.3% 1,469           23.1% 4,882          26.4% 1,585       27.2% 1,963       24.2% 1,908       30.4% 
Population 25 years and over: Not imputed 747,699       61.7% 35,505       60.7% 4,012             58.5% 3,978           62.7% 11,081        59.8% 3,528       60.6% 5,793       62.2% 3,748       59.7% 
Population 25 years and over: Male; High school gra duate 
(includes equivalency) 113,269       15.1% 5,743         16.2% 738                18.4% 447              11.2% 1,914          17.3% 649          18.4% 845          14.6% 654          17.4% 
Population 25 years and over: Female; High school g raduate 
(includes equivalency) 115,563       15.5% 5,803         16.3% 604                15.1% 524              13.2% 1,895          17.1% 626          17.7% 919          15.9% 586          15.6% Urban Rural 
State Kauai County Lihue North Shore Kapaa Waimea Koloa Ha napepe 
Population Characteristics Housing Characteristics Poverty Characteristics Unemployment Characteristics 
Urban Rural 
Economic Characteristics Educational Characteristics Kapaa Waimea Koloa Hanapepe State Kauai County Lihue North Shore 
SMS, Inc. Appendix C | D Total population: Total 1,211,537    148,677     12.3% 45,160           30.4% 19,180         12.9% 4,181           2.8% 873              0.6% 6,038           4.1% 13,131         8.8% 5,827          3.9% 30,867         20.8% 1,670          1.1% 
Total population: Rural 102,358       8.4% 61,712       41.5% 7,568             16.8% 5,478           28.6% 3,978           95.1% 873              100.0% 2,443           40.5% 5,733           43.7% 5,827          100.0% 23,018         74.6% 1,547          92.6% 
Total population: Urban 1,109,179    91.6% 86,965       58.5% 37,592           83.2% 13,702         71.4% 203              4.9% -               0.0% 3,595           59.5% 7,398           56.3% -              0.0% 7,849           25.4% 123             7.4% 
Total population: Rural; Farm 5,838           5.7% 3,826         6.2% 301                4.0% 492              9.0% 1,019           25.6% 37                4.2% 116              4.7% 215              3.8% 195             3.3% 946              4.1% 84               5.4% 
Total population: Rural; Nonfarm 96,520         94.3% 57,886       93.8% 7,267             96.0% 4,986           91.0% 2,959           74.4% 836              95.8% 2,327           95.3% 5,518           96.2% 5,632          96.7% 22,072         95.9% 1,463          94.6% 
Total population: Urban; Inside urban clusters 272,8 61       22.5% 86,965       58.5% 37,592           83.2% 13,702         71.4% 203              4.9% -               0.0% 3,595           59.5% 7,398           56.3% -              0.0% 7,849           25.4% 123             7.4% 
Total population: Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific  Islander 129,849       10.7% 18,505       12.4% 6,732             14.9% 2,709           14.1% 953              22.8% 198              22.7% 778              12.9% 1,906           14.5% 811             13.9% 3,801           12.3% 617             36.9% 
Total population: Male; 16 years and older 473,542       39.1% 56,763       38.2% 17,078           37.8% 7,386           38.5% 1,652           39.5% 393              45.0% 2,309           38.2% 4,761           36.3% 2,348          40.3% 11,670         37.8% 670             40.1% 
Total population: Female; 16 years and older 476,513       39.3% 57,884       38.9% 18,555           41.1% 7,358           38.4% 1,565           37.4% 336              38.5% 2,403           39.8% 4,947           37.7% 2,169          37.2% 11,268         36.5% 615             36.8% 
Housing units: Total 460,542       N/A 62,674       N/A 17,832           N/A 8,011           N/A 1,747           N/A 337              N/A 1,922           N/A 5,794           N/A 2,883          N/A 12,882         N/A 672             N/A 
Housing units: Rural 45,822         9.9% 26,863       42.9% 2,777             15.6% 2,372           29.6% 1,657           94.8% 337              100.0% 977              50.8% 2,843           49.1% 2,883          100.0% 10,178         79.0% 630             93.8% 
Housing units: Urban 414,720       90.1% 35,811       57.1% 15,055           84.4% 5,639           70.4% 90                5.2% -               0.0% 945              49.2% 2,951           50.9% -              0.0% 2,704           21.0% 42               6.3% 
Housing units: Rural; Farm 1,980           4.3% 1,395         5.2% 123                4.4% 195              8.2% 350              21.1% 7                  2.1% 47                4.8% 66                2.3% 63               2.2% 366              3.6% 37               5.9% 
Housing units: Rural; Nonfarm 43,842         95.7% 25,468       94.8% 2,654             95.6% 2,177           91.8% 1,307           78.9% 330              97.9% 930              95.2% 2,777           97.7% 2,820          97.8% 9,812           96.4% 593             94.1% 
Housing units: Inside urban clusters 112,047       9.2% 35,811       24.1% 15,055           33.3% 5,639           29.4% 90                2.2% -               0.0% 945              15.7% 2,951           22.5% -              0.0% 2,704           8.8% 42               2.5% 
Population for whom poverty status is determined: I ncome in 1999 
below poverty level 126,154       10.4% 22,821       15.3% 7,493             16.6% 1,661           8.7% 657              15.7% 48                5.5% 641              10.6% 1,100           8.4% 1,376          23.6% 7,220           23.4% 108             6.5% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation for 
whom poverty status is determined: Income in 1999 b elow poverty 
level 107,320       82.6% 13,016       70.3% 5,285             78.5% 288              10.6% 936              98.2% 59                29.8% 503              64.7% 1,625           85.3% 528             65.1% 3,439           90.5% 353             57.2% 
Population 16 years and over: Male; In labor force;  Civilian; 
Unemployed 20,326         4.3% 3,073         5.4% 1,172             6.9% 256              3.5% 68                4.1% 24                6.1% 68                2.9% 107              2.2% 215             9.2% 804              6.9% 23               3.4% 
Population 16 years and over: Female; In labor forc e; Civilian; 
Unemployed 15,560         3.3% 2,540         4.4% 798                4.3% 205              2.8% 66                4.2% 5                  1.5% 53                2.2% 121              2.4% 174             8.0% 826              7.3% 38               6.2% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; In labor force; Civilian; Une mployed 3,368           2.6% 548            3.0% 165                2.5% 66                2.4% 8                  0.8% -               0.0% 11                1.4% 22                1.2% 33               4.1% 165              4.3% -              
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; In labor force; Civilian; U nemployed 2,432           1.9% 461            2.5% 167                2.5% 49                1.8% 20                2.1% -               0.0% 10                1.3% 21                1.1% 17               2.1% 99                2.6% 10               1.6% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Male; Not in labor force 12,554         9.7% 1,882         10.2% 679                10.1% 137              5.1% 84                8.8% 7                  3.5% 75                9.6% 179              9.4% 58               7.2% 447              11.8% 19               3.1% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 16 
years and over: Female; Not in labor force 16,663         12.8% 2,307         12.5% 763                11.3% 243              9.0% 99                10.4% 8                  4.0% 80                10.3% 296              15.5% 116             14.3% 463              12.2% 14               2.3% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation: Per 
capita income in 1999 14,375 $      N/A 12,619 $    N/A 11,603 $        N/A 15,678 $      N/A 13,771 $      N/A 22,134 $      N/A 15,563 $      N/A 17,783 $      N/A 11,218 $     N/A 12,484 $      N/A 15,573 $     N/A 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting; and mining 8,386           0.7% 3,134         2.1% 567                1.3% 224              1.2% 251              6.0% 25                2.9% 130              2.2% 195              1.5% 222             3.8% 973              3.2% 51               3.1% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Agriculture; 
forestry; fishing and hunting 8,222           1.7% 3,099         5.5% 535                3.1% 224              3.0% 251              15.2% 25                6.4% 130              5.6% 195              4.1% 222             9.5% 972              8.3% 51               7.6% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farmers 
and farm managers 2,915           0.6% 1,315         2.3% 188                1.1% 75                1.0% 174              10.5% 18                4.6% 32                1.4% 49                1.0% 62               2.6% 464              4.0% 13               1.9% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; Farming; 
fishing; and forestry occupations 4,766           1.0% 1,649         2.9% 322                1.9% 168              2.3% 71                4.3% 7                  1.8% 67                2.9% 110              2.3% 136             5.8% 482              4.1% 39               5.8% 
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Mal e; All 
industries except agriculture; forestry; fishing an d hunting; and 
mining; Unpaid family workers 749              0.1% 149            0.1% 34                  0.1% 58                0.3% 4                  0.1% -               0.0% -               0.0% 4                  0.0% 9                 0.2% 37                0.1% -              0.0% 
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone po pulation 3 
years and over: Enrolled in college 6,667           5.9% 1,083         6.7% 575                12.1% 98                4.3% 34                4.4% -               0.0% 17                3.2% 52                3.2% 8                 1.5% 189              5.4% 19               16.1% 
Total population 3 years and over enrolled in schoo l (Imputed + 
Not Imputed) 320,842       26.5% 40,194       27.0% 13,076           29.0% 4,765           24.8% 1,048           25.1% 160              18.3% 1,596           26.4% 3,437           26.2% 1,431          24.6% 9,181           29.7% 543             32.5% 
Population 25 years and over: Not imputed 747,699       61.7% 90,888       61.1% 27,929           61.8% 11,661         60.8% 2,514           60.1% 620              71.0% 3,671           60.8% 8,059           61.4% 3,634          62.4% 18,114         58.7% 993             59.5% 
Population 25 years and over: Male; High school gra duate 
(includes equivalency) 113,269       15.1% 15,289       16.8% 4,431             15.9% 1,943           16.7% 513              20.4% 92                14.8% 702              19.1% 1,210           15.0% 657             18.1% 3,200           17.7% 175             17.6% 
Population 25 years and over: Female; High school g raduate 
(includes equivalency) 115,563       15.5% 15,364       16.9% 4,678             16.7% 2,076           17.8% 394              15.7% 56                9.0% 749              20.4% 1,315           16.3% 691             19.0% 2,802           15.5% 209             21.0% Urban Rural Urban Rural 
State Hawaii County South Hilo North Kona South Kona North Hilo North Kohala South Kohala Kau Puna Hamakua 
Population Characteristics Housing Characteristics Poverty Characteristics Unemployment Charactertistics 
Urban Rural Urban Rural 
South Kohala State Hawaii County South Hilo North Kona 
Educational Characteristics Kau Puna Hamakua 
Economic Characteristics South Kona North Hilo North Kohala 
SMS, Inc. Appendix C | D Total population: Total 1,211,537   876,156    72.3% 414,153         34.2% 49,315         5.6% 150,362       17.2% 85,530         9.8% 14,546        1.7% 113,511      13.0% 18,380        2.1% 36,698        4.2%
Total population: Rural 102,358      8.4% 13,658      1.6% 3,093             0.7% -              0.0% 2,516           1.7% 2,134           2.5% 1,584          10.9% 1,372          1.2% 1,348          7.3% 2,144          5.8%
Total population: Urban 1,109,179   91.6% 862,498    98.4% 411,060         99.3% 49,315         100.0% 147,846       98.3% 83,396         97.5% 12,962        89.1% 112,139      98.8% 17,032        92.7% 34,554        94.2%
Total population: Rural; Farm 5,838           0.5% 406           0.0% -                 0.0% -              0.0% -              0.0% -              0.0% 139             1.0% 220             0.2% 47               0.3% -              0.0%
Total population: Rural; Nonfarm 96,520        8.0% 13,252      1.5% 3,093             0.7% -              0.0% 2,516           1.7% 2,134           2.5% 1,445          9.9% 1,152          1.0% 1,301          7.1% 2,144          5.8%
Total population: Urban; Inside urban clusters 272,861      22.5% 26,180      3.0% -                 0.0% -              0.0% -              0.0% -              0.0% 11,624        79.9% -              0.0% 14,556        79.2% -              0.0%
Total population: Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone 129,849       10.7% 88,029      8.8% 34,584           8.4% 2,661           5.4% 11,620         7.7% 6,021           7.0% 3,900          26.8% 15,449        13.6% 2,206          12.0% 11,588        31.6%
Total population: Male; 16 years and older 473,542      39.1% 344,979    39.4% 169,388         40.9% 19,811         40.2% 112,405       74.8% 59,346         69.4% 10,412        71.6% 88,475        77.9% 14,218        77.4% 25,621        69.8%
Total population: Female; 16 years and older 476,513      39.3% 346,036    39.5% 172,533         41.7% 20,731         42.0% 55,031         36.6% 31,126         36.4% 5,351          36.8% 43,385        38.2% 6,723          36.6% 13,205        36.0%
Housing units: Total 460,542      38.0% 315,988    36.1% 169,488         40.9% 18,323         37.2% 46,459         30.9% 25,129         29.4% 4,473          30.8% 35,300        31.1% 6,648          36.2% 10,935        29.8%
Housing units: Rural 45,822        9.9% 4,403        1.4% 1,013             0.6% -              0.0% 824              1.8% 871              3.5% 391             8.7% 415             1.2% 410             6.2% 645             5.9%
Housing units: Urban 414,720      90.1% 311,585    98.6% 168,475         99.4% 18,323         100.0% 45,635         98.2% 24,258         96.5% 4,082          91.3% 34,885        98.8% 6,238          93.8% 10,290        94.1%
Housing units: Rural; Farm 1,980           0.4% 102           0.0% -                 0.0% -              0.0% -              0.0% -              0.0% 32               0.7% 54               0.2% 16               0.2% -              0.0%
Housing units: Rural; Nonfarm 43,842        9.5% 4,301        1.4% 1,013             0.6% -              0.0% 824              1.8% 871              3.5% 359             8.0% 361             1.0% 394             5.9% 645             5.9%
Housing units: Inside urban clusters 112,047      24.3% 8,912        2.8% -                 0.0% -              0.0% -              0.0% -              0.0% 3,525          78.8% -              0.0% 5,387          81.0% -              0.0%
Population for whom poverty status is determined: Income in 1999 
below poverty level126,154      10.4% 83,937      9.6% 45,657           11.0% 1,843           3.7% 11,601         7.7% 6,551           7.7% 2,389          16.4% 6,253          5.5% 2,426          13.2% 7,987          21.8%
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone population for whom poverty status is determined: Income in 1999 below poverty level107,320      82.6% 75,431      85.7% 28,549           82.5% 1,914           71.9% 10,125         87.1% 4,942           82.1% 3,473          89.1% 13,060        84.5% 1,865          84.5% 11,503        99.3%
Population 16 years and over: Male; In labor force; Civilian; Unemployed20,326        1.7% 14,418      1.6% 7,043             1.7% 489              1.0% 2,304           1.5% 1,310           1.5% 309             2.1% 1,627          1.4% 301             1.6% 1,206          3.3%
Population 16 years and over: Female; In labor force; Civilian; Unemployed15,560        1.3% 11,072      1.3% 4,954             1.2% 333              0.7% 1,898           1.3% 1,082           1.3% 230             1.6% 1,361          1.2% 261             1.4% 1,069          2.9%
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone population 16 years and over: Male; In labor force; Civilian; Unemployed3,368           2.6% 2,336        2.7% 943                2.7% 52                2.0% 298              2.6% 154              2.6% 146             3.7% 317             2.1% 46               2.1% 394             3.4%
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone population 16 years and over: Female; In labor force; Civilian; Unemployed2,432           1.9% 1,612        1.8% 507                1.5% 32                1.2% 293              2.5% 210              3.5% 72               1.8% 183             1.2% 24               1.1% 375             3.2%
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone population 16 years and over: Male; Not in labor force12,554        9.7% 8,705        9.9% 3,535             10.2% 237              8.9% 930              8.0% 765              12.7% 514             13.2% 1,421          9.2% 125             5.7% 1,137          9.8%
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone population 16 years and over: Female; Not in labor force16,663        12.8% 11,836      13.4% 4,903             14.2% 348              13.1% 1,442           12.4% 1,074           17.8% 712             18.3% 1,691          10.9% 156             7.1% 1,565          13.5%
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone population: Per capita income in 199914,375$      N/A 14,748 $   N/A 19,274 $        N/A 24,139 $      N/A 16,384 $      N/A 14,098 $      N/A 12,694 $     N/A 18,110 $     N/A 12,495 $     N/A 11,367 $     N/A
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Male; Agriculture; forestry; fishing and hunting; and mining8,386           0.7% 2,781        0.3% 887                0.2% 94                0.2% 616              0.4% 277              0.3% 156             1.1% 431             0.4% 243             1.3% 230             0.6%
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Male; Agriculture; forestry; fishing and hunting8,222           0.7% 2,685        0.3% 828                0.2% 94                0.2% 613              0.4% 268              0.3% 156             1.1% 414             0.4% 243             1.3% 230             0.6%
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Male; Farmers and farm managers2,915           0.2% 791           0.1% 253                0.1% 5                  0.0% 87                0.1% 28                0.0% 75               0.5% 173             0.2% 80               0.4% 82               0.2%
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Male; Farming; fishing; and forestry occupations4,766           0.4% 1,763        0.2% 583                0.1% 75                0.2% 459              0.3% 155              0.2% 76               0.5% 248             0.2% 131             0.7% 121             0.3%
Employed civilian population 16 years and over: Male; All industries except agriculture; forestry; fishing and hunting; and mining; Unpaid family workers749              0.1% 444           0.1% 219                0.1% 30                0.1% 24                0.0% 30                0.0% 6                 0.0% 108             0.1% 13               0.1% 23               0.1%
Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone population 3 years and over: Enrolled in college6,667           0.6% 4,916        0.6% 2,335             0.6% 151              0.3% 406              0.3% 330              0.4% 371             2.6% 820             0.7% 102             0.6% 325             0.9%
Total population 3 years and over enrolled in school (Imputed + Not Imputed)320,842      26.5% 234,038    26.7% 102,600         24.8% 12,016         24.4% 42,598         28.3% 25,363         29.7% 5,467          37.6% 31,425        27.7% 4,525          24.6% 11,394        31.0%
Population 25 years and over: Not imputed 747,699      61.7% 542,237    61.9% 271,221         65.5% 34,951         70.9% 85,247         56.7% 48,532         56.7% 7,304          50.2% 68,413        60.3% 10,615        57.8% 18,692        50.9%
Population 25 years and over: Male; High school graduate (includes equivalency)113,269      15.1% 79,480      14.7% 39,422           14.5% 2,993           8.6% 12,884         15.1% 7,386           15.2% 1,069          14.6% 10,356        15.1% 1,854          17.5% 4,447          23.8%
Population 25 years and over: Female; High school graduate (includes equivalency)115,563      15.5% 81,868      15.1% 40,842           15.1% 3,961           11.3% 12,295         14.4% 7,548           15.6% 991             13.6% 10,553        15.4% 1,465          13.8% 4,774          25.5%Urban Rural
State Honolulu County Primary Urban Core East Honolulu Central Oahu Ewa Ko’olauloa Ko’olaupoko North Shore Waianae
Population Characteristics
Housing Characteristics
Poverty Characteristics
Unemployment Charactertistics
Urban Rural
State Honolulu County Primary Urban Core East Honolulu
Educational CharacteristicsNorth Shore Waianae
Economic CharacteristicsCentral Oahu Ewa Ko’olauloa Ko’olaupoko
SMS, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A p pendix C | D

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/OP_TAM_2013-12-03.pdf) ---
TAM‐201 3‐1: Priority guidelines and principles to promote sustainability  Page 1 
 STATE OF HAWAII OFFICE OF PLANNING  
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  MEMORANDUM  
 
 
TAM – 2013 – 1 ISSUED:  12-03-2013  
 
AUTHORITIES : State Planning, HRS Chapter 225M; Hawaii State  Planning Act, HRS 
Chapter 226 ; Hawaii Land Use Law, HRS Chapter 205  
 
SUBJECT:  Priority guidelines and principles to promote sustainability   
 
 
The Office of Planning provide s technical assistance to state and county agencies in 
administering the statewide planning system .1  This technical advisory discusses a “priority 
guideline.”  P riority guidelines provide guidelines for decision -making by the State and the 
counties for the immediate future and set priorities for the allocation of resources.2  State 
func tional plans , county general plans and development plans , and state programs  (including 
state budgetary, land use, and other decision -making  processes ) must consider priority 
guidelines .3 
 
Pursuant to Act 181, Session Laws of Hawaii 2011, the Hawaii State Plan ning Act  
provides the policy framework establishing sustainability as a state priority to ensure a 
coordinated and coherent approach to fulfilling the long -range vision for a sustainable Hawaii.    
 
Under the Act, Sustainability is defined as follows:  
 
(1) Respect of the culture, character, beauty, and history of the State’s island 
communities;  
(2) Striking a balance between economic, social, community, and environmental 
priorities; and  
(3) Meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future 
generations to meet their own needs.4  
 
The priority guideline for sustainability is as follows:  
 
                                                           
1 HRS §§ 225M -2(b), 226-53(10).  
2 HRS §226 -52. 
3 Id. 
4 HRS § 226 -2. TAM‐201 3‐1: Priority guidelines and principles to promote sustainability  Page 2 
 Sustainability .  Priority guidelines and principles to promote sustainability shall 
include:  
 
(1)  Encouraging balanced economic, social, community, and environmental 
priorities;  
(2)  Encouraging planning that respects and promotes living within the natural 
resources and limits of the State;  
(3)  Promoting a diversified and dynamic economy;  
(4)  Encouraging respect for the host culture;  
(5)  Promoting deci sions based on meeting the needs of the present without 
compromising the needs of future generations;  
(6)  Considering the principles of the ahupuaa system; and  
(7)  Emphasizing that everyone, including individuals, families, communities, 
businesses, and government, has the responsibility for achieving a 
sustainable Hawaii.5 
 
To address the principles and priority guidelines for sustainability, the Office of Planning 
recommends that decision -makers  consider a sustainability plan or relevant elements thereo f 
as part of program and plan development .  In state and county land use approval s, a 
sustainability plan or relevant elements thereof should be included as part of the applicant’s 
submission for approval (e.g., in environmental assessments or in petition s for district boundary 
amendment to the State Land Use Commission  submitted pursuant to HRS Chapter 205 ).  This 
will help ensure that sustainability considerations are incorporated early in planning process for 
programs and land use developments subject to  approval.   
 
A sustainability plan should address the following areas as applicable:  
 
A. Sustainable Development  
 
The applicant and the approving agency should consider t he project’s c ontribution to 
creating a high quality of life and a mutually supportive b alance among environmental, 
economic, and social equity concerns , as enumerated in HRS § 226 -108.  Existing r egulatory 
criteria frequently include  these element s, which can be referenced in a section specifically 
addressing Act 181 .6 
 
B. Smart Growth and Livability Principles  
 
Development decisions touch people's everyday lives, including their homes, their health, 
the schools their children attend, the taxes they pay, their daily commute, the natural 
                                                           
5 HRS § 226-108. 
6 See, e.g., HRS § 205-17, Land use commission decision -making criteria; HRS §205A -26, Special management area 
guidelines.  TAM‐201 3‐1: Priority guidelines and principles to promote sustainability  Page 3 
 environment around them, and economic growth in their community .  Land use -related 
activities should at least consider the following based on Smart Growth and Livability Principles :    
 
1. Provide more transportation choices .  Develop safe, reliable, and economical 
transportation choices to decrease household transportation costs, reduce Hawaii’s  
dependence on foreign oil, improve air quality, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, 
and promote public health.7 
 
2. Promote equitable, affor dable housing .  Expand location - and energy -efficient 
housing choices for people of all ages, incomes, races, and ethnicities to increase 
mobility and lower the combined cost of housing and transportation.8 
 
3. Enhance economic competitiveness .  Improve econo mic competitiveness through 
reliable and timely access to employment centers, educational opportunities, 
services and other basic needs by workers, as well as expanded business access to 
markets.9 
 
4. Support existing communities .  Target infrastructure inves tment  toward existing 
communities ( through strategies like transit oriented  and mixed -use development) 
to increase community revitalization and the efficiency of public works 
investments .10 
 
5. Coordinate and leverage State, County, and Federal  policies and in vestment .  Align 
state, county, and federal policies and funding to remove barriers to collaboration, 
leverage funding, and increase the accountability and effectiveness of all levels of 
government to plan for future growth, including making smart energy c hoices such 
as locally generated renewable energy .11 
 
                                                           
7 HRS §§ 226-17, 226-18. 
8 HRS § 226-106. 
9 See Leveraging State Agency Involvement in Transit -Oriented Development to Strengthen Hawaii’s Economy , 
Office of Planning, Dec.  12, 2012 , available at http://planning.hawaii.gov/wp -content/uploads/2013/04/HI -State -
TOD -Strategies -Final -Report -FINAL.pdf.  
10 See Transit -Oriented Develop ment (TOD) , Office of Planning, (Sept. 9, 2013, 8:00 AM), 
http://planning.hawaii.gov/s pb/transit -oriented -development.  
11 See Transportation , Hawaii Clean Energy Initiative, (Sept. 9, 2013, 10:00 AM), 
http://www.hawaiicleanener gyinitiative.org/transportati on. TAM‐201 3‐1: Priority guidelines and principles to promote sustainability  Page 4 
 6. Value communities and neighborhoods .  Enhance the unique characteristics of all 
communities by investing in healthy, safe, and walkable neighborhoods .12   
 
7. Compact Building Design.   Design communities to preserve more open space with 
compact building designs that make efficient use of land and resources.  
 
8. Preserve open space, farmland, natural beauty, and critical environmental areas .  
Preserve natural areas that provide important c ommunity space, habitat for palnts 
and animals, recreational opp ortunities, places of natural b eauty, and critical 
environmental areas .  Protect farm and agricultural lands and promote locally grown 
foods.13 
 
9. Promote c ommunity and stakeholder collaboration in development decisions .  
Promote an inclusionary process with a common understanding among diverse 
stakeholders  using effective communication techniques.  
 
10. Preserve and perpetuate our island cultural values.   Consider the ahupuaa 
management concept to integrate resource management decisions from the 
mountains to the sea.14 
C. Resource Conservation  
 
1. Energy Efficiency – incorporate energy efficiency measures in the design, construction, 
and operation of project/site, infrastructure, and buildings, and use ren ewable energy 
generation.  
 
2. Water Efficiency  – incorporate water efficiency measures in the design, construction, 
and operation of project/site, infrastructure, and buildings, including irrigation and 
landscaping, and use of non -potable water.  
 
3. Waste Management – implement solid and liquid waste management, recycling, and 
reuse.  
 
                                                           
12 See, e.g., Hawai‘i Physical Activity and Nutrition Plan 2013 -2020 , Haw. Dep’t of Health (2013), available at  
http://hawaii.gov/health/family -child -health/chronic -disease/pdf/panplan.pdf  (includes State health policies 
related to Community Design and Access ). 
13 See, e.g., Increased Food Security and Food Self -Sufficiency Strategy,  Office of Planning, October 2012, available 
at  h ttp:// planning.hawaii.gov/spb.  
14 HRS §226 -2:  “Ahupuaa” means a traditional native Hawaiian resource and behavioral managemen t system that 
ensures respect for the air, land, water and other scarce natural resources that make life sustainable from the 
mountains to the sea.  TAM‐201 3‐1: Priority guidelines and principles to promote sustainability  Page 5 
 4. Low Impact Development  – incorporate site design, green infrastructure, and structural 
best management practices to increase on -site infiltration and reduce off -site flo ws and 
pollution from stormwater runoff.15   
 
5. Climate Change  and Hazard Mitigation  – provide mitigation and adaptation strategies  
to address the potential risks from natural or man -made hazards, including new or 
intensified hazards resulting from climate ch ange.  These include sea -level rise, 
hurricanes, tsunamis, drought, wildfires, storm flooding, and coastal erosion.16 
 
D. Green Building Standards  
 
Hawaii’s overall goal for energy efficiency is to meet the Energy Efficiency Portfolio 
standard of 30% by reducing electricity demands by 2030.   The Hawaii State Energy Office of 
the Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, has several 
recommendations and programs related to achieving building efficiency on its Web page 
entitled, Lead by Examp le for Government Agencies , at http://energy.hawaii.gov/lead -by-
example . 
 
The use and pursuit of green building standards such as U.S. Green Building Council’s 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental De sign (LEED) or similar are encouraged in 
attaining sustainable community and building designs.  
 
 
 
 
Office of Planning   Phone:  (808) 587 -2846  
State of Hawaii   Web:  planning.hawaii.gov  
P.O. Box 2359  
Honolulu, HI  96804  
 
 
 
Note :  A Technical Assistance Memo randum (TAM) is an informational statement of the law, 
regulations, or Office of Planning policies.  It is accurate on the date issued.  Subsequent changes in the 
law or regulations, judicial decisions , or changes in Office of Planning policies could affect the validity of 
the information presented in a TAM.  
 
                                                           
15 See Low Impact Development a Practitioner’s Guide , Haw. CZM Program, June 2006, at 
http://planning.hawaii. gov/czm/initiatives/low -impact -development.  
16 See Adapting to Climate Change , Office of Planning, (Sept. 9, 2013, 8:00 AM), 
http://planning.hawaii.gov/czm/initiativ es/adapting -to-climate -change -2.

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/TAM-FAA-DOT-Airports_08-01-2016.pdf) ---
STATE OF HAWAI ʻI OFFICE OF PLANNING  
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MEMORANDUM  
 
 
TAM‐2013‐1: Priority guidelines and principles to promote sustainability  Page 1  
   
TAM – 2016  – 1  
  ISSUED:  08-01-2016   
AUTHORITIES:  
  State Planning, H awaii  Revised  Statutes (HRS)  Chapter 225M; Hawaii State 
Planning Act, HRS Chapter 226; Hawaii Land Use Law, HRS Chapter 205 ; 
Aeronautics, HRS Chapter 261; Airport Zoning Act , HRS Chapter 262  
  
SUBJECT:  Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Order 5190.6 B   
  
 
  
The Office of Planning provides technical assistance to state and county agencies in 
administering the statewide planning system.1  This technical advisory discusses a n FAA Order 
which may impact the use of land adjacent to or in the immediate vicinity of Hawaii’s airpo rts.   
  
Background  
 
Pursuant to FAA Order 5190.6 B2: 
 
“20.1 . Background .  Land use planning is an important tool in ensuring that land 
adjacent to, or in the immediate vicinity of, the airport is consistent with activities and 
purposes compatible with norm al airport operations, including aircraft land ing and 
takeoff.  Ensuring compatible land use near federally obligated airports is an important  
responsibility and an issue of federal interest.  In effect since 1964, Grant Assurance 21, 
Compatible Land Use, implementing Title 49 United States Code (U.S.C.) § 47107(a)(10), 
requires, in part, that the sponsor: ” 
 
“…take appropriate action, to the extent reasonable, including the adoption of zoning 
laws, to restrict the use of land adjacent to or in the immediate  vicinity of the airport to 
activities and purposes compatible with normal airport operations, including land ing 
and takeoff of aircraft.  In addition, if the project is for noise compatibility program 
implementation, it will not cause or permit any change  in land use, within its 
jurisdiction, that will reduce its compatibility, with respect to the airport, of the noise 
compatibility program measures upon which federal funds have been expended.”  
 
There are a number of sources that can assist an airport spon sor in dealing with 
noise, obstructions, and other incompatible land uses.  These include, but are not 
limited to:  
                                                      
1 HRS §§ 225M -2(b), 226 -53(10).  
2 https://www.faa.gov/airports/resources/publications/orders/compliance_5190_6/media/5190_6b_chap20.pdf   
 
TAM‐2016‐1: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Order 5190.6 B   Page 2  a. Hazardous Wildlife Attractants on or Near Airports, AC 150/5200 -33B, August 28, 
2007.3 
b. Construction or Establishment of Landfills near Public  Airports, AC 150/5200 -
34A, January 26, 2006 . 
c. Federal and State Coordination of Environmental Reviews for Airport 
Improvement Projects. (RTF format) – Joint Review by Federal Aviation 
Administration and National Association of State Aviation Officials (NAS AO), 
issued March 2002.4 
d. Land Use Compatibility and Airports, a Guide for Effective Land Use Planning 
(PDF format), issued by the FAA Office of Environment and Energy.5 
e. Compatible Land Use Planning Initiative (PDF format), 63 Fed. Reg. 27876, May 
21, 1998.6 
f. A Model Zoning Ordinance to Limit Height of Objects Around Airports, Advisory Circular  
(AC) 150/5190 -4A. 
g. Glint/Glare Hazards , Airport  Airspace Analysis (iOE/AAA), Combined Federal Regulation 
CFR Part 77 (e -CFR format) – Current as of December 15,  2015 (same as obstruction 
process below) .   
h. Obstruction Evaluation/Airport Airspace Analysis (iOE/AAA), Combined Federal 
Regulation CFR Part 77  (e-CFR format) – Current as of December 15,  2015 . 
i. Avigation and Noise Easements – Permitting agencies shall ensure that  all 
permits issued to projects near airports are compatible with avigation easement 
agreements between the State of Hawaii Department of Transportation, Airports 
Division (DOT -A) and property owners.  These easements grant the DOT -A the 
right of flight of  aircrafts, the safe operations of airports, and acceptance of 
certain noise levels and other phenomena associated with the airport.  The right 
to flight includes the prevention of wildlife hazard through appropriate 
mitigation and monitoring.  In all land -use zone changes, this easement is 
required and must satisfy DOT -A requirements.  
  
  
                                                      
3 http://www.faa.gov/documentLibrary/media/advisory_circular/150 -5200 -33B/150_5200_33b.pdf  
4 https://www.faa.gov/airports/resources/publications/reports/environmental/media/eis -faa-nasao -report.pdf  
5 http://www.faa.gov/about/office_org/headquarters_offices/apl/noise_emissions/planning_toolkit/media/  
III.B.pdf  
6 https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR -1998-05-21/pdf/98 -13577.pdf   
 
TAM‐2016‐1: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Order 5190.6 B   Page 3  Pertinent Information from FAA’s Land -Use Practices on or near Airports That 
Potentially Attract Hazardous Wildlife, Glint/Glare Hazards and Obstruction Hazards : 
 
2-1. General.  The wildlife attracted to the airport environment vary considerably, 
depending on several factors, including land -use practices on or near the airport .  Other 
hazards that attract wildlife include glint/glare hazards , certain street and property 
lighting designs,  and aerial obstruction  hazards , all of which threaten aviation safety.  In 
addition to the specific considerations outlined below, airport operators should refer to 
Wildlife Hazard  Management at Airports, Glint/Glare , and Obstruction  guid ance 
materials prepared by the FAA.   
 
Pertinent Information from FAA Order 5190.6B Compatible Land Use and Airspace Protection : 
 
4-3. Other  Land -Use Practice Changes.  As a matter of policy, the FAA encourages 
operators of public -use airports who become aware of proposed land use practice 
changes that may attract hazardous wildlife within 5 statute miles of their airports , to 
include glint/gl are hazards and aerial obstructions to promptly notify the FAA.  The FAA 
also encourages proponents of such land use changes to notify the FAA as early in the 
planning process as possible.  Advanced notice affords the FAA an opportunity (1) to 
evaluate the  effect of a particular land -use change on aviation safety and (2) to support 
efforts by the airport sponsor to restrict the use of land next to or near the airport to 
uses that are compatible with the airport.  
 
Land use practices that may attract hazardou s wildlife , and may also be a glint/glare 
hazard  or an aerial obstruction hazard to existing flight paths include, but are not limited 
to: 
 
 Underwater waste discharges  
 Aquaculture activities conducted outside of fully enclosed buildings  
 Water features on properties such as fountains  or ponds , areas of permanent or 
temporary standing water, and furrow irrigation and drainage systems  
 Landfills and material recycling/processing facilities  
 Photovoltaic/Solar panels  
 Utility poles and lines  
 Wind turbines  
 Antenn a towers  
 High rise building structures  
 Cranes  
 Tethered Air Balloon Devices  
 Street and exterior property lights  
 Certain landscape, trees, and ground cover  
  
 
TAM‐2016‐1: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Order 5190.6 B   Page 4  4-3.a.  Airports that have received Federal grant -in-aid assistance are required by their 
grant assurances to take appropriate actions to restrict the use of land next to or near 
the airport to uses that are compatible with normal airport operations.   The FAA 
recommends that airport operators to the extent practicable oppose off -airport land -
use changes or practices within the separations identified in Sections 1 -2 through 1 -4 
that may attract hazardous wildlife , and/or be glint/glare , and/or obstruction hazards .  
Failure to do so may lead to noncompliance with applicable grant assurances.   The FAA 
will not approve the placement of airport development projects pertaining to aircraft 
movement in the vicinity of hazardous wildlife attractants , or where glint/glare and /or 
obstruction hazards  exist  without appropriate mitigating measures. Increasing the 
intensity of wildlife control efforts is not a substitute for eliminating or reducing a 
proposed wildlife hazard , nor is the placement adjustments to mitigate glint/glare and 
obstruction  hazard s. Airport operators should identify hazardous wildlife , glint/glare , 
and obstruction hazards  during any planning process for new airport development 
projects.  
 
Pertinent Information from FAA 14 C ode of Federal Regulation Part  77 Safe, Efficient 
Use and Preservation of the Navigable Airspace : 
 
7460 -1 Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration – Requirement to file  §77.9  
Construction or alteration requiring notice.  
 
If requested by the FAA, or if you propose any of the followin g types of construction or 
alteration, you must file notice with the FAA of:  
(a) Any construction or alteration that is more than 200 ft. above ground level ( AGL) at 
its site.  
(b) Any construction or alteration that exceeds an imaginary surface extending outward 
and upward at any of the following slopes:  
(1) 100 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 20,000 ft. from the nearest point of the 
nearest runway of each airport described in paragraph (d) of this section with its 
longest runway more than 3,200 ft. in actual length,  excluding heliports.  
(2) 50 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 10,000 ft. from the nearest point of the 
nearest runway of each airport described in paragraph (d) of this section with its 
longest runway no more than 3,200 ft. in actual length, excluding helipor ts. 
(3) 25 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 5,000 ft. from the nearest point of the 
nearest landing and takeoff area of each heliport described in paragraph (d) of 
this section.  
(c) Any highway, railroad, or other traverse way for mobile objects, of a height whic h, if 
adjusted upward 17 feet for an Interstate Highway that is part of the National 
System of Military and Interstate Highways where overcrossings are designed for a 
minimum of 17 feet vertical distance, 15 feet for any other public roadway, 10 feet 
or th e height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse the road, 
whichever is greater, for a private road, 23 feet for a railroad, and for a waterway or 
any other traverse way not previously mentioned, an amount equal to the height of  
 
TAM‐2016‐1: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Order 5190.6 B   Page 5  the highe st mobile object that would normally traverse it, would exceed a standard 
of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.  
 
NOTE  
(a) You must submit this form at least 45 days before the start date of the proposed 
construction or alteration or the date an application for a construction permit is filed, 
whichever is earlies t. 
(b) If you propose construction or alteration that is also subject to the licensing requirements 
of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC),  you must submit notice to the FAA on or 
before the date that the application is filed with the FCC.  
(c) If you propose construction or alteration to an existing structure that exceeds 2,000 ft. in 
height above ground level (AGL), the FAA presumes it to be a hazard to air navigation that 
results in a n inefficient use of airspace.  You must include details explaining both why the 
proposal would not constitute a hazard to air navigation and why it would not cause an 
inefficient use of airspace.  
(d) The 45 -day advance notice requirement is waived if immediate  construction or alteration is 
required because of an emergency involving essential public services, public health, or 
public safety. You may provide notice to the FAA by any available, expeditious means.  You 
must file a completed FAA Form 7460 –1 within 5 days of the initial notice to the FAA.  
Outside normal business hours, the nearest flight service station will  accept emergency 
notices . 
(e) There is a Notice Criteria Tool on  
https://oeaaa.faa.gov/oeaaa/external/gisTools/gisAction.jsp?action=showNoNoticeRequire
dToolForm  on the left margin of the webpage.   It is free and will help to determine if 
proposed structures need to filed for aeronautical revi ew. 
 
Photovoltaic and Solar Farms concerns about hazards to safe air navigation from:  
 
1. Potential glare and glint caused by parabolic troughs and heliostats that might cause 
temporary loss of vision to pilots on arrival or departure, or to Air Traffic Cont rol 
personnel in the control tower.  
2. Electr omagnetic interference with on -and off -airport radar systems that may pick up 
a false signal from the metal components of the mirrors with impacts that can vary 
based on solar tracking activity.  
3. Physical penetrat ions of navigable airspace from power towers that extend into Part 
77 imaginary surfaces, terminal instrument procedures (TERPS) surfaces, or the path 
of radio emitting navigational aids.  
4. Thermal plumes emitted by the power tower that produce unexpected up ward 
moving air columns into navigable air space.  
5. Use your discretion to evaluate the proposed footprint to be developed.   If the 
footprint is approaching 1 acre, have the proponent submit a 7460 -1.  If its within 3 
nautical miles of an airport, have them  submit a 7460 -1. 
 
   
 
TAM‐2016‐1: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Order 5190.6 B   Page 6  Wind Farms concerns about hazards to safe air navigation from:  
 
1. Create false targets and impacts FAA long radar capabilities.  
2. Height of structures and propellers.  
3. Any wind farm proposal needs to have the proponent submit a 7460 -1. 
 
Application  
 
The State of Hawai ʻi Department of Transportation, Airports Division (DOT -A) 
discourages such land uses that may attract hazardous wildlife within five (5) statute 
miles of airport boundaries, pursuant to FAA Advisory  Circular 150/5200 -33B,  (August 
28, 2007 ).  Attached are maps depicting the five (5) statute miles from airports in the 
State of Hawai ʻi, including glint/glare hazards pursuant to Federal Aviation 
Administration  Notice of Interim Policy  dated October 23, 2013  and aerial obstructio n to 
existing flight paths  pursuant to Combined Federal Regulation CFR Part 77 (e -CFR 
format) – Current as of December 15,2015.  
 
State, county, and federal agencies who have jurisdiction over areas within five (5) 
statute miles of airport boundaries and ha ve permit authority over future land uses that 
may attract hazardous wildlife  shall consider FAA Advisory Circular 150/5200 -33B, 
including glint/glare hazards and aerial obstruction(s) to existing flight paths in 
accordance with the FAA Obstruction Evaluat ion/Airport Airspace Analysis (iOE/AAA), 
Combined Federal Regulation CFR Part 77 in their decision making on plans and permits ,  
 
Consultation with the DOT -A (Airport Operations ) shall be performed at the earliest 
time where  a future land use that may attr act hazardous wildlife , glint/glare hazard  or 
aerial obstruction(s) is proposed.   Agencies should inform applicants of permits or 
approvals of such proposed land uses to consult with the DOT -A (Airport Operations ) as 
soon as possible , pursuant to the Airport Zoning Act HRS Chapter 262 .  
 
Where applicable, when a land -owner petitions the State of Hawaii Land Use 
Commission (LUC) with a request for a land use district boundary amendment, the State 
will propose an LUC condition requiring an avigation and noise easement be granted to 
DOT -A and the terms of the easement must meet the requirements of the DOT -A, 
including mitigation to minimize potential wildlife hazards to aircrafts and airport 
operations.  
 
In cases where the respective counties are the autho rity for land use district boundary 
amendments (petitions under fifteen (15) acres), the respective counties should contact 
DOT -A for any requirements of an avigation and noise easement.  
 
   
 
TAM‐2016‐1: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Order 5190.6 B   Page 7  When a landowner in the vicinity of the airport pursues redevelopmen t of a property, 
the landowner must grant an avigation and noise easement to the DOT -A to ensure 
compatible land use in the vicinity of the airport.  The terms of the easement must 
satisfy DOT -A requirements.  
 
Grant of avigation and noise easements to DOT -A is necessary for the safety of air 
transportation which is a public benefit.  State, County, and Federal regulatory and 
service agencies that work  with any aspect of the conditions identified  in an avigation 
and noise easement must take appropriate actio ns and incorporate the DOT -A avigation 
easement requirements in their decisions.  
 
 
Office of Planning  Phone:  (808) 587 -2846  
State of Hawai ʻi Web:  planning.hawaii.gov  
P.O. Box 2359  
Honolulu, HI  96804  
 
Department of Transportation  Phone:  (808) 838-8810  
Airports Division  
State of Hawai ʻi      
400 Rodgers Boulevard, Suite 700  
Honolulu, HI  968 19-1880  
 
 
  
Note :  A Technical Assistance Memorandum (TAM) is an informational statement of the law, 
regulations, or policies.  It is accurate on the date issued.  Subsequent changes in the law or regulations, 
judicial decisions, or changes in policies could affect the va lidity of the information presented in a TAM.  H o n o lu lu
I n t e r n a t io n a l
A ir p o r t
H ilo
I n t e r n a t io n a l
A ir p o r tK o n a  I n t e r n a t io n a l
A ir p o r t  a t
K e a h o leK a h u lu i A ir p o r tD illin g h a m
A ir f ie ld
H a n a
A ir p o r tK a p a lu a
A ir p o r t
L a n a i
A ir p o r tL ih u e
A ir p o r t
K a la u p a p a
A ir p o r t
M o lo k a i A ir p o r t
U p o lu
A ir p o r tP o r t
A lle n
A ir p o r t
K a la e lo a
A ir p o r t
W a im e a - K o h a la
A ir p o r tK a u a iN i i h a uO a h u
M o l o k a i
L a n a i
K a h o o l a w eM a u i
H a w a i i
0 5 0 1 0 0 2 5 M i l e s
T h is  m a p  w a s  p r o d u c e d  b y  t h e  O f f ic e  o f
P la n n in g  ( O P )  f o r  p la n n in g  p u r p o s e s .
I t  s h o u ld  n o t  b e  u s e d  f o r  b o u n d a r y  in t e r -
p r e t a t io n s  o r  o t h e r  s p a t ia l a n a ly s is  b e y o n d
t h e  lim it a t io n s  o f  t h e  d a t a .  I n f o r m a t io n
r e g a r d in g  c o m p ila t io n  d a t e s  a n d  a c c u r a c y  o f
t h e  d a t a  p r e s e n t e d  c a n  b e  o b t a in e d  f r o m  O P .
M a p  N o .:  2 0 1 5 1 0 1 4 - 0 1 - D K
M a p  D a t e :  1 0 / 1 4 / 1 5
S o u r c e s :
D O T  A ir p o r t s :  S t a t e  o f  H a w a ii, D O T , 2 0 1 4 .S t a t e  o f  H a w a ii
5  S t a t u t e  M ile  B u f f e r  A r o u n d  A ir p o r t
S t a t e  D O T  A ir p o r t sL ih u e  A ir p o r t
P o r t  A lle n
A ir p o r tK a u a i C o u n t y
5  S t a t u t e  M ile  B u f f e r  A r o u n d  A ir p o r t
S t a t e  D O T  A ir p o r t s
T h is  m a p  w a s  p r o d u c e d  b y  t h e  O f f ic e  o f
P la n n in g  ( O P )  f o r  p la n n in g  p u r p o s e s .
I t  s h o u ld  n o t  b e  u s e d  f o r  b o u n d a r y  in t e r -
p r e t a t io n s  o r  o t h e r  s p a t ia l a n a ly s is  b e y o n d
t h e  lim it a t io n s  o f  t h e  d a t a .  I n f o r m a t io n
r e g a r d in g  c o m p ila t io n  d a t e s  a n d  a c c u r a c y  o f
t h e  d a t a  p r e s e n t e d  c a n  b e  o b t a in e d  f r o m  O P .
M a p  N o .:  2 0 1 5 1 0 1 4 - 0 1 - D K
M a p  D a t e :  1 0 / 1 4 / 1 5
S o u r c e s :
D O T  A ir p o r t s :  S t a t e  o f  H a w a ii, D O T , 2 0 1 4 .
0 5 1 0 2 . 5 M i l e sH o n o lu lu
I n t e r n a t io n a l
A ir p o r tD illin g h a m
A ir f ie ld
K a la e lo a
A ir p o r t
T h is  m a p  w a s  p r o d u c e d  b y  t h e  O f f ic e  o f
P la n n in g  ( O P )  f o r  p la n n in g  p u r p o s e s .
I t  s h o u ld  n o t  b e  u s e d  f o r  b o u n d a r y  in t e r -
p r e t a t io n s  o r  o t h e r  s p a t ia l a n a ly s is  b e y o n d
t h e  lim it a t io n s  o f  t h e  d a t a .  I n f o r m a t io n
r e g a r d in g  c o m p ila t io n  d a t e s  a n d  a c c u r a c y  o f
t h e  d a t a  p r e s e n t e d  c a n  b e  o b t a in e d  f r o m  O P .
M a p  N o .:  2 0 1 5 1 0 1 4 - 0 1 - D K
M a p  D a t e :  1 0 / 1 4 / 1 5
S o u r c e s :
D O T  A ir p o r t s :  S t a t e  o f  H a w a ii, D O T , 2 0 1 4 .H o n o lu lu  C o u n t y
5  S t a t u t e  M ile  B u f f e r  A r o u n d  A ir p o r t
S t a t e  D O T  A ir p o r t s
0 5 1 0 2 . 5 M i l e sK a h u lu i
A ir p o r t
H a n a  A ir p o r tK a p a lu a
A ir p o r t
L a n a i A ir p o r tK a la u p a p a
A ir p o r tM o lo k a i
A ir p o r t0 5 1 0 2 . 5 M i l e s
M a u i C o u n t y
5  S t a t u t e  M ile  B u f f e r  A r o u n d  A ir p o r t
S t a t e  D O T  A ir p o r t s
T h is  m a p  w a s  p r o d u c e d  b y  t h e  O f f ic e  o f
P la n n in g  ( O P )  f o r  p la n n in g  p u r p o s e s .
I t  s h o u ld  n o t  b e  u s e d  f o r  b o u n d a r y  in t e r -
p r e t a t io n s  o r  o t h e r  s p a t ia l a n a ly s is  b e y o n d
t h e  lim it a t io n s  o f  t h e  d a t a .  I n f o r m a t io n
r e g a r d in g  c o m p ila t io n  d a t e s  a n d  a c c u r a c y  o f
t h e  d a t a  p r e s e n t e d  c a n  b e  o b t a in e d  f r o m  O P .
M a p  N o .:  2 0 1 5 1 0 1 4 - 0 1 - D K
M a p  D a t e :  1 0 / 1 4 / 1 5
S o u r c e s :
D O T  A ir p o r t s :  S t a t e  o f  H a w a ii, D O T , 2 0 1 4 .H ilo
I n t e r n a t io n a l
A ir p o r tK o n a  I n t e r n a t io n a l
A ir p o r t  a t  K e a h o leU p o lu
A ir p o r t
W a im e a - K o h a la
A ir p o r t
T h is  m a p  w a s  p r o d u c e d  b y  t h e  O f f ic e  o f
P la n n in g  ( O P )  f o r  p la n n in g  p u r p o s e s .
I t  s h o u ld  n o t  b e  u s e d  f o r  b o u n d a r y  in t e r -
p r e t a t io n s  o r  o t h e r  s p a t ia l a n a ly s is  b e y o n d
t h e  lim it a t io n s  o f  t h e  d a t a .  I n f o r m a t io n
r e g a r d in g  c o m p ila t io n  d a t e s  a n d  a c c u r a c y  o f
t h e  d a t a  p r e s e n t e d  c a n  b e  o b t a in e d  f r o m  O P .
M a p  N o .:  2 0 1 5 1 0 1 4 - 0 1 - D K
M a p  D a t e :  1 0 / 1 4 / 1 5
S o u r c e s :
D O T  A ir p o r t s :  S t a t e  o f  H a w a ii, D O T , 2 0 1 4 .H a w a ii C o u n t y
5  S t a t u t e  M ile  B u f f e r  A r o u n d  A ir p o r t
S t a t e  D O T  A ir p o r t s
0 1 0 2 0 5 M i l e s

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/CZM_Program_Flyer.pdf) ---
A B O U T  T H E  P R O G R A M  
P R O G R A M  C O M P O N E N T S  
Coastal Population in 2017*:  
1,427,538  
Miles of Coastline:  
750**/ 1,052***  
 
Ocean / Coastal Economy in 2015 *: 
$8,051,583,000 / $81,900,000,000  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CZM Partners:  
Federal:  NOAA, EPA, USACE, US Navy, USCG, USFWS, NMFS, 
HIHWNMS, PICCC, PacIOOS, WPRFMC  
 
State/County:  DBEDT, DOA, DOD, DOH, DLNR, DOT, DHHL, 
OHA, HCDA, LUC, OEQC, OMPO, MACZAC, UH -SOEST,  the City 
and County of Honolulu, County of Kau aʻi, County of Maui, 
County of Hawa iʻi 
 
Others:  The Nature Conservancy, Trust for Public Land  
 
Federally Funded Hawa iʻi CZM Program Staff:  
Office of Planning 9, Hawa iʻi County 6, Kau aʻi County 4, Maui 
County 4  
* Based on available data provided by The National Ocean Economic Program  
http://noep.mbari.org.  
** Based on general outline of seacoast.  
*** Includes shoreline of outer coast, offshore islands, bays, rivers and creeks to the head 
of tidewater or to a point where tidal waters narrow to a width of 100 feet.  
 
All figures as of December 7, 2018  OCEAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PLAN (ORMP)  
The ORMP is a statewide plan mandated by Hawa iʻi Revised Statutes 
Chapter 205A.  It is based on a three -perspective framework:  Connecting 
Land and Sea; Preserving Our Ocean Heritage; and Promoting Collaboration 
and Stewardship.  The plan builds upon traditional Hawaiian management 
principles and focuses on an integrated and area -based approach to natural 
and cultural resource management.   
MARINE AND COASTAL ZONE ADVOCACY COUNCIL (MACZAC)  
Composed of twelve advisory members statewide with diverse backgrounds 
in business, environment, native Hawaiian practices, terrestrial and marine 
commerce, recreation, research and tourism, MACZAC advises the Director 
of the Office of Planning on marine and coastal zone management 
planning, coordination, and facilitation of functions of the Hawa iʻi CZM 
Program.  SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA (SMA) PERMITS  
SMA Permitting is a management tool to assure that permitted uses and 
activities that are defined as developments in the SMA are designed and 
carried out in compliance with the CZM objectives and policies and SMA 
guidelines.  It is independently implemented by each of the four counties 
according to their respective ordinances and rules.  FEDERAL CONSISTENCY  
The national Coastal Zone Management Act requires direct federal activities 
and development projects to be consistent with approved state coastal 
programs to the maximum extent practicable.  Federally -permitted, licensed 
or assisted activities occurring in, or affecting, the state’s coastal zone must 
be in agreement with the Hawa iʻi  CZM Program’s objectives and policies.  To provide for the effective management, beneficial use, protection, and development of the coastal zone  
Hawa iʻi's CZM Program was enacted to provide a common focus for state and county actions dealing with land and water uses and 
activities. As the State's resource management policy umbrella, it is the guiding perspective for the design and implementati on of 
allowable land and water uses and activities throughout the state.   
Unlike single -purpose programs, the Hawa iʻi CZM Program focuses its work on the complex resource management problems of coastal 
areas in the State that are under the highest stress.  Within a framework of cooperation among federal, state and local level s, the Hawa iʻi 
CZM program employs a variety of regulatory and non -regulatory techniques to address coastal issues and uphold environmental law .  
Among them are stewardship, planning, permitting, education/outreach, technical assistance to local governments and permit ap plicants, 
policy development and implementation, and identification of emerging issues and exploration of solutions.  
P R O G R A M  F A C T S  
CZM FUNDING SUMMARY FY18 -19 
Federal Funds ($)  $2,459,651  
State Funds ($)  $310,474  
State & County Services in Kind  $1,998,178  R E C E N T  A C C O M P L I S H M E N TS 
C U R R E N T  &  F U T U R E  I N I T I A T I V E S  
Office of Planning  
State of Hawa iʻi 
P.O. Box 2359  
Honolulu, Hawa iʻi  96804 -2359  
http://planning.hawaii.gov/czm/  
Find us on Facebook  
OfficeofPlanning.HIgov  
PlanningHIgov  
12/18/2018  ASSESSING THE FEASIBILITY AND IMPLICATIONS OF MANAGED RETREAT STRATEGIES FOR VULNERABLE COASTAL AREAS IN HAWA IʻI 
This project expands efforts identified by an Ocean Resources Management Plan Action Team to assess the feasibility and impli cations of 
implementing managed retreat strategies. The project examines managed retreat programs that have been successfully implemente d in post -
catastrophic events and as part of long -range planning and reviews if and how their programs may be applied to Hawa iʻi. The project also explores 
the potential nexus of managed retreat and enhanced public access to the shore. Managed retreat has the potential for increas ing shoreline 
access to some areas in Hawa iʻi. This can be seen as an opportunity to enhance shoreline access for recreation, cultural practices, subsistence, 
and coastal safety.  CZM Program  
 
• Reports Completed:  
 Building Code Amendments to Reduce Existing and Future 
Building Stock Vulnerability to Coastal Hazards and Climate 
Impacts in the City and County of Honolulu . The primary goal 
of this project is to develop disaster resilient measures to 
reduce vulnerability to natural hazards cause by climate 
change through the examination of current City and County of 
Honolulu building codes and proposing code amendments. 
Suggested changes will strengthen and/or replace regulations 
to reduce existing and future building stock vulnerability to 
coastal hazards and climate impacts.  
• Support for County of Maui Shoreline Access Update — the Hawa iʻi 
CZM Program contracted with the County of Maui to update its 
existing public access inventory to provide improved access 
through a user -friendly web -based interface facilitating coastal -
recreation opportunities accessible to the public.  
• Support of partner publications including the Homeowner’s 
Handbook to Prepare for Natural Hazards Version 3.2, ( UH Sea 
Grant), My Hawa iʻi Story Project 2018, ( Hawa iʻi Conservation 
Alliance),  and Community Watershed Snapshot Guidebook, 
(Hawa iʻi Conservation Alliance).  Other OP Programs  
 
• Special Plans Branch continued activities for statewide 
integration of Sustainability goals and objectives; completed 
Phase 1 of a comprehensive review and update of the Hawa iʻi  
State Plan; provided administration and support of the Special 
Action Team on Affordable Rental Housing; and managed an EDA 
grant of $130,000 to identify innovation industry opportunities 
along the TOD corridor.  
• The Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Program continued to 
support and promote the use of the State’s enterprise GIS 
resources and data in partnership with the Office of Enterprise 
Technology Services (ETS). More than 600 agency users have 
access to the State’s geoplatform. Many have developed internal 
and public -facing applications leveraging the training, tools, and 
resources provided by the GIS Program. The GIS Program also 
developed a geospatial open data portal, making more than 300 
data sets available to the public.  
• Land Use Division (LUD) represents the State on all land use and 
important agricultural land matters before the State Land Use 
Commission, and continues to lead State coordination efforts on 
Transit -Oriented Development (TOD) projects on approximately 
1,900 acres of State -owned lands surrounding the proposed 21 
rail stations on Oahu, as well as the neighbor islands.  
PROBABILISTIC TSUNAMI DESIGN ZONE MAPS FOR O ʻAHU 
The Hawa iʻi Multi -Hazard Mitigation Plan identified tsunamis as a hazard of high concern for the State. In 2016, the American Society of Ci vil 
Engineers (ASCE) developed ASCE 7 -16, Chapter 6 — Tsunami Loads and Effects — the first national, consensus -based standard for t sunami 
resilience in Hawa iʻi and other Western states . To assist for upcoming use with the ASCE 7 -16 design standards in Hawa iʻi, high -resolution maps of 
2,500 -year probabilistic tsunami inundation zones for O ʻahu will be developed to be compatible with both the State Building Code Council and 
the City & County of Honolulu Building Code amendments. CZM plans to develop probabilistic tsunami design zone maps statewide  in the future.  
OCEAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PLAN — UPDATE  
The Ocean Resources Management Plan (ORMP) focuses on an integrated approach to managing ocean resources in the islands based  on 
recognition of the ecological connections between the land and sea, the link between human activities and their impacts on th e environment, 
and the need for improved collaboration and stewardship in natural resources governance.  The 2013 ORMP identifies eleven Manage ment 
Priorities, notes responsible agencies and resources, and provides a method for performance measures and reporting. The ORMP is updated 
every five years with extended government feedback and statewide public input. The next update process is planned for 2019.  
UPDATING THE HAWA IʻI HISTORICAL SHORELINE DATABASE  
This project updates the existing coastal erosion maps, utilizing aerial photographs, early shoreline maps, and satellite ima gery to update 
shoreline change rates for the islands of Kaua ʻi, Maui, and O ʻahu. State and county agencies use these data to guide siting of construction in 
shoreline areas to avoid impacts from coastal erosion.  Since 1978, the Hawa iʻi CZM Program has undertaken a number of initiatives in various areas related to the coastal zone.  Most recently, the 
program is involved in the following initiatives:

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/CZM_Program_Flyer.pdf) ---
A B O U T  T H E  P R O G R A M  
P R O G R A M  C O M P O N E N T S  
Coastal Population in 2017*:  
1,427,538  
Miles of Coastline:  
750**/ 1,052***  
 
Ocean / Coastal Economy in 2015 *: 
$8,051,583,000 / $81,900,000,000  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CZM Partners:  
Federal:  NOAA, EPA, USACE, US Navy, USCG, USFWS, NMFS, 
HIHWNMS, PICCC, PacIOOS, WPRFMC  
 
State/County:  DBEDT, DOA, DOD, DOH, DLNR, DOT, DHHL, 
OHA, HCDA, LUC, OEQC, OMPO, MACZAC, UH -SOEST,  the City 
and County of Honolulu, County of Kau aʻi, County of Maui, 
County of Hawa iʻi 
 
Others:  The Nature Conservancy, Trust for Public Land  
 
Federally Funded Hawa iʻi CZM Program Staff:  
Office of Planning 9, Hawa iʻi County 6, Kau aʻi County 4, Maui 
County 4  
* Based on available data provided by The National Ocean Economic Program  
http://noep.mbari.org.  
** Based on general outline of seacoast.  
*** Includes shoreline of outer coast, offshore islands, bays, rivers and creeks to the head 
of tidewater or to a point where tidal waters narrow to a width of 100 feet.  
 
All figures as of December 7, 2018  OCEAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PLAN (ORMP)  
The ORMP is a statewide plan mandated by Hawa iʻi Revised Statutes 
Chapter 205A.  It is based on a three -perspective framework:  Connecting 
Land and Sea; Preserving Our Ocean Heritage; and Promoting Collaboration 
and Stewardship.  The plan builds upon traditional Hawaiian management 
principles and focuses on an integrated and area -based approach to natural 
and cultural resource management.   
MARINE AND COASTAL ZONE ADVOCACY COUNCIL (MACZAC)  
Composed of twelve advisory members statewide with diverse backgrounds 
in business, environment, native Hawaiian practices, terrestrial and marine 
commerce, recreation, research and tourism, MACZAC advises the Director 
of the Office of Planning on marine and coastal zone management 
planning, coordination, and facilitation of functions of the Hawa iʻi CZM 
Program.  SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA (SMA) PERMITS  
SMA Permitting is a management tool to assure that permitted uses and 
activities that are defined as developments in the SMA are designed and 
carried out in compliance with the CZM objectives and policies and SMA 
guidelines.  It is independently implemented by each of the four counties 
according to their respective ordinances and rules.  FEDERAL CONSISTENCY  
The national Coastal Zone Management Act requires direct federal activities 
and development projects to be consistent with approved state coastal 
programs to the maximum extent practicable.  Federally -permitted, licensed 
or assisted activities occurring in, or affecting, the state’s coastal zone must 
be in agreement with the Hawa iʻi  CZM Program’s objectives and policies.  To provide for the effective management, beneficial use, protection, and development of the coastal zone  
Hawa iʻi's CZM Program was enacted to provide a common focus for state and county actions dealing with land and water uses and 
activities. As the State's resource management policy umbrella, it is the guiding perspective for the design and implementati on of 
allowable land and water uses and activities throughout the state.   
Unlike single -purpose programs, the Hawa iʻi CZM Program focuses its work on the complex resource management problems of coastal 
areas in the State that are under the highest stress.  Within a framework of cooperation among federal, state and local level s, the Hawa iʻi 
CZM program employs a variety of regulatory and non -regulatory techniques to address coastal issues and uphold environmental law .  
Among them are stewardship, planning, permitting, education/outreach, technical assistance to local governments and permit ap plicants, 
policy development and implementation, and identification of emerging issues and exploration of solutions.  
P R O G R A M  F A C T S  
CZM FUNDING SUMMARY FY18 -19 
Federal Funds ($)  $2,459,651  
State Funds ($)  $310,474  
State & County Services in Kind  $1,998,178  R E C E N T  A C C O M P L I S H M E N TS 
C U R R E N T  &  F U T U R E  I N I T I A T I V E S  
Office of Planning  
State of Hawa iʻi 
P.O. Box 2359  
Honolulu, Hawa iʻi  96804 -2359  
http://planning.hawaii.gov/czm/  
Find us on Facebook  
OfficeofPlanning.HIgov  
PlanningHIgov  
12/18/2018  ASSESSING THE FEASIBILITY AND IMPLICATIONS OF MANAGED RETREAT STRATEGIES FOR VULNERABLE COASTAL AREAS IN HAWA IʻI 
This project expands efforts identified by an Ocean Resources Management Plan Action Team to assess the feasibility and impli cations of 
implementing managed retreat strategies. The project examines managed retreat programs that have been successfully implemente d in post -
catastrophic events and as part of long -range planning and reviews if and how their programs may be applied to Hawa iʻi. The project also explores 
the potential nexus of managed retreat and enhanced public access to the shore. Managed retreat has the potential for increas ing shoreline 
access to some areas in Hawa iʻi. This can be seen as an opportunity to enhance shoreline access for recreation, cultural practices, subsistence, 
and coastal safety.  CZM Program  
 
• Reports Completed:  
 Building Code Amendments to Reduce Existing and Future 
Building Stock Vulnerability to Coastal Hazards and Climate 
Impacts in the City and County of Honolulu . The primary goal 
of this project is to develop disaster resilient measures to 
reduce vulnerability to natural hazards cause by climate 
change through the examination of current City and County of 
Honolulu building codes and proposing code amendments. 
Suggested changes will strengthen and/or replace regulations 
to reduce existing and future building stock vulnerability to 
coastal hazards and climate impacts.  
• Support for County of Maui Shoreline Access Update — the Hawa iʻi 
CZM Program contracted with the County of Maui to update its 
existing public access inventory to provide improved access 
through a user -friendly web -based interface facilitating coastal -
recreation opportunities accessible to the public.  
• Support of partner publications including the Homeowner’s 
Handbook to Prepare for Natural Hazards Version 3.2, ( UH Sea 
Grant), My Hawa iʻi Story Project 2018, ( Hawa iʻi Conservation 
Alliance),  and Community Watershed Snapshot Guidebook, 
(Hawa iʻi Conservation Alliance).  Other OP Programs  
 
• Special Plans Branch continued activities for statewide 
integration of Sustainability goals and objectives; completed 
Phase 1 of a comprehensive review and update of the Hawa iʻi  
State Plan; provided administration and support of the Special 
Action Team on Affordable Rental Housing; and managed an EDA 
grant of $130,000 to identify innovation industry opportunities 
along the TOD corridor.  
• The Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Program continued to 
support and promote the use of the State’s enterprise GIS 
resources and data in partnership with the Office of Enterprise 
Technology Services (ETS). More than 600 agency users have 
access to the State’s geoplatform. Many have developed internal 
and public -facing applications leveraging the training, tools, and 
resources provided by the GIS Program. The GIS Program also 
developed a geospatial open data portal, making more than 300 
data sets available to the public.  
• Land Use Division (LUD) represents the State on all land use and 
important agricultural land matters before the State Land Use 
Commission, and continues to lead State coordination efforts on 
Transit -Oriented Development (TOD) projects on approximately 
1,900 acres of State -owned lands surrounding the proposed 21 
rail stations on Oahu, as well as the neighbor islands.  
PROBABILISTIC TSUNAMI DESIGN ZONE MAPS FOR O ʻAHU 
The Hawa iʻi Multi -Hazard Mitigation Plan identified tsunamis as a hazard of high concern for the State. In 2016, the American Society of Ci vil 
Engineers (ASCE) developed ASCE 7 -16, Chapter 6 — Tsunami Loads and Effects — the first national, consensus -based standard for t sunami 
resilience in Hawa iʻi and other Western states . To assist for upcoming use with the ASCE 7 -16 design standards in Hawa iʻi, high -resolution maps of 
2,500 -year probabilistic tsunami inundation zones for O ʻahu will be developed to be compatible with both the State Building Code Council and 
the City & County of Honolulu Building Code amendments. CZM plans to develop probabilistic tsunami design zone maps statewide  in the future.  
OCEAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PLAN — UPDATE  
The Ocean Resources Management Plan (ORMP) focuses on an integrated approach to managing ocean resources in the islands based  on 
recognition of the ecological connections between the land and sea, the link between human activities and their impacts on th e environment, 
and the need for improved collaboration and stewardship in natural resources governance.  The 2013 ORMP identifies eleven Manage ment 
Priorities, notes responsible agencies and resources, and provides a method for performance measures and reporting. The ORMP is updated 
every five years with extended government feedback and statewide public input. The next update process is planned for 2019.  
UPDATING THE HAWA IʻI HISTORICAL SHORELINE DATABASE  
This project updates the existing coastal erosion maps, utilizing aerial photographs, early shoreline maps, and satellite ima gery to update 
shoreline change rates for the islands of Kaua ʻi, Maui, and O ʻahu. State and county agencies use these data to guide siting of construction in 
shoreline areas to avoid impacts from coastal erosion.  Since 1978, the Hawa iʻi CZM Program has undertaken a number of initiatives in various areas related to the coastal zone.  Most recently, the 
program is involved in the following initiatives:

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/GIS_Program_Flyer.pdf) ---
"Improving efficiency and effectiveness in government decision -making through education, facilitation, and coordination of GIS m apping technologies"  
Hawaii 's GIS Program is tasked with “...planning, coordinating, and maintaining a comprehensive, shared statewide planning, and 
geographic information system and associated geospatial database.   The office shall be the lead agency responsible for coordinat ing 
the maintenance of the multi -agency, statewide planning and geographic information system and coordinating, collecting, integrat ing, 
and disseminating geospatial data sets that are used to support a variety of state agency applications and other spatial data  analyses 
to enhance decision making.   The office shall promote and encourage free and open data sharing among and between all govern-
ment agencies.” (Hawaii Revised Statutes (HRS) §225M -2(b)(4))  
In carrying out its statutory mandate as the lead agency for the statewide GIS program, the Office of Planning (OP) supports and coor-
dinates GIS efforts across state agencies in addition to conducting spatial analysis and mapping for projects and initiatives  in OP, the 
Department of Business, Economic, Development and Tourism (DBEDT), and other State agencies.  A B O U T  T H E  P R O G R A M  
P R O G R A M  C O M P O N E N T S  
State GIS Database  
OP is responsible for managing the State GIS database.  The GIS Program 
encourages and facilitates sharing of data among agencies to minimize 
stove -piping of data, thus cutting costs and reducing duplication of effort.  
The State GIS database contains over 200 data layers, including contri-
butions from federal, state, and county agencies.    
State GIS Website  
The State GIS website (http://planning.hawaii.gov/gis) contains a wealth 
of information for decision -makers, the public, and GIS experts alike. The 
site has nearly 200 downloadable GIS data layers for use in mapping 
and GIS analysis, as well as popular downloadable maps and easy -to-use 
web mapping services.  The site is a well -known resource across Hawaii 
and even the nation.  OP’s GIS Program was the first government agency 
in Hawaii to offer public GIS data sets for download at no charge.  
State GIS Coordination  
In executing its statutory mandate as the lead agency for GIS in State 
government, OP supports and tracks GIS efforts across State agencies. 
As part of its partnership with the State Chief Information Officer and the 
Pacific Disaster Center, OP looks forward to even more coordination and 
collaboration. OP is a founding member and sits on the Board of Direc-
tors of the Hawaii Geographic Information Coordinating Council (HIGICC), 
a non -profit organization consisting of members of Hawaii's geospatial 
community. HIGICC’s goal  is to provide coordination of geospatial activi-
ties among GIS users from all sectors.   OP is also a member of the Na-
tional States Geographic Information Council (NSGIC), a national organi-
zation committed to efficient and effective government through the pru-
dent adoption of geospatial information technologies.   
P R O G R A M  F A C T S  
 
Number of Datasets/Layers on State Server  
271 
Number of Downloadable Layers on GIS Website  
185 
 
Number of REST Services Deployed  
172 
 
Number of Downloadable Maps on GIS Website  
119 
 
Sample Data, Maps, and Services at GIS Web Site  
LSB Land Locator, Enterprise Zone Locator, 2010 Cen-
sus Thematic Maps, Census Interactive Online Maps, 
Geothermal and Warm Ground Water, Rainfall and Rain 
Gauge Stations, Solar Irradiance and Radiation, Wind 
Energy Resource, Tsunami Evacuation Zones, Ocean 
Recreation Areas, Water Quality Classifications, Agricul-
tural Lands of Importance to the State of Hawaii (ALISH)  
 
Hawaii State GIS Partners  
Federal:  NOAA, USGS, US Census Bureau, DOA/NRCS, 
USFWS, USACE,  NPS, NGS  
 
State/County:  OIMT, ICSD, DBEDT, DOA, AG, DOE, DOH, 
DLNR, DOT, OHA, HCDA, LUC, County of Hawaii, City and 
County of Honolulu, County of Kauai, County of Maui  
 
Others:  Hawaii Geographic Information Coordinating 
Council, Pacific Disaster Center  
 
Hawaii GIS Program Positions  
3 
 
* All figures as of September 26, 2013  Office of Planning, State of Hawaii  
State GIS Program  
GIS Mapping, Analysis, and Technical Support  
The GIS Program conducts mapping and analysis for projects and initia-
tives in OP, DBEDT and other State agencies, as well as providing techni-
cal support and GIS guidance to all State GIS users.   With County, State and Federal partners, built the State GIS 
database, containing data developed and contributed by all 
levels of government.  
 Maintains the State GIS database, adding, updating and 
organizing data and metadata.  
 First government agency in Hawaii to create (non -FGDC) 
metadata for all public layers, listing data source, date, scale, 
attribute definitions, etc.  
 First government agency in Hawaii to offer public geospatial 
data for download over the Internet at no cost.   Participated in (and often helped to organize) several joint fund-
ing agreements with other County, State and Federal partners 
to acquire such critical data sets as TMK parcels, satellite im-
agery data, and digital topo maps.  
 Maintains a State GIS User email list in order to disseminate 
information about new and updated data and upcoming events 
of interest to the State geospatial data user community.  
 Maintains the State GIS Website, containing nearly 200 
donwloadable GIS layers, links to other geospatial data provid-
ers and links to various web mapping applications developed by 
the State GIS Program.  K E Y  A C C O M P L I S H M E N T S  
Since establishment in 1988, the Hawaii State GIS Program in the Office of Planning has undertaken a number of initiatives in  a variety 
of areas related to geospatial data and coordination.  Currently, the program is involved in the following initiatives:  
Conversion of Hawaii State GIS Database  
Although the 200+ layers in the State GIS database have proven to be a great resource for State agencies and the public alike , they will 
be far more useful to State agencies after they are converted into one or more spatial geodatabases.  This conversion is unde r way, and 
will make querying and displaying the data much faster due to the more efficient storage and delivery of data in a relational  database.  As 
part of this project, the State GIS Program will convert all of the existing metadata documents into metadata meeting federal  standards.  
Modernizing Hawaii State GIS  
The GIS Program is working closely with the State Chief Information Officer to modernize the State GIS.  A Strategic Planning  effort for 
GIS, completed in 2012, included plans to migrate the State GIS database from the 8 -year old server on which it resides, to mode rn infra-
structure, including high -end servers and cloud storage.  This migration is well under way.  In addition, the CIO and GIS Progra m are deliv-
ering the data to users in more efficient and user -friendly ways, including web map and feature services and targeted applicatio ns. 
 O N G O I N G  I N I T I A T I V E S  
Office of Planning  
State of Hawai`i  
P.O. Box 2359  
Honolulu, Hawai`i  96804 -2359  
(808) 587 -2846  http://planning.hawaii.gov/gis  
Find us on Facebook  
State of Hawaii Office of Planning  
 
@HawOfcPlanning  
09/26/2013  Office of Planning, State of Hawaii  
State GIS Program

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/GIS_Program_Flyer.pdf) ---
"Improving efficiency and effectiveness in government decision -making through education, facilitation, and coordination of GIS m apping technologies"  
Hawaii 's GIS Program is tasked with “...planning, coordinating, and maintaining a comprehensive, shared statewide planning, and 
geographic information system and associated geospatial database.   The office shall be the lead agency responsible for coordinat ing 
the maintenance of the multi -agency, statewide planning and geographic information system and coordinating, collecting, integrat ing, 
and disseminating geospatial data sets that are used to support a variety of state agency applications and other spatial data  analyses 
to enhance decision making.   The office shall promote and encourage free and open data sharing among and between all govern-
ment agencies.” (Hawaii Revised Statutes (HRS) §225M -2(b)(4))  
In carrying out its statutory mandate as the lead agency for the statewide GIS program, the Office of Planning (OP) supports and coor-
dinates GIS efforts across state agencies in addition to conducting spatial analysis and mapping for projects and initiatives  in OP, the 
Department of Business, Economic, Development and Tourism (DBEDT), and other State agencies.  A B O U T  T H E  P R O G R A M  
P R O G R A M  C O M P O N E N T S  
State GIS Database  
OP is responsible for managing the State GIS database.  The GIS Program 
encourages and facilitates sharing of data among agencies to minimize 
stove -piping of data, thus cutting costs and reducing duplication of effort.  
The State GIS database contains over 200 data layers, including contri-
butions from federal, state, and county agencies.    
State GIS Website  
The State GIS website (http://planning.hawaii.gov/gis) contains a wealth 
of information for decision -makers, the public, and GIS experts alike. The 
site has nearly 200 downloadable GIS data layers for use in mapping 
and GIS analysis, as well as popular downloadable maps and easy -to-use 
web mapping services.  The site is a well -known resource across Hawaii 
and even the nation.  OP’s GIS Program was the first government agency 
in Hawaii to offer public GIS data sets for download at no charge.  
State GIS Coordination  
In executing its statutory mandate as the lead agency for GIS in State 
government, OP supports and tracks GIS efforts across State agencies. 
As part of its partnership with the State Chief Information Officer and the 
Pacific Disaster Center, OP looks forward to even more coordination and 
collaboration. OP is a founding member and sits on the Board of Direc-
tors of the Hawaii Geographic Information Coordinating Council (HIGICC), 
a non -profit organization consisting of members of Hawaii's geospatial 
community. HIGICC’s goal  is to provide coordination of geospatial activi-
ties among GIS users from all sectors.   OP is also a member of the Na-
tional States Geographic Information Council (NSGIC), a national organi-
zation committed to efficient and effective government through the pru-
dent adoption of geospatial information technologies.   
P R O G R A M  F A C T S  
 
Number of Datasets/Layers on State Server  
271 
Number of Downloadable Layers on GIS Website  
185 
 
Number of REST Services Deployed  
172 
 
Number of Downloadable Maps on GIS Website  
119 
 
Sample Data, Maps, and Services at GIS Web Site  
LSB Land Locator, Enterprise Zone Locator, 2010 Cen-
sus Thematic Maps, Census Interactive Online Maps, 
Geothermal and Warm Ground Water, Rainfall and Rain 
Gauge Stations, Solar Irradiance and Radiation, Wind 
Energy Resource, Tsunami Evacuation Zones, Ocean 
Recreation Areas, Water Quality Classifications, Agricul-
tural Lands of Importance to the State of Hawaii (ALISH)  
 
Hawaii State GIS Partners  
Federal:  NOAA, USGS, US Census Bureau, DOA/NRCS, 
USFWS, USACE,  NPS, NGS  
 
State/County:  OIMT, ICSD, DBEDT, DOA, AG, DOE, DOH, 
DLNR, DOT, OHA, HCDA, LUC, County of Hawaii, City and 
County of Honolulu, County of Kauai, County of Maui  
 
Others:  Hawaii Geographic Information Coordinating 
Council, Pacific Disaster Center  
 
Hawaii GIS Program Positions  
3 
 
* All figures as of September 26, 2013  Office of Planning, State of Hawaii  
State GIS Program  
GIS Mapping, Analysis, and Technical Support  
The GIS Program conducts mapping and analysis for projects and initia-
tives in OP, DBEDT and other State agencies, as well as providing techni-
cal support and GIS guidance to all State GIS users.   With County, State and Federal partners, built the State GIS 
database, containing data developed and contributed by all 
levels of government.  
 Maintains the State GIS database, adding, updating and 
organizing data and metadata.  
 First government agency in Hawaii to create (non -FGDC) 
metadata for all public layers, listing data source, date, scale, 
attribute definitions, etc.  
 First government agency in Hawaii to offer public geospatial 
data for download over the Internet at no cost.   Participated in (and often helped to organize) several joint fund-
ing agreements with other County, State and Federal partners 
to acquire such critical data sets as TMK parcels, satellite im-
agery data, and digital topo maps.  
 Maintains a State GIS User email list in order to disseminate 
information about new and updated data and upcoming events 
of interest to the State geospatial data user community.  
 Maintains the State GIS Website, containing nearly 200 
donwloadable GIS layers, links to other geospatial data provid-
ers and links to various web mapping applications developed by 
the State GIS Program.  K E Y  A C C O M P L I S H M E N T S  
Since establishment in 1988, the Hawaii State GIS Program in the Office of Planning has undertaken a number of initiatives in  a variety 
of areas related to geospatial data and coordination.  Currently, the program is involved in the following initiatives:  
Conversion of Hawaii State GIS Database  
Although the 200+ layers in the State GIS database have proven to be a great resource for State agencies and the public alike , they will 
be far more useful to State agencies after they are converted into one or more spatial geodatabases.  This conversion is unde r way, and 
will make querying and displaying the data much faster due to the more efficient storage and delivery of data in a relational  database.  As 
part of this project, the State GIS Program will convert all of the existing metadata documents into metadata meeting federal  standards.  
Modernizing Hawaii State GIS  
The GIS Program is working closely with the State Chief Information Officer to modernize the State GIS.  A Strategic Planning  effort for 
GIS, completed in 2012, included plans to migrate the State GIS database from the 8 -year old server on which it resides, to mode rn infra-
structure, including high -end servers and cloud storage.  This migration is well under way.  In addition, the CIO and GIS Progra m are deliv-
ering the data to users in more efficient and user -friendly ways, including web map and feature services and targeted applicatio ns. 
 O N G O I N G  I N I T I A T I V E S  
Office of Planning  
State of Hawai`i  
P.O. Box 2359  
Honolulu, Hawai`i  96804 -2359  
(808) 587 -2846  http://planning.hawaii.gov/gis  
Find us on Facebook  
State of Hawaii Office of Planning  
 
@HawOfcPlanning  
09/26/2013  Office of Planning, State of Hawaii  
State GIS Program

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/LUD_Program_Flyer.pdf) ---
Office of Planning, State of Hawaii, http://planning.hawaii.gov Ensuring orderly growth of the State by protecting and encouraging the use of lands for purposes that provide long-term public benefit. 
The Land Use Division (LUD) of the Office of  Planning (OP) prepares and presents the State’s position in district boundary amen d-
ments and other proceedings before the State Land Use Commission  (Commission). Pursuant to Hawa ii Revised Statutes (HRS) Chap-
ter 205, State Land Use Law, all lands in the State are classified  into four districts: Urban, Rural, Agricultural, and Conserv ation. The 
Commission reviews and acts on petitions to reclassify or amend the district boundaries through a quasi-judicial proceeding. Th is is 
often the first step in the entitlement proce ss for major development projects in Hawaii. 
LUD represents the State in all boundary change petitions and proceedings before th e Commission, assists State agencies in the 
preparation and submittal of comments and testimony to petitions for district boundary amendments, and conducts periodic review s 
of the classification and districting of all lands in the State.  LUD incorporates the Administration’s New Day Plan priorities in its review 
and recommendations for petitions before the Commission; these prio rities include economy and jobs , food self-reliance, agricul tural 
lands, housing, stewardship of natural resources, sust ainability, and transportation and workforce housing.  ABOUT THE PROGRAM 
PROGRAM COMPONENTS 
PETITIONS FOR DISTRICT BOUNDARY AMENDMENTS 
OP is a mandatory party in petitions to the Commission to amend district 
boundaries. An Environmental Asse ssment or Environmental Impact 
Statement pursuant to HRS Chapter 343 is required for petitions that include the use of State or county lands or funds, county general plan amendments, Conservation District lands, shoreline, historic sites, and major utilities. LUD reviews petitions to address major areas of statewide 
concerns including natural systems and habitats, agricultural resources, 
archaeological, cultural and historic al resources, commitment of state 
funds and resources, employment opportunities and economic develop-ment, and housing opportunities. Priority concerns also include ensuring adequate transportation, educational,  and public facilities, water re-
source protection, public health and safety, and sustainable resource and 
energy use. 
SPECIAL PERMITS 
Unusual and reasonable uses may be permitted in the Agricultural and 
Rural Districts by the county planning commissions through issuance of a 
Special Permit pursuant to HRS Section 205 ‑6. Special Permits involving 
lands greater than 15 acres or designated Important Agricultural Lands 
must also be approved by the Commission. OP may participate as a party in the county process as well as the Commission hearings. 
DESIGNATION OF IMPORTANT AGRICULTURAL LANDS  
The Commission is authorized to designate Important Agricultural Lands (IAL) through a voluntary or a county-initiated process as set forth in HRS Sections 205-45 and 47 respectively. The objective is to maintain a stra-tegic agricultural land resource base to support a diversity of agricultural activities and opportunities that expa nd agricultural income and jobs and 
increase agricultural self-sufficiency. OP reviews and makes recommen-
dations to the Commission on petiti ons for the designation of IAL. 
LAND USE DISTRICT BOUNDARY REVIEW 
OP is responsible for the periodic review of the classification and district-
ing of all lands in the State. The comprehensive review focuses on the Hawaii state plan, county general plan, and county development and community plans. Pursuant to HRS Section 205-18, OP may initiate 
boundary amendments which it deems appropriate to conform to these plans. Frequent LUD Partners: 
State:  DAGS, DOA, DBEDT, DOD, DOE, DHHL, DOH, 
DLNR, CWRM, DOT, HHFDC, OHA 
County:  Planning departments of the City and County 
of Honolulu, County of Maui, County of Hawaii, and 
County of Kauai PROGRAM FACTS 
County  Conservation  Agricultural  Urban  Rural  
Honolulu 158,652 120,616 104,423 0 
Maui 325,791 390,318 28,675 8,062 
Hawaii 1,343,136 1,183,679 57,073 1,618 
Kauai 194,720 190,391 14,865 1,374 
Total 2,022,299 1,885, 004 205,036 11,054 
Percent 49.0% 45.7% 5.0% 0.3% Land in State Land Use Districts1,2 
(in acres)  
 
 
   Year  Year
  Acres        
 2013  464  
 2012  2,890  
 2011  108  
 2010  1,040  
 2009  182  
 Five  Year Total  4,683  Lands Reclassified to Urban2 
 Year Acres   
 2013 11,026   
 2011 58,984  
 2009 30,875  
 Total 100,885  Lands Designated as Important Agricultural Lands  
1 Acreage from OP GIS state land use file, Feb 2012, updated with LUC actions thru 2013 
2 Acreage does not include all county district boundary amendments less than 15 acres Land Use Division 
Office of Planning, State of Hawai`i

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/LUD_Program_Flyer.pdf) ---
Office of Planning, State of Hawaii, http://planning.hawaii.gov Ensuring orderly growth of the State by protecting and encouraging the use of lands for purposes that provide long-term public benefit. 
The Land Use Division (LUD) of the Office of  Planning (OP) prepares and presents the State’s position in district boundary amen d-
ments and other proceedings before the State Land Use Commission  (Commission). Pursuant to Hawa ii Revised Statutes (HRS) Chap-
ter 205, State Land Use Law, all lands in the State are classified  into four districts: Urban, Rural, Agricultural, and Conserv ation. The 
Commission reviews and acts on petitions to reclassify or amend the district boundaries through a quasi-judicial proceeding. Th is is 
often the first step in the entitlement proce ss for major development projects in Hawaii. 
LUD represents the State in all boundary change petitions and proceedings before th e Commission, assists State agencies in the 
preparation and submittal of comments and testimony to petitions for district boundary amendments, and conducts periodic review s 
of the classification and districting of all lands in the State.  LUD incorporates the Administration’s New Day Plan priorities in its review 
and recommendations for petitions before the Commission; these prio rities include economy and jobs , food self-reliance, agricul tural 
lands, housing, stewardship of natural resources, sust ainability, and transportation and workforce housing.  ABOUT THE PROGRAM 
PROGRAM COMPONENTS 
PETITIONS FOR DISTRICT BOUNDARY AMENDMENTS 
OP is a mandatory party in petitions to the Commission to amend district 
boundaries. An Environmental Asse ssment or Environmental Impact 
Statement pursuant to HRS Chapter 343 is required for petitions that include the use of State or county lands or funds, county general plan amendments, Conservation District lands, shoreline, historic sites, and major utilities. LUD reviews petitions to address major areas of statewide 
concerns including natural systems and habitats, agricultural resources, 
archaeological, cultural and historic al resources, commitment of state 
funds and resources, employment opportunities and economic develop-ment, and housing opportunities. Priority concerns also include ensuring adequate transportation, educational,  and public facilities, water re-
source protection, public health and safety, and sustainable resource and 
energy use. 
SPECIAL PERMITS 
Unusual and reasonable uses may be permitted in the Agricultural and 
Rural Districts by the county planning commissions through issuance of a 
Special Permit pursuant to HRS Section 205 ‑6. Special Permits involving 
lands greater than 15 acres or designated Important Agricultural Lands 
must also be approved by the Commission. OP may participate as a party in the county process as well as the Commission hearings. 
DESIGNATION OF IMPORTANT AGRICULTURAL LANDS  
The Commission is authorized to designate Important Agricultural Lands (IAL) through a voluntary or a county-initiated process as set forth in HRS Sections 205-45 and 47 respectively. The objective is to maintain a stra-tegic agricultural land resource base to support a diversity of agricultural activities and opportunities that expa nd agricultural income and jobs and 
increase agricultural self-sufficiency. OP reviews and makes recommen-
dations to the Commission on petiti ons for the designation of IAL. 
LAND USE DISTRICT BOUNDARY REVIEW 
OP is responsible for the periodic review of the classification and district-
ing of all lands in the State. The comprehensive review focuses on the Hawaii state plan, county general plan, and county development and community plans. Pursuant to HRS Section 205-18, OP may initiate 
boundary amendments which it deems appropriate to conform to these plans. Frequent LUD Partners: 
State:  DAGS, DOA, DBEDT, DOD, DOE, DHHL, DOH, 
DLNR, CWRM, DOT, HHFDC, OHA 
County:  Planning departments of the City and County 
of Honolulu, County of Maui, County of Hawaii, and 
County of Kauai PROGRAM FACTS 
County  Conservation  Agricultural  Urban  Rural  
Honolulu 158,652 120,616 104,423 0 
Maui 325,791 390,318 28,675 8,062 
Hawaii 1,343,136 1,183,679 57,073 1,618 
Kauai 194,720 190,391 14,865 1,374 
Total 2,022,299 1,885, 004 205,036 11,054 
Percent 49.0% 45.7% 5.0% 0.3% Land in State Land Use Districts1,2 
(in acres)  
 
 
   Year  Year
  Acres        
 2013  464  
 2012  2,890  
 2011  108  
 2010  1,040  
 2009  182  
 Five  Year Total  4,683  Lands Reclassified to Urban2 
 Year Acres   
 2013 11,026   
 2011 58,984  
 2009 30,875  
 Total 100,885  Lands Designated as Important Agricultural Lands  
1 Acreage from OP GIS state land use file, Feb 2012, updated with LUC actions thru 2013 
2 Acreage does not include all county district boundary amendments less than 15 acres Land Use Division 
Office of Planning, State of Hawai`i

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/SPB_Program_Summary_20121008.pdf) ---
The Special Plans Branch (SPB) carries out the statewide pla nning functions of the Office of Planning (OP) as estab-
lished by the Hawaii State Planning Act, HRS Chapter 226.  SPB conducts statewide planning and policy studies to assist government decision makers.  SPB also prepares statewide strategic plans related to growth and development.     ABOUT THE PROGRAM 
COMPLETED & ON-GOING PROJECTS 
2010 HAWAII STATEWIDE COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY (CEDS) The 2010 CEDS is a comprehen-
sive economic development strategy to incr ease Hawaii’s economic competitiveness. The CEDS supports key industry clusters in Ha -
waii through proposed strategies and projects for implementation . A CEDS is a required precondition under most U.S. Economic De vel-
opment Administration (EDA) grants. The CEDS supports the New Day Plan’s “growing a sustainable economy” component.   
AGRICULTURAL RENAISSANCE  OP is developing strategic policies and actions that promote food self-sufficiency and food security 
initiatives in Hawaii. OP is working in collaboration with the State Department of Agriculture, the College of Tropical Agricul ture and 
Human Resources, and other organizations. This initiative suppo rts the “agricultural renaissance” and “food security” component s of 
the New Day Plan.  The project is funded by an EDA grant.  
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT  This three-part report developed by SMS Ma rketing & Research describes a baseline 
of rural and socio-economic conditions in Hawaii’s rural commu nities. This report examines stud ies and reports from successful rural 
communities in both Hawaii and the US and provides best-practic e recommendations to encourage rural economic development in 
Hawaii. Similar to the CEDS, this repo rt supports New Day Plan’s “growing a sustainable economy” component.    
MASTER PLAN FOR AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES AT HOEA  The Master Plan contains an en vironmental assessment and site 
plans which provide the first steps in developing a future agricu ltural processing facility in North Kohala.  Non-profit matchi ng funds. Special Plans Branch 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY FOR NATIVE HAWAIIAN COMMUNITIES With funds awarded through an EDA grant, OP 
will work with the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands to review past economic development strategies and develop an economic 
development strategy for native Hawaiian communities. HAWAII BROWNFIELDS CLEANUP REVOLVING LOAN FUND  (HBCRLF) The HBCRLF  provides low-cost loans to eligible public 
and private entities to clean-up brownfield sites in communities that have the greatest need for economic development projects.  
Funding is given to projects that display the potential for long-term project activity and demonstrate the ability for repaymen t.   
CEDS IMPLEMENTATION AND GREEN JOBS INITIATIVE  With funding from an EDA grant, OP will hold meetings with 2010 CEDS 
project proponents to identify barriers to CEDS project implemen tation. OP will develop guides and informational material to he lp 
project proponents and provide technical assistance with a focus on land use and environmental permitting. OP will also hold a work-
shop to deliver training on regulatory requirements pertaining to permitting.  CEDS IMPLEMENTATION — MASTER PLANS With the assistance of EDA grant funds, SPB supported master plans for the develop-
ment of a film and digital media center, agricultural business co mplex, and educational and health facilities.  Non-profit matc h. 
NATURAL DISASTER ECONOMIC RECOVERY STRATEGY With funding from an EDA grant, OP will develop a natural disaster eco-
nomic recovery strategy for Hawaii. 
Office of Planning, State of Hawai`i, 
P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, Hawai`i  
96804-2359      T: (808) 587-2846 
http://hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/special_plans.htm 
10/2012 
@HawOfcPlanning 
Office of Planning, State of Hawaii 
      Find us on Facebook State of Hawaii Office of Planning  FUTURE PROJECTS & INITIATIVES

--- Text from PDF (https://files.hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/docs/SPB_Program_Summary_20121008.pdf) ---
The Special Plans Branch (SPB) carries out the statewide pla nning functions of the Office of Planning (OP) as estab-
lished by the Hawaii State Planning Act, HRS Chapter 226.  SPB conducts statewide planning and policy studies to assist government decision makers.  SPB also prepares statewide strategic plans related to growth and development.     ABOUT THE PROGRAM 
COMPLETED & ON-GOING PROJECTS 
2010 HAWAII STATEWIDE COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY (CEDS) The 2010 CEDS is a comprehen-
sive economic development strategy to incr ease Hawaii’s economic competitiveness. The CEDS supports key industry clusters in Ha -
waii through proposed strategies and projects for implementation . A CEDS is a required precondition under most U.S. Economic De vel-
opment Administration (EDA) grants. The CEDS supports the New Day Plan’s “growing a sustainable economy” component.   
AGRICULTURAL RENAISSANCE  OP is developing strategic policies and actions that promote food self-sufficiency and food security 
initiatives in Hawaii. OP is working in collaboration with the State Department of Agriculture, the College of Tropical Agricul ture and 
Human Resources, and other organizations. This initiative suppo rts the “agricultural renaissance” and “food security” component s of 
the New Day Plan.  The project is funded by an EDA grant.  
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT  This three-part report developed by SMS Ma rketing & Research describes a baseline 
of rural and socio-economic conditions in Hawaii’s rural commu nities. This report examines stud ies and reports from successful rural 
communities in both Hawaii and the US and provides best-practic e recommendations to encourage rural economic development in 
Hawaii. Similar to the CEDS, this repo rt supports New Day Plan’s “growing a sustainable economy” component.    
MASTER PLAN FOR AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES AT HOEA  The Master Plan contains an en vironmental assessment and site 
plans which provide the first steps in developing a future agricu ltural processing facility in North Kohala.  Non-profit matchi ng funds. Special Plans Branch 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY FOR NATIVE HAWAIIAN COMMUNITIES With funds awarded through an EDA grant, OP 
will work with the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands to review past economic development strategies and develop an economic 
development strategy for native Hawaiian communities. HAWAII BROWNFIELDS CLEANUP REVOLVING LOAN FUND  (HBCRLF) The HBCRLF  provides low-cost loans to eligible public 
and private entities to clean-up brownfield sites in communities that have the greatest need for economic development projects.  
Funding is given to projects that display the potential for long-term project activity and demonstrate the ability for repaymen t.   
CEDS IMPLEMENTATION AND GREEN JOBS INITIATIVE  With funding from an EDA grant, OP will hold meetings with 2010 CEDS 
project proponents to identify barriers to CEDS project implemen tation. OP will develop guides and informational material to he lp 
project proponents and provide technical assistance with a focus on land use and environmental permitting. OP will also hold a work-
shop to deliver training on regulatory requirements pertaining to permitting.  CEDS IMPLEMENTATION — MASTER PLANS With the assistance of EDA grant funds, SPB supported master plans for the develop-
ment of a film and digital media center, agricultural business co mplex, and educational and health facilities.  Non-profit matc h. 
NATURAL DISASTER ECONOMIC RECOVERY STRATEGY With funding from an EDA grant, OP will develop a natural disaster eco-
nomic recovery strategy for Hawaii. 
Office of Planning, State of Hawai`i, 
P.O. Box 2359, Honolulu, Hawai`i  
96804-2359      T: (808) 587-2846 
http://hawaii.gov/dbedt/op/special_plans.htm 
10/2012 
@HawOfcPlanning 
Office of Planning, State of Hawaii 
      Find us on Facebook State of Hawaii Office of Planning  FUTURE PROJECTS & INITIATIVES
