Source URL: https://safetyshoes.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Safety Shoes Skip to Main Content Hawaii.gov An official website of the State of Hawaiʻi Search for: Search for: State of Hawaii Safety Shoes Home Documents Vendor Information Training Contact FAQ Safety Shoes Home Page Safety Shoes Purchase Program The State of Hawaii Executive Branch is committed to providing a healthy and safe working environment for all its employees in compliance with applicable Federal, State, and Local rules and regulations. Thus, all employees whose job activities expose them to foot hazards are required to wear foot protection. Foot protection shoes and devices, such as footguards, safety shoes or boots and leggings, protect employees from foot and leg injuries due to falling or rolling objects, sharp objects, molten metal, hot surfaces and wet, slippery surfaces. Leggings are designed to protect the wearer’s lower leg and feet from molten metal or welding sparks or flying objects such as rocks, tree branches, sticks, etc. Other protective footwear (such as metatarsal and shin guards) can be used in conjunction with standard safety shoes. Protective footwear worn must meet Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards pursuant to 29 CFR 1910.136 (b). About Purchasing Safety Toe Shoes The State of Hawaii, Executive Branch’s Safety Shoe Allowance Purchasing Guidelines and Instructions, developed in partnership with Hawaii Government Employees Association (HGEA), the United Public Workers Union (UPW), and the Department of Accounting and General Services Accounting Division shall be utilized when applicable protective footwear is purchased for employees. The employer provides a safety shoe allowance for the purchase of safety toe footwear by employees, as identified by the employers’ hazard assessment for foot protection, from any vendor. Documents Training Vendor Information FAQS The Safety Shoe Allowance Purchasing Guidelines and Instructions and fillable forms can be found under here. This is a recorded presentation on the procedures to use an allowance method to purchase safety toe shoes. Safety Shoe Allowance Guidelines and Instructions and forms discussed in the presentation are found under the “Documents” tab. Answers to the questions in the briefings can be viewed under the “FAQs” tab. A sample list of vendors. Answers to Frequently Asked Questions. Footer Content CONTACT Safety Shoes HAWAII.GOV Government Directory Online Services Social Media State Calendar Alerts An official website of the State of Hawaiʻi Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 , State of Hawaiʻi. All rights reserved

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
