Source URL: https://sscd.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer English 廣東話 Chuukese ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog Tongan ภาษาไทย Tiếng Việt Visayan x Do you need help in another language? We will get you a free interpreter. Call (808-369-3478) to tell us which language you speak. 您需要其它語言嗎？如有需要,請致電 (808-369-3478) , 我們會提供免費翻譯服務 您需要其它语言吗？如有需要,请致电 (808-369-3478) , 我们会提供免费翻译服务 En mi niit alilis lon pwal eu kapas? Sipwe angei emon chon chiaku ngonuk ese kamo. Kokori (808-369-3478) omw kopwe ureni kich meni kapas ka ani. Makemake `oe i kokua i pili kekahi `olelo o na `aina `e? Makemake la maua i ki`i `oe mea unuhi manuahi. E kelepona (808-369-3478) `oe ia la kaua a e ha`ina `oe ia la maua mea `olelo o na `aina `e. Masapulyo kadi ti tulong iti sabali a pagsasao? Ikkandakayo iti libre nga paraipatarus. Awaganyo ti (808-369-3478) tapno ibagayo kadakami no ania ti pagsasao nga ar-aramatenyo. 貴方は、他の言語に、助けを必要としていますか ? 私たちは、貴方のために、無料で 通訳を用意で きます。電話番号の、 (808-369-3478) に、電話して、私たちに貴方の話されている言語を申し出てください。 다른언어로 도움이 필요하십니까? 저희가 무료로 통역을 제공합니다. (808-369-3478) 로 전화해서 사용하는 언어를 알려주십시요 Kwoj aikuij ke jiban kin juon bar kajin? Kim naj lewaj juon am dri ukok eo ejjelok wonen. Kirtok (808-369-3478) im kwalok non kim kajin ta eo kwo melele im kenono kake. E te mana'o mia se fesosoani i se isi gagana? Matou te fesosoani e ave atu fua se faaliliu upu mo oe. Vili mai i le numera lea (808-369-3478) pea e mana'o mia se fesosoani mo se faaliliu upu. ¿Necesita ayuda en otro idioma? Nosotros le ayudaremos a conseguir un intérprete gratuito. Llame al (808-369-3478) y diganos que idioma habla. Kailangan ba ninyo ng tulong sa ibang lengguwahe? Ikukuha namin kayo ng libreng tagasalin. Tumawag sa (808-369-3478) para sabihin kung anong lengguwahe ang nais ninyong gamitin. ‘Okú ke fie maʻu tokoni ʻi ha lea fakafonua ʻe taha? Temau kumi haʻo taha fakatonulea taʻetotongi. Telefoni ki he (808-369-3478) ke fakahā mai ʻa e lea fakafonua ʻokú ke lea aí. คุณต้องการความช่วยเหลือทางด้านภาษาหรือไม่ ทางเราจะจัดหาล่ามฟรีให้คุณ โทรที่เบอร์ (808-369-3478) และบอกเราว่าคุณพูดภาษาอะไร Bạn có cần giúp đỡ bằng ngôn ngữ khác không ? Chúng tôi se yêu cầu một người thông dịch viên miễn phí cho bạn. Gọi (808-369-3478) nói cho chúng tôi biết bạn dùng ngôn ngữ nào Gakinahanglan ka ba ug tabang sa imong pinulongan? Amo kang mahatagan ug libre nga maghuhubad. Tawag sa (808-369-3478) aron magpahibalo kung unsa ang imong sinulti-han. Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawai‘i Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency Ke'ena Ho'omalu Pōulia O Hawai'i Search this site Search X icon Facebook icon DOD Home Home About Us About the Agency Leadership Organization Employment HI-EMA Highlights Talk Story Advisory Council Contact Us Contact Us Request a HI-EMA speaker FOIA / UIPA Get Ready Know Your Hazards Siren Status Map About Hurricane Shelters Alert Signup Types of Disasters What’s In Your Go-Kit? Prepare your Family Prepare your Home Prepare your Business Language Resource Hub Tsunami Evacuation Zones All-Hazard Statewide Outdoor Warning Siren System Boater’s Hurricane and Tsunami Safety Manual Nuclear Threat Newsroom News Releases Active State Emergency Proclamations All Emergency Proclamations Declared Disasters Dec. 2021 Hawaii Severe Storms, Flooding, And Landslides (DR-4639-HI) Hawaii Severe Storm, Flooding, and Landslide (DR-4604) Community Programs HHARP Events Request a HI-EMA speaker SERT Resources Plans Preparedness Resources WEB EOC Update SERT Contacts Emergency Proclamations Active State Emergency Proclamations All Emergency Proclamations COVID-19 Pandemic E-Order for Self-Quarantine 2021 Severe Weather/Flooding Events 2020 Kauai Severe Flood 2018 Kauai Flood 2018 – Eruption Maui Drought and Axis Deer Hazard Mitigation About Hazard Mitigation Hazard Mitigation Plans Hazard Mitigation Grants Disaster Related Grants Hazard Mitigation Program (HMGP) – 404 Grant Non-Disaster Grants State Hazard Mitigation Forum Sign Up for County Alerts Tsunami Evacuation Zones Jobs at HI-EMA Are You 2 Weeks Ready? Hurricane Preparedness FAQ Kuleana: HIEMA’s role in disaster preparedness in Hawaii What Does your 2 Weeks Ready Look Like Episodes 1- 15 James Barros – Administrator of Hawai’i Emergency Management Agency (HIEMA) Awareness, Education and Action is the Focus of Tsunami Awareness Month in Hawai‘i Tsunami Awareness Month in Hawai‘i Kicks Off Office of the Governor – News Release – Awareness, Education and Action: April is Tsunami Awareness Month in Hawaiʻi See the Tsunami News Conference from Governor Green’s Facebook page The Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency Presents The Tsunami Ambassadors Several Sacred Hearts Students have provided HI-EMA with a translated Tsunami Awareness Messages as well Mandarin Korean HI-EMA staff members are also offering our tsunami awareness message in a variety of languages. English Portuguese Tagalog Why Tsunami Awareness (Photos courtesy of NOAA) What should have been a routine weekday morning on April 1, 1946, turned tragic with no warning. As people in Hawai‘i awoke and got ready for work and school, an unwelcome visitor barreled its way toward the islands, triggered by a massive overnight earthquake off Alaska’s Aleutian Islands. Hilo would take the brunt of the “April Fools’ Tsunami,” with 158 deaths and damages in the millions. The tsunami also destroyed the Scotch Cap lighthouse on Unimak Island, Alaska, near the epicenter, killing its five occupants. Hawai‘i learned some deadly lessons about tsunamis and tsunami awareness that day, lessons which hold true today. That’s why the Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency (HI-EMA), and its federal, state and county partners observe every April as Tsunami Awareness Month, sharing those lessons to save lives in the future. This year’s focus is on Awareness, Education, and Action — knowing what a tsunami is, how to recognize the signs of an impending tsunami, and what to do before, during and after a tsunami occurs. Tsunamis can strike at any time; there is no “tsunami season.” They are often generated by earthquakes, but can be triggered by underwater volcanic eruptions and landslides or other powerful events as well. And a tsunami isn’t only one wave — it’s a series of waves. A roaring sound from the sea, strong earth shaking, or a suddenly exposed sea floor are all signs a tsunami may be arriving, even if warning sirens aren’t sounding. Don’t wait — get to higher ground immediately! After a tsunami, wait for an all-clear from authorities before home. Avoid debris, downed power lines and other hazards. “Get tsunami ready now!” HI-EMA Administrator James Barros exhorts. “Know your evacuation routes and make a plan.” How can you prepare? Pack a Go Bag of essential items such as food, water, clothes, medication, and important documents, in case you need to evacuate. Make a plan, which should include phone numbers and a meeting place if you get separated, and practice your plan with friends and family. (Remember those fire drills from small-kid-time? Same idea!) Tsunami Awareness Month is the time to become Aware, Educated and ready to take Action in the event of a tsunami in the Pacific The Hawai‘i Emergency Management Agency (HI-EMA) joins with our County partners, NOAA, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center, International Tsunami Warning Center, University of Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Department of Education and others to provide information to the public so you are Aware, Educated and ready to take Action in the event of this potentially devastating force of nature. HI-EMA produced a Public Service Announcement with quick tips on what to do if an earthquake strikes and how to react in the case a tsunami is generated. The PSA is available in a Hawaiian and English with a variety of other languages subtitled on YouTube. Use a link here to view the video. American Sign Language Chinese Chuukese English Hawaiian Ilocano Japanese Korean Marshallese Samoan Spanish Tagalog Vietnamese The Hawai‘i State Department of Education, Safety, Security, and Emergency Preparedness Branch produced a video presentation detailing Tsunami Awareness. Tsunami Awareness Video Current Tsunami Information The International Tsunami Information Center website maintains essential information about tsunami including: Hawai‘i information -Including Tsunami Facts for each county in a variety of languages Hawai‘i Tsunami Kids What to do? Vertical Evacuation Guides American Samoa Information Current Warnings Tools and Products World Tsunami Day And so much more! For current information on Tsunami Threats to Hawai‘i and the Pacific Region, NOAA maintains the U.S. Tsunami Warning System website: On the NOAA Tsunami Website You Will Find Current Information: FAQs NOAA Tsunami Program Tsunami Education and Outreach Materials The City and County of Honolulu Department of Emergency Management has a website on How Does a Tsunami Happen? Safety, Science, and How You Can Be Prepared The Tsunami Ambassadors from Saint Louis School visited KHON-TV April 19, 2024. See their interview here . Throughout April, HI-EMA and its partners will present “Talk Story” videos about tsunami and its potential consequences in Hawai‘i. Please return often to www.ready.hawaii.gov as we explore this powerful force of nature. HI-EMA Celebrates Mahina ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi (Hawaiian Language Month) 2024-080 Gov. Green Issues Ninth Proclamation Relating to Uncle Billy’s Hilo Bay Hotel Posted on October 30, 2024 in Emergency Proclamations , Information and News Releases , News Stories Read More 2024-080 Gov. Green Issues Ninth Proclamation Relating to Uncle Billy’s Hilo Bay Hotel 2024-079 Gov. Green Issues Seventeenth Proclamation Relating to Axis Deer Posted on October 30, 2024 in Emergency Proclamations , Information and News Releases , News Stories Read More 2024-079 Gov. Green Issues Seventeenth Proclamation Relating to Axis Deer 2024-078 Gov. Green Issues Thirteenth Proclamation Relating to Homelessness Posted on October 30, 2024 in Emergency Proclamations , Information and News Releases , News Stories Read More 2024-078 Gov. Green Issues Thirteenth Proclamation Relating to Homelessness 2024-078 MONTHLY SIREN AND EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM TEST FOR NOVEMBER 2024 Posted on October 29, 2024 in Information and News Releases , Main , News Stories Read More 2024-078 MONTHLY SIREN AND EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM TEST FOR NOVEMBER 2024 2024-077 Gov. Green Issues Fourth Proclamation Relating to Telecommunications Services on Hawaiian Home Lands Posted on October 25, 2024 in Emergency Proclamations , Information and News Releases , News Stories Read More 2024-077 Gov. Green Issues Fourth Proclamation Relating to Telecommunications Services on Hawaiian Home Lands Read More Entries from Information and News Releases Hawaii EMA Follow 15,275 42,277 Hawaii Emergency Management Agency's social media accounts not monitored 24/7. Call 9-1-1 for emergencies. ; Hawaii EMA @Hawaii_EMA · 8 Nov 1854996877181382722 Hosted by State of Hawaiʻi Office of Veterans Services on Sunday November 10, 10:30 to 11:30 am for Veterans Day Concert. Concert will be held at Kapiʻolani Park Bandstand Hope to see you there and thank you for your service and support. Twitter feed image. Reply on Twitter 1854996877181382722 Retweet on Twitter 1854996877181382722 2 Like on Twitter 1854996877181382722 1 Twitter 1854996877181382722 ; Hawaii EMA @Hawaii_EMA · 8 Nov 1854996586700460054 TEAMMATES SPOTLIGHT: HI-EMA will feature a team member twice a month - to celebrate our amazing teammates and recognize the unique strengths each brings to our team! #teamwork #kākoueffort #HIEMA2024 #appreciation Twitter feed video. Reply on Twitter 1854996586700460054 Retweet on Twitter 1854996586700460054 1 Like on Twitter 1854996586700460054 4 Twitter 1854996586700460054 ; Hawaii EMA @Hawaii_EMA · 7 Nov 1854587261993861588 HI-EMA invites you to North Shore Preparedness Fair this Saturday, Nov 09 - 10:00 am to 2:00 pm. Join us at Waialua Community Association Gym 66-434 Kamehameha Hwy, Hale ʻiwa, HI 96712 Twitter feed image. Reply on Twitter 1854587261993861588 Retweet on Twitter 1854587261993861588 2 Like on Twitter 1854587261993861588 3 Twitter 1854587261993861588 ; Hawaii EMA @Hawaii_EMA · 6 Nov 1854059787220115888 Flash Flood Warning for Kauai Island until 12:15 am HST Wednesday (11/6). More info at http://weather.gov/wwamap/wwatxtg… Reply on Twitter 1854059787220115888 Retweet on Twitter 1854059787220115888 3 Like on Twitter 1854059787220115888 9 Twitter 1854059787220115888 Load More Language Access Coordinator Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://dlnr.hawaii.gov/dobor/files/2013/04/web-final_hurricaneboatersmanual_7-01-13.pdf) ---
1
Hawai‘i Boater’s  
Hurricane and Tsunami
Safety Manual
H
A
W
A
II EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Acknowledgements
This manual would not have been possible without the assistance of Major General Darryll 
Wong from the State of Hawai‘i Department of Defense; Vice Director Doug Mayne, 
Shelly Kunishige, Kevin Richards, Galen Yoshimoto, and Julie Greenly from the State Civil Defense; Captain of the Port Joanna Nunan, Captain Barry Compagnoni, Lieutenant 
Commanders Scott Whaley, James Garland, and Matt Derrenbacher from the United States 
Coast Guard; Ed Underwood and Clifford Inn from the Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR) Division of Boating and Ocean Recreation; Ian Birnie and Jeff Prather from the Department of Transportation; Mel Kaku, Peter Hirai, and Robert Harter from the City and County of Honolulu, Department of Emergency Management; Ray Tanabe, Mike Cantin, and Tom Birchard from the National Weather Service; Dr. Charles McCreery and 
Dr. Gerard Fryer from the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center; Nicolás Arcos, Dr. Laura Kong, 
and Brian Yanagi from the International Tsunami Information Center; Dr. Walter Dudley and Jeanne Johnston from the Pacific Tsunami Museum; Robin Bond, Chris Woolaway, and Ward Graessle from the Hawai‘i Ocean Safety Team; Charles Barclay from Alamar Management; John Clark, editor/author of the original book; Donald Pybas, a national 
boating expert; Dolan Eversole, Bruce Hamakawa, Ruth Goldstein, Cindy Knapman, 
Heather Dudock, Dr. Darren Okimoto, and Dennis Hwang from the University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program (UH Sea Grant).
This manual was produced under contract with Hawai‘i State Civil Defense and funded in part 
by a grant/cooperative agreement from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Project A/AS-1, which is sponsored by the UH Sea Grant, SOEST, under Institutional Grant No. NA09OAR4170060 from NOAA Office of Sea Grant, Department 
of Commerce. The views expressed herein are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily 
reflect the views of State Civil Defense, the Division of Boating and Ocean Resources of the DLNR and NOAA or any of its subagencies. UNIHI-SEAGRANT-BB-13-01.
This manual is an update of the original Hawai‘i Boater’s Hurricane Safety Manual (UNIHI-
SEAGRANT-CR-97-03), published in 1998 for the Division of Boating and Ocean Resources of the DLNR by UH Sea Grant. 
April 2013
On the cover (left-right): Storm waves, O‘ahu’s north shore, photo courtesy of Dolan Eversole; Sailboat on the Breakwater 
at Magic Island, O‘ahu, photo courtesy of U.S. Coast Guard; March 2011 tsunami debris, photo courtesy of Hawai‘i State Civil Defense.
H
A
W
A
II EMERGENCY MANAGEMENTtAble  of contents
Introduction
Key Definitions
Part 1 Hurricane Information  
General Hurricane Information
 Origin  
 Season  
 Characteristics  
 Movement
General Precautionary Measures for Boaters  
Specific Precautionary Measures for Boat Owners
 T railered Boats
 Non-trailered Boats
 Boats Remaining in a Berth
 Boats Tied to an Offshore Mooring
 Boats Hauled Out of the Water
Hurricane Plan for Boat Owners
 Prior to Hurricane Season
 Prior to the Hurricane  
 During the Hurricane
 After the Hurricane
Hurricane Plan for Other Members of the Marine Community
 Prior to Hurricane Season
 Prior to the Hurricane  
 During the Hurricane  
 After the Hurricane
General Procedures for Processing Vessel ClaimsBoat Owner’s Hurricane Plan Worksheet
Remember These Important Points!  1
  2
  7
  8  8
  8
  810
10
1212
13
1314
14
1415
17
1919
21
2122
25
2527
30
324Part 2 Tsunami Information
General Tsunami Information  
Tsunami Warnings
 Distant Earthquak es
 Local Earthquak es
Tsunami Emergency Plan for Boat Owners
    Boat and Owner Preparedness
      Ev acuation Planning for a Tsunami Emergency
Boats at Sea During a Tsunami
Boats at Sea After a Tsunami
Part 3 Emergency Assistance Information
Important Phone Numbers
 State of Ha wai‘i (non-O‘ahu callers)
 City and County of Honolulu (island of O‘ahu)
 Maui County (islands of Maui, Moloka‘i, Läna‘i, and Kaho‘ola we)  
 Ha wai‘i County (island of Hawai‘i, the Big Island)  
 Kaua‘i County (islands of Kaua‘i and Ni‘ihau)
Important Radio Frequencies  
Hurricane Evacuation SheltersResources33
3436
36
3637
37
3942
43
45
46
46
46
46
47 
4748
48
491IntroductIon
Hurricanes are the most severe of all tropical cyclones and have great potential for 
widespread destruction in Hawai‘i. This was demonstrated in 1982 by Hurricane Iwa 
and in 1992 by Hurricane Iniki. Total damages in Hawai‘i from Iwa were estimated 
at $250 million and from Iniki at $2.4 billion. Hurricanes impact coastal areas in 
particular, especially harbors and marinas, where they cause widespread damage to boats and marine facilities. The Hawai‘i State Civil Defense and the University of 
Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program in cooperation with the Hawai‘i Department of 
Land and Natural Resources (DLNR), Division of Boating and Ocean Recreation have developed this manual to give Hawai‘i’s boaters the information they need to 
protect their lives and property when a hurricane or other severe storm threatens. The 
manual also includes a section on tsunamis, another serious threat to boaters and the marine community in Hawai‘i. 
Most hurricanes that impact Hawai‘i originate off the coasts of Central America or 
southern Mexico and then move in a west-northwest direction toward the Hawaiian 
Islands. Some hurricanes have formed to the south and southwest of Hawai‘i and 
have threatened the islands. Whatever their source, hurricanes often dissipate before they reach the islands or pass to the south, east, or west. Storms that do not strike the 
islands can still cause significant damage through high surf and heavy rain, which 
can cause flooding and landslides. On occasion, hurricanes strike Hawai‘i, causing considerable damage. Hurricane Iwa in 1982 and Hurricane Iniki in 1992 were 
especially destructive, causing billions of dollars in damage, especially on Kaua‘i. In 
addition to the considerable damage on land, boats in the harbors were hit hard, with many of them tossed onshore like toys and completely destroyed. In the aftermath of 
these great storms, many members of the boating community felt that they needed 
specific guidelines for action – especially since, with Hawai‘i sitting in the Central Pacific hurricane corridor, the probability of another hurricane striking the islands is 
great. Thus, the original version of this manual was published in 1998.
For boaters, tsunamis pose a similar threat as hurricanes, so it is appropriate to address 
the tsunami threat in this manual as well. The tsunamis of 1946 and 1960, from the Aleutian Islands and Chile respectively, were the most damaging of recent history. The 1946 tsunami delivered damaging waves to all the Hawaiian Islands, while the 1960 tsunami’s damage was concentrated along the shorefronts of Hilo and Kahului. 33
34
36
36
3637
37
3942
43
45
46
46
46
46
47 
4748
48
492Somewhat smaller was the tsunami from Japan in 2011, but even this was adequate to 
produce damage in all small boat harbors in the state. Currents produced by the 2011 tsunami were especially severe at Ke‘ehi Lagoon, where floating docks broke free and more than a hundred vessels were severely damaged or sunk.
This updated manual provides a summary of the actions boaters and other members of 
Hawai‘i’s marine community can take before, during, and after a hurricane or tsunami. It is intended to assist in preparing for and mitigating the effects of these hazards. It 
includes information on these events and their dangers, provides guidelines to develop 
a personal preparedness plan, and lists emergency assistance information (that is, phone numbers, radio frequencies, and hurricane evacuation shelter locations). The 
statements and procedures contained in this manual may be modified or supplemented 
to meet the specific needs of individual boat owners. It is intended that this manual complement state statutes, Hawai‘i administrative rules, county codes and ordinances, 
whose provisions shall prevail in the event of a conflict. 
key defInItIons
Category  
Classification of hurricane strength based on sustained wind speed in miles per hour. Category 1: 74 to 95 mph (64 to 82 knots); category 2: 96 to 110 mph (83 to 95 
knots); category 3: 111 to 129 mph (96 to 112 knots); category 4: 130 to 156 mph (113 to 136 knots); and category 5: 157 mph (137 knots) or greater. 
Gale Warning  
A warning of sustained surface winds, or frequent gusts, in the range of 39 to 54 mph 
(34 to 47 knots) inclusive, either predicted or occurring, and not directly associated 
with a tropical cyclone. See also Storm Warning.
High Surf Advisory/Warning  
The National Weather Service (NWS) now has a two-tiered system for high surf, 
with the criteria for advisory and warning varying by the coastal sector and island as 
described in the following table. 
3Advisory and Warning Criteria
All surf heights and forecasts are for the full face surf height, from the trough to the 
crest of the wave.
Hurricane 
A storm with distinct rotary circulation at the surface of the ocean with sustained 
winds of 74 mph (64 knots) or more.
Hurricane Warning  
Hurricane conditions (sustained winds of 74 mph or higher) are expected in the 
specified area of the warning, but the warning is called 36 hours before the expected arrival of the tropical storm winds (sustained winds of 39 to 73 mph). Complete 
hurricane preparations and implement your hurricane plan if directed by officials. 
When a Hurricane Warning is called, the sirens will sound and the warning will be broadcast by local media.
Hurricane Watch  
Hurricane conditions (sustained winds of 74 mph or higher) are possible in the 
specified area of the watch, but the watch is called 48 hours before the possible arrival 
of the tropical storm winds (sustained winds of 39 to 73 mph). During a watch, prepare your boat and review your emergency plan in case a hurricane warning is 
issued. Preliminary preparations should begin even before a watch has been issued. 
Small Craft Advisory 
A statement issued by the NWS when winds are, or expected to be between 29 and 38 
mph (25 and 33 knots), and/or when combined seas are, or expected to be 10 feet or greater, thereby producing conditions hazardous to small craft. Location Advisory Warning
North-Facing Shores – All Islands 15 ft. 25 ft.
West-Facing Shores – Big Island   8 ft. 12 ft.
West-Facing Shores – Remaining Islands 12 ft. 20 ft.
South-Facing Shores   8 ft. 15 ft.
East-Facing Shores   8 ft. 15 ft.4Squall 
A strong wind of sudden onset and short duration. 
Storm Surge 
An abnormal rise of water above the predicted astronomical tide caused partly by the 
low pressure of the storm and mostly by winds driving water onshore. On top of the 
astronomical tide and storm surge, there are waves, which give a Total Water Level during a hurricane that can inundate coastal areas, erode beaches and destroy shoreline 
roads, structures, boats, and marinas. 
Storm Warning  
A warning of sustained surface winds, or frequent gusts, in the range of 55 to 73 mph 
(48 to 63 knots) inclusive, either predicted or occurring, and not directly associated with a tropical cyclone. See also Gale Warning. 
Tropical Storm Warning 
Tropical storm conditions (sustained winds of 39 to 73 mph) are expected in the 
specified area of the warning, usually within 36 hours. 
Tropical Storm Watch 
Tropical storm conditions (sustained winds of 39 to 73 mph) are possible in the 
specified area of the watch, usually within 48 hours. 
Tornado  
A violently rotating column of air extending down from a cumulonimbus cloud or 
thunderstorm. 
Tropical Cyclone 
The general term for all cyclonic circulations (storms rotating counterclockwise in 
the northern hemisphere) originating over tropical waters and classified by form and 
intensity to include, in order of increasing strength, tropical depressions, tropical storms, and hurricanes. 
Tropical Cyclone Public Advisory  
Once a disturbance develops into a tropical cyclone (tropical depression, tropical 
storm, or hurricane), advisories are issued every six hours. The Tropical Cyclone 5Public Advisory contains a list of watches and warnings and provides information on 
the cyclone position in terms of latitude and longitude coordinates, the distance from 
a selected land point or island, as well as the current motion. The Public Advisory 
includes the maximum sustained winds and the estimated, or measured, minimum pressure. The Tropical Cyclone Forecast/Advisory contains similar information as the 
Public Advisory but also includes the cyclone’s position, intensity, and estimated wind 
fields for 12, 24, 36, 48, and 72 hours from the current time. Boaters should actively monitor advisories so that they can adequately prepare well in advance of a hurricane 
watch or warning. 
Tropical Depression  
A storm with distinct rotary circulation at the surface of the ocean with sustained 
winds of 38 mph (33 knots) or less. 
Tropical Disturbance 
A moving body of thunderstorms that maintains its identity for 24 hours or more. 
Tropical Storm 
A storm with distinct rotary circulation at the surface of the ocean with sustained winds of 39 to 73 mph (34 to 63 knots).
Tropical Weather Outlook  
During hurricane season, the National Weather Service issues a Tropical Weather 
Outlook four times daily, with the outlook assessing the genesis potential of tropical 
disturbances over the next 48 hours. 
Tsunami 
A series of ocean waves that are set in motion by great disturbances in the earth’s crust. These disturbances are normally earthquakes or natural events associated with 
earthquakes, such as volcanic eruptions and explosions that vertically displace the 
water column in the ocean. 
Tsunami Advisory  
A tsunami is expected, but will not be large enough to cause significant land flooding. 
Evacuation of the coast is not necessary, but the beach and coastal waters may be 
hazardous because of unusual waves and strong currents. Sirens will not sound, but 6beaches will be closed. The advisory will be continued until wave action falls below 
danger levels, which may take several hours. 
Tsunami Warning 
A damaging tsunami is expected and people should evacuate from the tsunami zones. 
When a warning is issued, sirens will sound and the warning will be broadcast by local 
media. Normally a warning is issued at least three hours before the tsunami arrives; the time the tsunami is to arrive is part of the warning and will be repeated by the 
media. The warning continues until wave heights have dropped below hazard levels, 
which may be more than 12 hours. After a damaging tsunami, the warning will be downgraded to an advisory as the threat decays, but the advisory may remain in effect 
six hours or more before being cancelled. See also, Urgent Local Tsunami Warning. 
Tsunami Watch
Issued if there is the potential for a damaging tsunami but the existence of a tsunami 
has not yet been confirmed. A Tsunami Watch will always be upgraded to a Tsunami Warning or a Tsunami Advisory or will be cancelled. If it is upgraded to a warning or 
advisory, that upgrade will occur with a target of at least three hours before the tsunami 
arrives. If you learn that a Tsunami Watch has been issued, tune to local television or radio for further information and prepare to evacuate in case the watch is upgraded to a 
warning. 
Urgent Local Tsunami Warning
Issued when there has been a major earthquake in the Hawaiian Islands and a 
damaging tsunami is likely within minutes to tens of minutes. If you feel ground shaking which is so severe that you have difficulty standing, take the shaking as a 
natural tsunami warning and move inland immediately; do not wait for the sirens to 
sound. If you feel shaking, even if it is not very severe, and the sirens sound within a minute or two, immediately leave the coastal area, preferably on foot. Tune to local 
television or radio once you are out of the evacuation zone. If you are on the water at 
dock, the compressional shock waves in the water from an earthquake will feel as if the hull has been hit or the boat has run aground. Evacuate the marina immediately. If you 
are on the water at sea, and an earthquake is felt, head to deeper water (over 300 feet). 
Water spout  
A tornado occurring over water. 7PArt 1
Hurricane Information
NOAA satellite image of Hurricane Iniki over Kaua‘i, September 11, 1992. The band of strong 
winds and rain surrounding the eye of the hurricane missed the more populated islands of O‘ahu, Maui, and Hawai‘i, as Iniki passed west of these areas.8General Hurricane Information
Origin 
Most Central Pacific hurricanes originate in the warm, 
tropical waters near the coasts of Central America or southern Mexico and then move west-northwest. 
Many of them dissipate as they encounter unfavorable 
atmospheric and oceanic conditions such as cooler water, 
but those that survive follow a conventional path that brings 
them across the Central Pacific toward the Hawaiian Islands. 
In Hawaiian waters, they usually pass below or south of the islands and tend to veer northwest below or beyond Kaua‘i. Fortunately, most of them remain far enough away to spare us their severe effects. Hurricanes also originate outside of the conventional corridor described above. Some of them form closer to Hawai‘i, while a few, like Iwa, even originate far to the southwest. 
Season 
The official hurricane season in Hawai‘i is from June 1 through November 30. Most Central Pacific hurricanes occur in July, August, and September, but they may occur as early as May and as late as December and may infrequently occur any time of the year. During some years, many hurricanes occur, whereas in others, few or none. The Central Pacific Hurricane Center in Honolulu issues a seasonal outlook, typically in May that forecasts the number of tropical cyclones that are expected to occur within the basin in the upcoming season. Regardless if the forecasts call for an active season or not, boaters should prepare every year before hurricane season because it only takes one hurricane to cause great devastation. 
Characteristics 
A hurricane is a type of tropical cyclone, an atmospheric disturbance that originates over warm tropical waters with winds that rotate in a counterclockwise direction. Tropical cyclones are classified by form and intensity and include tropical depressions, tropical storms, and hurricanes. When the sustained wind speed in a tropical cyclone reaches 74 miles per hour (64 knots), it is classified as a hurricane. 
9Stated simply, hurricanes are giant whirlwinds in which air moves in a large, 
tightening spiral around a calm center of extremely low pressure, the eye of the hurricane. In the Northern Hemisphere, the wind circulation is counterclockwise and reaches maximum velocity in a circular band extending outward 20 to 30 miles from the rim of the eye. Near the eye, winds may gust to more than 200 miles per hour (174 knots). Winds of 39 miles per hour (34 knots) and greater can extend 200 miles or more in all directions from the center of the hurricane. The entire storm dominates the ocean surface and lowers atmospheric pressure over thousands of square miles. 
The eye, within the spiral structure of the storm, is unique to hurricanes. In 
the eye, winds are light and skies are clear or partly cloudy. However, this is a deceptive calm, bordered as it is by maximum force winds and torrential rains. Many people have been injured or killed when they ventured out from a safe shelter during the calm of the hurricane’s eye, only to be caught in the maximum-force winds at the far side of the eye which blow in the opposite direction from the winds in the leading half of the storm. These winds are responsible for flying debris, one of the greatest dangers during a hurricane. 
Hurricanes are extremely dangerous because they combine the multiple effects 
of violent winds, torrential rains, abnormally high surf, and storm surge. Each of these weather phenomena alone is hazardous, but in combination they pose a serious threat to life and property. In Hawai‘i, hurricane winds, especially when accelerated by local terrain, are very damaging to all types of vegetation and structures. Hurricane rains can cause landslides and flash floods. High surf generated by hurricane winds reaches the islands while the storms are still several hundred miles away, causing dangerous conditions along the coast. When hurricanes approach or strike the islands, abnormally high, wind-driven surf inundates coastal areas, eroding beaches and destroying shoreline roads and structures. Storm surge from hurricanes presents a great danger to boaters and others in low-lying coastal areas. As a hurricane moves across a coastal area, it may create a storm surge that will make the ocean rise several feet or more above the normal high tide level, and if the storm surge is accompanied by high surf, coastal lowlands may be severely flooded and battered. 10Movement 
In their conventional corridor, hurricanes move to the west-northwest, pushed along by surface winds. In the Central Pacific they move slowly, usually 15 miles per hour or less, and are often stationary for short periods of time. Typical forward speed of a hurricane is from 11 to 14 miles per hour. As they move farther north from the equator, their forward speed tends to increase and at middle latitudes may exceed 50 miles per hour in extreme cases. Although hurricanes normally follow an established path that carries them to the south of Hawai‘i, their behavior can sometimes be erratic. It is this measure of unpredictability and the extended geographical effects of high surf, heavy rains, and landslides that necessitate taking precautionary measures when a tropical storm is in the Central Pacific. 
During hurricane season, the National Weather Service (NWS) maintains a 
constant watch over any tropical disturbance that could develop. The NWS’s Central Pacific Hurricane Center issues a Tropical Weather Outlook four times daily during hurricane season, with the outlook assessing the genesis potential for tropical disturbances over the next 48 hours. The probability of development will be stated to the nearest 10 percent for each area of interest. If a disturbance becomes a tropical depression, the NWS begins issuing advisories, which detail the tropical cyclone’s (TC) location, intensity, speed and direction of travel. Advisories are issued on a more frequent basis if the TC threatens any portion of the island chain. 
General Precautionary Measures for Boaters 
The key to protecting boats from hurricanes or any severe threatening weather is planning, preparation and timely action. The following precautionary measures are meant for use as guides only. Each boat owner needs a plan unique to the type of boat, the local boating environment and the weather conditions likely to occur in that region. The following preparatory and precautionary measures are issued as guidelines for use by the boating community. While these precautionary measures may not be applicable to everyone in all instances, it is anticipated that common sense and good judgment will prevail in determining which measures should be used. 111. Hurricane Plan. Your Hurricane Plan should be written. Prior to hurricane 
season, develop a detailed plan of action that includes: (a) securing your boat in the marina or harbor (if permitted), removing your boat from the marina or harbor, or taking your boat to a previously identified hurricane refuge; and (b) identifying and assembling equipment and supplies. Specific details and worksheets are provided later in this manual. Keep your Hurricane Plan with your equipment and supplies, and practice it before every hurricane season to ensure that it works, as access or other circumstances may change over time. Determine how valuable equipment will be removed from the boat and how long it will take to do it. You will need to have an accurate estimate of the time and work involved. 
2. Plan Implementation When You’re Away. Arrange for a knowledgeable friend (preferably a boater who is very familiar with your vessel and its state of readiness) to carry out your Hurricane Plan if you are out of town during hurricane season. If your vessel is moored in a state recreational boating facility and you are out of state, off island, or otherwise unable to immediately respond to an emergency related to your vessel for any length of time, you are required to have a caretaker serve in this capacity. 
3. Responsibilities. Check your lease or storage agreement with management personnel of the marina, harbor, or storage area. Know your responsibilities and liabilities as well as theirs. Make sure they have your most current contact information and the name and current telephone number of the person you have designated to care for your boat in your absence. 
4. Records. Consolidate your records, including copies of insurance policies; recent photos of your boat; boat registration; equipment inventory; lease agreement with the marina, harbor, or storage area; and telephone list of appropriate authorities such as the harbormaster, Coast Guard, and your insurance agent. Take them with you after securing your boat. You may need them after the hurricane when you return to check on your boat. 
5. Inventory. Keep a list of the items from your equipment inventory that you took off the boat. Items of value should be marked so they can be readily identified. 12Specific Precautionary Measures for Boat Owners 
In addition to the general precautionary measures which should be taken no matter 
where you plan to leave your boat during a hurricane or other severe weather, the following specific precautionary measures should be taken depending on the situation. 
Trailered Boats 
1. If your boat can be trailered a way from the shoreline and placed in a safe 
area, then part of your Hurricane Plan should be to identify the vehicle and 
the trailer to be used to move the boat. Be sure your tow vehicle is powerful enough to move your boat and your trailer and vehicle are in good working condition. Too often a flat tire or a broken axle will prevent an owner from moving a boat.
2. Once at a safe place, lash your boat to the trailer and place blocks between 
the frame members and the axle inside each wheel. Owners of light weight boats, after consulting with the manufacturer, may consider letting half the air out of the tires and then filling the boat one-third full of water to help hold it down. The blocks will prevent damage to the springs from the additional weight of the water.
3. Secure your boat with hea vy lines to fixed objects. Because hurricane 
winds rotate and change direction, try to pick a location that allows you to secure it from four directions. Anchors screwed in the ground can serve as fixed objects for your lines.6. Final Provisions. When a hurricane is impending and you have made your final anchoring, mooring, or storage provisions, remove all portable equipment such as canvas, sails, dinghies, radios, cushions, biminis, and roller furling sails. Lash down everything you cannot remove, such as tillers, wheels, and booms. Make sure the electrical system is shut off, unless you plan to leave the boat in the water. Remove the battery to eliminate the risk of fire or other damage, unless the battery is needed to run automatic bilge pumps. 13Non-trailered Boats 
Non-trailerable boats are usually large boats berthed in a marina, a harbor, or moored offshore. Owners need to select one of the following three options, each of which requires a different strategy, to protect their boat:
1. Secure the boat in its berth, or
2. Moor the boat in a pre viously identified safe area, or
3. Haul the boat out of the w ater.
Note that running from the hurricane is not listed as an option and is not recommended except for large commercial vessels.
Boats Remaining in a Berth 
1. Double all lines. Rig crossing spring lines fore and aft. Attach the lines high on 
the pilings to allow for the storm surge. Make sure the lines are secured and 
will not slip off the pilings. Inspect the pilings and choose those that seem the strongest and tallest and most properly installed.
2. Co ver all the lines at the contact points to prevent fraying as a result of chafing. 
Wrap the lines with tape, heavy plastic bottles, rubber hoses, or similar items. Install fenders to protect the boat from striking the pier, pilings, and other boats.
3. Assess the attachment of the primary cleats, winches, and chocks. They should 
have substantial back plates and be secured by adequate-sized bolts, preferably ones made of stainless steel.
4. Mak e sure batteries are fully charged and able to run automatic bilge pumps 
for the duration of the storm. Turn off or disconnect all electrical devices except the bilge pumps. When it is safe to return to your vessel, bring spare charged batteries to replace depleted ones to run the bilge pump, if necessary. 
5. Do not stay aboard. After you have secured the boat, leave the area and 
seek shelter in a safe haven. 14Boats Tied to an Offshore Mooring 
1. Double your anchor lines and set port and starboard anchors both fore and 
aft.
2. Co ver all the lines at the contact points to prevent fraying as a result of 
chafing. Wrap the lines with tape, heavy plastic bottles, rubber hoses, or 
something similar.
3. Assess the attachment of the primary cleats, winches, and chocks. They 
should have substantial back plates and be secured by adequate-sized bolts, preferably ones made of stainless steel.
4. Mak e sure batteries are fully charged and able to run automatic bilge pumps 
for the duration of the storm. Turn off or disconnect all electrical devices except the bilge pumps. When it is safe to return to your vessel, bring spare charged batteries to replace depleted ones to run the bilge pump, if necessary.
5. Do not stay aboard. After you have secured the boat, go ashore and seek 
shelter in a safe haven. 
Boats Hauled Out of the Water 
1. Determine the safest ha ven for your boat and make arrangements to move 
it there. When selecting a safe location, be sure to consider whether storm surge could rise into the area.
2. Where ver you choose to locate your boat for the duration of the hurricane, 
lash your boat to its cradle or trailer with heavy lines and consider, based on the weight of the boat, adding water to the bilge to help hold it down.
3. Ne ver leave your boat in davits or on a hydro lift. 
Hurricane Plan for Boat Owners 
All boat owners should take the time and effort to develop a Hurricane Plan to protect themselves and their property. Marine-related facilities, service 15organizations, and insurance companies consider it reasonable to expect boat 
owners to take necessary actions to secure and protect their boats. The following information should be considered when developing a Hurricane Plan. 
Prior to Hurricane Season
1. Mak e sure your vessel is in sound condition. This includes the hull, deck 
hardware, rigging, ground tackle, machinery, and electronics. Absentee 
owners should arrange for a boatyard haul-out or a supervised inspection of the boat prior to hurricane season. The inspection should include making sure that the batteries are charged, the bilge pumps are operational, and all equipment is secured.
2. Enhance the w atertight integrity of your boat, both above and below the 
water line. Seal portlights, deadlights, companion ways, and hatches using duct tape if necessary. Shut sea cocks and cap off or plug un-valved through-hull fittings such as sink drains.
3. Inspect the v essel’s deck hardware in light of planned mooring 
arrangements. Assess the size and structural attachment of the primary chocks, cleats, bitts, bollards, and winches. These high load/high-stress points should have substantial backing plates and should be secured with bolts of adequate size.
4. Gi ve special attention to the mooring lines to prevent them from chafing. 
Consider using a double neoprene hose, a proven example of successful chafing gear, or a fire hose.
5. Use double lines for storm moorings, whether at dock or otherwise. The 
second set of lines should be a size larger than the normal lines, including spring lines at a dock.
6. Purchase necessary materials – such as additional lengths of mooring lines, 
screw anchors, fenders, fender boards, chafing gear, and anchors-ahead of time. These items may not be readily available during the hurricane season or just prior to a hurricane.167. If the boat is to be unattended during the hurricane season, haul it into a  
storage yard or leave it on its trailer. If the boat is not trailerable, arrangements 
should be made for wet storage at a marina or harbor.
8. Mak e up an inventory of all vessel equipment as part of your Hurricane 
Plan. Note the items that are to be removed from the boat if you have to implement the plan. 
9. F or wet berthing locations, ensure that seawalls and docks are sound, mooring 
bitts and cleats secure, and dock pilings and dolphins in good condition.
10. At pri vate berthing and dock facilities in residential areas, coordinate safety 
and mooring plans with neighbors and other boat owners in the area.
11. Get copies of harbor or marina f acilities’ own hurricane plans and procedures 
for boats at their facilities and keep them with your personal Hurricane Plan. Check with the local Civil Defense or Emergency Management offices for copies of preparedness information.
12. If your Hurricane Plan calls for mo ving your boat from its current berthing 
location, rehearse your planned boat movement, including an actual visit to the alternate docking, mooring, or anchoring location.
13. If your plan calls for mo ving your boat from its current berthing location to 
an inland waterway, know your boat’s navigation requirements, including bar and bridge restrictions at different tides.
14. Mak e a list of reputable salvage operators and repair facilities in your area. 
Include the list in your Hurricane Plan.
15. Be sure that your f amily and crew members are familiar with your Hurricane 
Plan in advance and how they can contact you or your designated representative or agent.
16. Mak e sure that your plan includes a quick response to protecting your boat 17if a hurricane watch is announced. Moving a boat, stripping sails, derigging, 
and anchoring in high winds and stormy seas may be extremely difficult and at times impossible.
17. Mak e copies of your Hurricane Plan with inventory of equipment and keep 
one on the boat, one at home, and, if appropriate, a third copy at the office.
18. Mak e sure the insurance policy on your boat is current. Read the policy 
thoroughly. It should contain some helpful information in regard to your actions if your boat does sustain hurricane-related loss or damage. Be sure you understand what is covered and what is not and your duties as a boat owner. 
19.    A large number of boat owners are homeowners. Your Hurricane Plan 
should have enough preparation time to implement protection measures for your boat, family, and home. This will require preparation before Hurricane Season and prior to a Hurricane Watch. Monitor Tropical Cyclone Public and Tropical Cyclone Forecast Advisories (in Key Definitions section). See the Homeowner’s Handbook to Prepare for Natural Hazards (in Resources 
section).
Prior to the Hurricane 
1. If your plan calls for mo ving your boat, do it before or as soon as a 
Hurricane Watch is issued by the National Weather Service. A Hurricane Watch is issued when hurricane conditions pose a possible but uncertain threat to a specific coastal area within 48 hours. If you do move your boat, make sure of the following: 
 Fuel tanks are full, 
 Fuel filters are clean, 
 Batteries are charged, 
 Bilges are clean, 
 Cockpit drains are free and clear, 
 Fire-fighting equipment is operational, 
 Lifesaving equipment is accessible and in good condition, and
 Marine band radio, if installed, is in proper working order. 182. If your plan does not call for mo ving your boat, remove or secure all deck 
gear, portable gear, portable radios, radio antennas, outriggers, fighting 
chairs, deck boxes, bimini tops and side canvas/curtains, sails, booms, dorades, extra halyards, canister rafts, and dinghies. Make sure you secure all hatches, ports, companionways, lazarettes, and sailboat rudders. Remember that you may need the dinghy to take line ashore. Consider minimizing the amount of fuel in your gas tanks and placing absorbent pads in the bilge and around the engine to reduce the release of HAZMAT materials should a breach occur.
3. When remo ving equipment from the vessel, remember to remove the 
Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon (EPIRB) (if equipped) to avoid making an unintended false distress call to the U.S. Coast Guard. Be sure to keep the EPIRB readily accessible to place back on board when you’re ready to get the boat underway again.
4. M onitor VHF Radio Channel 16 or go to http://homeport.uscg.mil/honolulu 
 to stay a ware of U.S. Coast Guard Captain of the Port Safety Zones that may 
 ha ve been established restricting access to port. Those without Internet or 
 VHF access can also call the USCG Command Center at 1-800-552-6458.
5. Where ver your boat is moored, assume that it will be subject to storm surge 
that is 5 to 10 feet greater than normal tidal movement and adjust your lines accordingly. High surf and hurricane surge will precede the estimated time of arrival of the hurricane. For boats in rivers or canals, the best mooring location is in the center of the river or canal where double mooring lines can be secured to both shores, port and starboard, fore and aft.
6. Do not raft boats together at moorings or docks, especially if lar ger and 
smaller boats are involved. The probability of damage to the boats is greater than if they are moored singly.
7. If the boat must remain dockside at a harbor or marina, use or install 
heavy duty fender boards (2" X 6") on a bare center piling to prevent or at least reduce damage. Lines should be doubled or even tripled where 19necessary to hold a boat in the center of a berth or off a seawall or dock 
pilings.
8. Do not attempt to mo ve your boat once a Hurricane Warning has been issued. 
 Lea ve your boat and initiate protective actions for yourself and your family. A 
 Hurricane Warning is issued when the National Weather Service expects 
 hurricane force winds, b ut is announced when tropical storm winds (39 to 73 
 mph) are e xpected within 36 hours or less to give the public more time to prepare. 
During the Hurricane 
1. Do not stay aboard the boat during a hurricane. If you ha ve taken all the 
precautionary measures in your Hurricane Plan, you have done all that can be done in anticipation of the storm.
2. Stay in a protected place or designated shelter . Attend to the safety of your 
family, your home, and other personal property.
3. Stay tuned to ne ws broadcasts and weather advisories concerning the 
hurricane so you will know when the danger has passed. 
After the Hurricane 
1. Check your boat as soon as possible after the all clear announcement is 
made. Be aware that there may be extensive damage in the area and that you may not be able to reach your boat due to downed power lines, blocked roads, and flooding in low-lying areas. Consider taking a spare battery just in case the one powering your bilge pump is depleted.
2. If you moored your boat in a ri ver where it was blocking traffic, move it as 
soon as possible. If other boats cannot navigate past you, their operators may cut your mooring lines and let your boat drift, possibly causing more damage than the hurricane.
3. If your boat w as damaged, be sure to check for fuel leaks or the odor of fuel.
4. If your boat w as damaged and its security breached, take action to re-secure 20it as soon as possible. Looters will take advantage of any damaged boat if 
given the opportunity.
5. Report an y non-storm-related theft, vandalism, or damage to a boat to the 
police or the appropriate law enforcement agency. Record the incident number and obtain a copy of the report as soon as possible to substantiate insurance claims or Internal Revenue Service (IRS) property loss reports.
6. If your v essel, or any other vessel you observe has spilled oil, fuel, or other 
chemicals into the water, make an immediate report to the National Response Center by calling 1-800-424-8802 or make your report online at www.nrc.uscg.mil. 
7. If the boat w as damaged, take immediate action to save the boat and its 
equipment and to prevent further loss or damage. This action on the part of the boat owner is a requirement of all insurance policies. Boat owners are expected to take those actions that prudent uninsured persons would take to save their property. Take photographs of the damage once the boat is secured.
8. If the boat appears to be unrepairable and a total loss, mak e arrangements 
to remove the hull from any navigable waterway as required by government authorities. Your boat should be hauled to a storage yard or salvage facility. Take photographs of the damage before the boat is moved.
9. If salv age removal of your boat is required, emergency or otherwise, 
and you are unable to contact your insurance agent or the harbor or marina representative, screen the salvage contractor for competence and evaluate his estimated cost. Read the contract carefully and know where your boat is going and how secure the site is. Before the boat is hauled away, remove as much equipment as you can, make an itemized list of the equipment that remains, and take photographs of the damage.
10. When damage to your boat is repairable, mak e immediate arrangements to 
have the boat moved to a reputable repair yard. Obtain estimates and agree on the work to be done before authorizing the repairs. 21Hurricane Plan for Other Members of the Marine Community 
Harbor and marina operators, boat builders, boat dealers, and boat repair yards 
should consider the following information in developing a Hurricane Plan for their facilities. 
Prior to Hurricane Season 
1. De velop a written Hurricane Plan and distribute it to all employees. 
Because facility personnel will have their own family and property concerns 
to attend to, they must be made aware of their work-related responsibilities so they can plan accordingly. 
2. Kno w your physical plant facilities, operational services, equipment, 
and standard operating procedures. Make assignments of personnel to be responsible for areas and operations of the facility. Designate team units and key people to manage them. 
3. Re view your Hurricane Plan with co-tenants and subcontractors in 
multiple occupancy facilities. 
4. Re view your facility’s operations during the hurricane season and consider 
ordering supplies, stocks, and boating inventory items accordingly to keep exposure damage to a minimum. 
5. Consider the number of permanent, transient, ne w, or brokered boats that 
you may be responsible for at any time during the hurricane season. In the event of an approaching hurricane, you will need to determine how you and your staff can secure these boats in place or move them to a safer inland site. 
6. K eep a current list of all the boats in your care and their owners, captains, 
or caretakers, including their home and business phone numbers and addresses. Consider requiring boat owners to file a Hurricane Plan with you. 
7. Conduct a complete f acility housekeeping field day sometime in the spring 
or just prior to the start of hurricane season to clean up all open areas 22and structures within your facility. The cleanup should include but not be 
limited to the following: 
a.   Removing all debris, trash, and unnecessary items from open areas 
b.   Storing or securing all materials and supplies c.   Servicing, as necessary, building walls, roofs, windows, doors, 
docks, piers, wharfing, slip fingers, pilings, electrical and lighting installations, fuel and natural gas supply and equipment, portable and fixed fire-fighting equipment, mobile lifts, hydro lifts, and railways. 
8. Order and stock e xtra equipment and supplies for emergencies, including 
mooring lines, lumber for fender boards, chafing gear, screw anchors, nails, hoses and clamps, oil absorbent pads, flashlights, batteries, portable generators, electrical and manual bilge pumps, and hull-patching supplies.
9. T est all equipment that may be used during an emergency–  such as 
portable generators and pumps.
10. Consider ha ving one event per year (workshop, fair, seminar, etc.), before 
the beginning of hurricane season on June 1, to educate boaters on best practices, preparation tips and harbor/marina plans, policy, and practices. Information disseminated should be correct and up-to-date. 
Prior to the Hurricane Even the smallest marine facility has numerous tasks to perform in preparation for a hurricane. However, 72 hours is probably the minimal time needed in most instances for a facility owner or administrator to undertake the following. 
48 to 72 Hours Prior 
1. Notify f acility employees that they should begin implementing their 
Hurricane Plan. 
2. Consider terminating acti vities of all mobile or waterborne operations, if 
any, within 24 hours. 233. Initiate f acility protection procedures by removing or securing all loose 
items and equipment in open areas. 
4. Secure all flammable, e xplosive, and other hazardous materials such as 
compressed gas cylinders in a protected structure. 
5. Consider relocating small boats on dry storage or outside racks or on 
trailers to safer locations under cover. Facilities with inside rack storage 
may provide sufficient protection unless they are situated in a low-lying area that is subject to storm surge inundation. 
6. T ake down large signs, antennas, or other removable items that could be 
subject to wind damage. 
7. Install storm shutters and other protecti ve equipment.
8. Process and mail all paperw ork that can be completed immediately. Set 
aside new paperwork to be completed after the hurricane. 
9. T ransport expensive equipment or products to inland storage sites. 
10. Reduce in ventories as much as possible and delay ordering materials, 
stocks, or supplies. 
11. Be gin contacting boat owners or their representatives to remove their 
boats, if required. 
36 to 48 Hours Prior 
1. Complete the follo wing facility-protection measures: 
a.   Lock all structures, including trailers. b.   Turn off electricity at the main power switch. c.   Turn off natural gas at the main valve. 
d.   Top off tanks of facility boats and vehicles, and then turn off fuel  
supply tanks at the main valve. 24e.   Disconnect electric motors, pumps, and similar equipment below   
      ground level and remove to a safe location. 
f.   Turn off water supply at the meter. 
2. Complete boat remo val operations and secure remaining boats. 
3. Place forklifts, trucks, tra vel lifts, mobile cranes, and workboats in 
protected structures, if possible. 
0 to 36 Hours Prior 
During the 36-hour period prior to the projected arrival of the hurricane, a Hurricane Warning will be issued. The following activities should be in progress or nearing completion so that personnel can be released within the final 12 hours, 
if not sooner. 
1. Complete v essel-protection and securing operations with a final check 
of doubled mooring lines, which should be tied off with sufficient slack 
and fender boards and other protective equipment in place. 
2. Release emplo yees who are not required to staff facilities during the 
hurricane no later than 12 hours prior to the projected time of arrival. Instructions for reporting to work after the hurricane should be given before they leave. Determine where in the facility all remaining employees 
will take shelter. 
3. Complete f acility preparations 12 hours prior to the hurricane’s arrival. 
Make sure that all perimeter access points in the form of fences, gates, and 
building doors are locked and secured. 
4. Do not allo w any personnel to stay on any vessel during the hurricane. 
5. Ev acuate all personnel from the facilities, if so directed by Civil Defense 
or Emergency Management officials. 25During the Hurricane
1. Stay in a safe and protected place, inland if possible. Mo ving to high ground 
outside an evacuation or flood zone is recommended and is safer than moving 
to a high area within these zones. For the rare instances where facilities must 
remain staffed, personnel should have engineered protection from the wind, 
rain, and storm surge and should remain inside during the hurricane. 
2. Do not attempt to mo ve or re-secure a loose boat or piece of equipment. 
3. Stay tuned to ne ws and weather broadcasts concerning the hurricane’s 
movement so you will know when the danger has passed. 
4. Do not v enture out during any lull or calm as the eye of the hurricane passes. 
After the Hurricane 
1. Be a ware that the hurricane may have caused extensive damage, including 
widespread flooding, washed out roads and bridges and downed power lines–all of which may prevent you from accessing your facility. 
2. Alert personnel returning to the f acility to begin the damage assessment 
process to be aware of the following: 
a.   Poisonous insects that may have crawled into unexpected places. 
Wear boots and gloves while working outside the facility.
b.   Downed power lines that still may be live. Avoid all downed 
  lines until the electric company troubleshooter disconnects 
  them. Be aware that lines that appear dead may be live if they are  
connected to a generator. 
c.   Natural gas leaks. Check for natural gas leaks by smell only, not 
  with matches or candles. 
d.   Fuel leaks. Check facility fueling docks and fuel tanks for leaking 
  gasoline or diesel fuel. 
e.   Electrical equipment. Do not start any electrical equipment 
  that was submerged in water until it has been checked or repaired.      
 This includes electrical appliances such as hot plates, toasters, and  
  calculators. 26f.   Broken sewer or water mains. Report the breaks to the appropriate  
      utility company. g.   Electrical wiring. Check all of the facility’s wiring completely before 
turning on the main power switch.
3. Prepare a written assessment of the damages and tak e photographs of 
them as soon as possible. Estimate damages to docks, piers, and other harbor facilities, including cranes, mast hoists, boat sheds, toilets, showers, lockers, offices, and fuel docks.
4. If an y theft, vandalism, or damage other than that caused by the hurricane 
has occurred, report it to the police or other appropriate authorities. Record the incident report number and obtain a copy of the report as soon as possible to help substantiate any insurance claim or IRS property loss report. 
5. Carefully document and photograph immediate repairs made prior to an 
insurance adjustment. In the case of facility property damages, appraisers assigned by the insurance companies will be involved with the adjustment and will establish temporary claim offices.
6. Be a ware that the facility will receive calls from vessel owners, captains, 
caretakers, and others with boating interests. 
This boat was destroyed and beached in front of the Sheraton at Black Rock at Ka‘anapali Beach, Maui, by Hurricane Iniki in 1992. Photo courtesy of Ward Graessle.
27General Procedures for Processing Vessel Claims 
If your boat is insured and damages occurred during a hurricane, a report of 
loss and/or damage should be made to your insurance agent or to the insurance company as soon as possible. A telephone call should suffice to initiate the claim. Then follow up the call with a brief written report that includes the following: 
• The exact location of the boat, including information on whether it is 
partially or totally submerged. 
• The structural condition of the boat, including an estimate of the 
percentage of damage, a description of the damage, and photographs of the damage. 
• Information on whether the boat must be removed immediately and, 
if so, to what location. 
With all the confusion that follows in the aftermath of a hurricane, insurance companies will settle first those claims that have the appropriate paperwork completed and in hand. After you have made the initial notification to your insurance company, take the steps listed below to assist in processing your claim. Take these steps as quickly as possible to expedite getting your boat repaired as soon as possible. 
1. If your boat is still in a precarious situation, stabilize it to pre vent further 
damage. 
2. Do not perform repairs other than those necessary to pre vent further 
damage. 
3. Photograph the damage to your boat. 
4. Mak e a list of all damages and suspected problems. 
5. Contact repair yards to get estimates. You do not have to wait for an 
adjuster/survey or to get estimates. 28In order to process claims, insurance companies will send surveyors and adjusters 
into the area to work with you and other policy holders. In locations designated as disaster areas, claim offices will be setup and staffed with teams of insurance personnel to expedite the processing of large numbers of claims. Locations of the claim offices should be available through the local media and civil defense and emergency management offices. In your dealings with the insurance companies, remember the following: 
1. Y ou will need to file a statement of loss explaining what, when, why, 
where, and how it all took place. Your statement should include copies of your list of damages, photographs, and sketches, if necessary. 
2. An adjuster , insurance company surveyor, or independent surveyor 
acceptable to the insurance company will be instructed to survey the damage to your boat. Make sure you accompany the surveyor on the initial damage survey.
 
3. Y ou should have your inventory list, receipts, pictures of damages, and 
repair estimates ready for inspection by the adjustor/surveyor. 
4. After conducting the surv ey, the surveyor will file a damage report with 
the insurance company. Request that a copy also be sent to you. 
5. If you are not satisf ied with the damage report results and are not able 
to resolve the differences with the insurance company, you may elect to hire another surveyor at your own expense for a second opinion. Your surveyor will then represent you in any mediated discussions that follow. 
6. If you agree with the insurance compan y’s damage estimates and the 
company designated to do the repairs, the insurance company will proceed with the payment for repairs. It will issue a check with both the repair company’s name and your name as payees. 
7. When the w ork is completed to your satisfaction, you sign the check and 
the repair company gets paid. 298. If your boat is declared a total loss, the insurance compan y will issue a 
check to you, usually for the boat’s fair market value as agreed upon by 
you and the company. 
9. Be prepared to surrender the boat’ s documentation papers, original 
insurance policy, and remaining equipment, as well as the boat itself. 
Storm surge from a hurricane is one of the greatest dangers to boats and marinas. It destroys structures and pushes boats inland.  Hurricane Sandy in 2012 damaged or destroyed more than 65,000 boats on the east coast. Photo courtesy of Dennis Hwang. 
30Boat Owner’s Hurricane Plan Worksheet 
After reading the material in this manual, use this worksheet to develop a 
Hurricane Plan for your boat. Be sure to distribute copies to your alternates as well as your harbor manager. 
Name:  
Address:  
City:    State:     Zip Code:  
Phone Day:    Night:     Cellular:
Have boat keys?    Access to hurricane equipment?  
Name:  
Address :  
City:    State:     Zip Code:  
Phone Day:    Night:     Cellular:
Have boat keys?    Access to hurricane equipment?  Boat’s name:  
Vessel registration #: In Hawai‘i (HA#)                        or USCG document#
Length:      Make/Model:                    Hull Color: 
Boat’s current location:            Harbor:             Ro w/Pier:            Slip#:
Boat’s location during hurricane:  
Your name:  
Address:  
City:   State:    Zip Code:  
Phone Day:    Night:                 Cellular:
Two Alternative Contacts (if you are not available)
Storage Options 
Is boat already stored ashore?  
If No, what arrangements have been made for hauling?   
Storage location:  
If at dock:    Slip #:  
Additional lines:     No.:     Length:   Size:  
Additional chain:   No.:     Length:   Size:  31If at a Mooring/Anchorage
List All Equipment Needed Aboard to Prepare Boat
List All Equipment to be Removed from BoatEquipment   Curr ent Location
Equipment   Stor age Location HURRICANE PLAN
FINAL CHECKLISTChafe gear:    Fenders:  
Has mooring been inspected within the last six months?  
How will the boater get ashore?  
Type of bottom:       Depth:  
Mooring line should be extended       to increase scope.
Additional anchors needed: No.:       Size:  
Type(s):  
Additional lines:    No.:    Length:   Size: 
Additional chain:   No.:     Length:   Size:  
Chafe gear:    Swi vel:     Shac kle(s):  
1. Extra lines   
2. Chafe protectors   
3. Fenders     
4. Anchors     
5. Swivels     
6. Shackles     
7. Duct tape     
8. Plugs (exhaust ports)
1. Electronics
2. Dinghy3. Outboard/fuel4. Sails5. Bimini6. Galley fuel7. Ship’s papers8. Emergency Position      Indicating Radio      Beacon (EPIRB)9. Distress flares
    Other • Arrange dock/anchor 
   lines• Add chafe protection
• Use extra fenders/fender 
   boards as needed• Insert plugs in engine    ports• Strip bimini, sails, life    rings, etc.
• Disconnect shore power
• Close all but the cockpit    sections• Lock boat• Notify harbor manager
• Plug all through-hull 
   ports
10.32Remember These Important Points! 
1. De velop your Hurricane Plan now. You alone are responsible for this.
2. Mak e all emergency plans for moving and securing your boat prior to 
hurricane season (June 1 to November 30).
3. Do not stay on your boat or attempt to mo ve it after a Hurricane Warning 
has been issued. Rescue agencies will not risk the lives of their personnel to 
assist you or other careless boaters during a hurricane.
4. Do not become a hurricane statistic! Your life is more valuable than your boat.
5. Do not be fooled by the lull or calm as the e ye of the hurricane passes. The 
second half of the storm will strike soon with full intensity.
6. Consult the Ci vil Defense section of your phone book for shoreline 
evacuation zones.
7. Stay tuned to all broadcasts and of ficial announcements of the hurricane’s 
status.
8. Do not return to your boat until the hurricane has passed and an of ficial 
 announcement indicates that it is safe to do so. DLNR will not be the agenc y  
 issuing the announcement.
This was a common 
sight in the small boat harbors in Kaua‘i after Hurricane Iniki struck in 1992.  Picture taken at Näwiliwili Small Boat Harbor. Photo courtesy of Ward Graessle.
33PArt 2
Tsunami Information
April 1, 1946 – Hilo, Hawai‘i. A magnitude 8.6 earthquake near the Aleutian Islands of Alaska 
generated a large tsunami causing death and destruction on all the Hawaiian Islands. In this photo, the tsunami wave breaks over Pier No. 1 in Hilo Harbor. The arrow points to a man as one of the 159 identified fatalities in Hawai‘i. The photo was shot from a ship that later managed to escape to open sea. Photo courtesy of NOAA/NGDC and the Pacific Tsunami Museum.34General Tsunami Information
A tsunami is a series of ocean waves set in motion by a rapid 
change in the shape of the ocean bottom over a large area. By 
far the most common reason for this change is an earthquake, 
though landslides, volcanic activity, and meteorite impacts 
can also cause tsunamis. 
Tsunamis are sometimes incorrectly called “tidal waves,” because 
the surge and withdrawal may resemble rapidly rising or falling tides. 
Tsunami waves may come ashore as a “bore,” a vertical wall of water, superficially resembling the tidal bores observed in regions with very large tides, such as the Bay of Fundy, the Amazon River and the Turnagain Arm (Cook Inlet, Alaska). Tsunamis have nothing to do with tides, however, and they differ from true tidal waves in three very important respects. First, unlike tidal waves, which can be forecast months in advance, tsunamis occur at random, unpredictable times. Second, a tsunami is a succession of waves rather than a single wave. The false expectation that a tsunami is over after the first wave has resulted in considerable loss of life, even in Hawai‘i. Third, tsunami waves proceed as ordinary gravity waves with a typical period of five to 60 minutes, while the period of tides is 12 hours. Consequently, the time of the flooding is drastically different. 
There is no tsunami season. A tsunami is an unpredictable event that can happen at 
any time. Most tsunamis that strike the Hawaiian Islands are generated in the oceanic trenches around the border of the Pacific Ocean. The unstable areas are the Pacific Coast of Japan, the Kuril-Kamchatka Island chain, the Aleutian Island Arc, and the Pacific Coasts of Central America and South America.
It is important to note that a tsunami can be dangerous for several hours and the first 
wave is often not the largest of the series.  A tsunami has great destructive potential and is capable of quickly inundating (or flooding) areas thousands of feet inland past the normal high tide level. Their fast-moving waters can crush cars, homes, buildings, boats, and anything else in their path. They also have great erosional potential, stripping beaches of sand and undermining trees and other coastal vegetation. 
35In Hawai‘i, tsunamis have caused death and destruction on all the major islands. The 
town of Hilo has been hardest hit in historic times with destruction to major parts of the city in both 1946 and again in 1960. Both of these tsunamis were generated by earthquakes along the Pacific Rim: the 1946 tsunami from the Aleutian Trench that impacted mainly the northeast shores of our islands, and the 1960 tsunami from the Peru-Chile Trench that impacted mainly the southeast shores of our state. The 1946 event resulted in 159 deaths, with casualties on every major island. 
Tsunami waves generated by the 2011 Tohoku magnitude 9.0 earthquake, caused 
significant damage to Hawai‘i’s recreational boat harbors with the loss of dozens of vessels and damage to countless more. A tsunami in Hawai‘i can also be generated by a nearby as well as a distant earthquake. This is especially true on Hawai‘i Island where earthquakes occur in association with the volcanic activity at Kïlauea and Mauna Loa. Any violent earthquake–one that causes you to fall to the ground or to hold onto something to keep from falling–should be considered a natural tsunami warning. If in a low-lying area, you should move immediately to higher ground or evacuate vertically to the third floor or higher of a reinforced concrete building that is at least six stories in height. 
In 1975, two campers at Halapë campground, a coastal area in Hawai‘i V olcanoes 
National Park, were killed by a tsunami generated by a magnitude 7.7 earthquake immediately offshore. The earthquake shook the campsite severely and gave the campers only a few minutes to evacuate before the tsunami came on shore, rising to 26 feet above sea level. Farther south, the tsunami damaged the coastal villages of Punalu‘u and Honu‘apo, though, fortunately, no lives were lost. The 1975 event was a repeat of a similar earthquake and tsunami which hit the same coast in 1868.
In general, all coastal areas of the Hawaiian Islands are vulnerable to inundation by 
a tsunami. 
“As tsunami waves approach islands, they encounter shallower depths which cause the waves to bend or refract. The bending (refraction) means that tsunami waves may wrap completely around an island causing inundation even on the side of the island farthest from the area of tsunami generation. Tsunami wave refraction may result in smaller waves in some areas and larger waves in other areas. Tsunami waves may also be reflected off coastal 36areas with steeply sloping shorelines. These reflected waves may combine 
with incoming, refracted, or other reflected waves to produce large wave run-up in unexpected places. No matter where a tsunami is generated, all sides of our islands are at risk.” - The Pacific Tsunami Museum 
Tsunami waves can be amplified where a bay, harbor, or lagoon funnels the wave as it moves inland.  
Please refer to the Disaster Preparedness Guide in front of the telephone book for 
maps of the coastal evacuation zones (Maps are also available online at: http://www.csc.noaa.gov/psc/riskmgmt/tsunami.html and http://www.scd.hawaii.gov/). Determine whether you live, work, play, transit, or go to school in an evacuation zone and develop a Tsunami Evacuation Plan for you, your family, and your boat.
Tsunami Warnings 
Distant Earthquakes In the event of a significant earthquake in a distant area of the Pacific Basin, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) on O‘ahu will issue a Tsunami Watch 
until a tsunami can be confirmed or discounted. PTWC will issue a Tsunami 
Warning when a tsunami is confirmed and evacuation is necessary. The warning 
will be announced over the radio and on television through the Emergency Alert System, in conjunction with the sounding of the Outdoor Siren Warning System. The warning will include the predicted time of arrival of the first wave. The Outdoor Siren Warning System will be sounded at 3, 2, 1, and 1/2 hour prior to the estimated arrival time of the first wave. 
For land activities only, it may be safe to return to the evacuation zone after a 
Tsunami Warning is cancelled and local officials indicate it is safe to return. This may vary from area to area depending if there is damage. For activities in the water (e.g., wading, swimming, or boating), it is not safe to go in the water or return to a harbor until the Tsunami Advisory is cancelled and the harbor has been cleared by local authorities. Boaters should monitor VHF Radio Channel 16.   
Local Earthquakes 
If a significant earthquake occurs in the vicinity of the Hawaiian Islands, PTWC 37Tsunami Emergency Plan for Boat Owners will issue an Urgent Local Tsunami Warning. The warning will be announced 
over the radio and on television through the Emergency Alert System, in conjunction with the sounding of the Outdoor Siren Warning System. If the Urgent 
Local Tsunami Warning identifies the island you are on as subject to impact, leave any evacuation zone immediately. 
As stated previously, in the event of a local earthquake that causes you to fall to the 
ground or to hold onto something to keep from falling, if you are in an evacuation zone, move immediately to higher ground when the shaking stops. There may be no time for an official warning from PTWC, the Emergency Alert System, or the Outdoor Siren Warning System. You must act on your own and self evacuate.
The need to evacuate may occur suddenly and at any time. Therefore, all boaters 
should prepare in advance, maintain a high state of readiness and develop a Tsunami Emergency Plan that covers evacuation scenarios for distant and local earthquakes that generate tsunamis. 
Boat and Owner Preparedness
1. Ha ve your local U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary conduct a free vessel safety 
check to ensure your boat is in full compliance with all federal and state 
boating laws for that year. To find a local examiner, visit the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary online at http://www.cgaux.org/vsc/. If these safety checks are being offered at a harbor near you, take advantage of the opportunity. It may save a life.
2. Check your emer gency gear each and every time you go out on the water. 
Perform maintenance, make repairs, and replace out-of-date or worn equipment as needed. Check and replace rubber parts and hoses that are brittle or cracked. Make sure you have spare fuel filters aboard.
3. The po wder in dry chemical fire extinguishers can pack down into a solid 
mass over time. This greatly reduces its effectiveness during actual use. Before you launch, unpack and loosen the powder by inverting the extinguisher and giving it a few taps with a rubber mallet at the base.384. Re gular maintenance of your boat and support equipment are vital for any 
tsunami emergency situation. If your vessel is moored in a state of Hawai‘i 
recreational boating facility, it is required to leave the confines of the harbor every 90 days to demonstrate its seaworthiness. It should be able to move offshore to the recommended minimum depth of 300 feet.
5. An y towing vehicle or trailer should be in good condition. This can be 
checked every year during registration, when an annual inspection is required.
6. V essels should always have enough non-perishable food and drinking 
water on board so that a trip to the grocery store is not needed when a watch or warning is called. 
7. Fuel supplies should be suf ficient to keep a boat out of the harbor for 24 
hours, if that is part of your Tsunami Emergency Plan.
8. All v essel owners should insure their vessels and make sure their policies 
cover salvage costs for grounded and sunken vessels, damage to docks, pollution containment, and wreck removal.
9. If you do not kno w about the issuance of emergency notifications, you 
could lose precious preparation time. You should pay heed to the monthly testing of the State Outdoor Siren Warning System near your workplace, near your home, and other locations that you frequent. Report outages so the system can be properly maintained. Consider adopting a siren at  http://sirens.honolulu.gov and you, too, can contribute to keeping this system working properly. For those not on O‘ahu, check your local Civil Defense Agency for such a program.
10. Recei ve emergency alerts, such as text messages to mobile devices for 
anyone that signs up for the free service. You can receive warnings issued for tsunamis, earthquakes and severe weather events. O‘ahu uses a system called Nixle, Kaua‘i uses Blackboard Connect CTY , Hawai‘i Island uses 39City Watch, and Maui uses Alert Center. See the Resources section of this 
book for more information on these services. 
These practices can keep you and your vessel at a high state of readiness and allow you to successfully implement your Tsunami Emergency Plan.
Evacuation Planning for a Tsunami Emergency If your vessel is in an evacuation zone you will have three options: move it inland, move it offshore, or leave it in place. The decision to leave a safe place to go to your boat should depend on your equipment, your state of readiness, and adequate warning. Whatever option you choose requires a realistic assessment of the situation. Moreover, have a plan when you are off island or traveling out of state.
If, in your assessment, you, your vessel, and trailer are at a high state of readiness, 
and you have more than adequate time based on estimated wave arrival time, then you can move the boat inland. However, traffic on the roads, weather conditions and other unforeseen factors can change everything and rob you of precious time. Reassess your situation periodically. If you think that you will have just enough time to move inland or out to sea, you are probably not expecting the unexpected. Be realistic and know when it’s time to evacuate, with or without your vessel. 
A Tsunami Emergency Plan may include any of the following steps that are 
applicable to the vessel, the vessel owner, their situation and other considerations: 
1. If your boat is on a trailer in an evacuation zone, move it outside the evacuation zone as soon as a Tsunami Warning is issued. Don’t rush, but try to get off the roadways as soon as you can. Only implement this option if your towing vehicle and trailer are in good condition and there is no risk that there could be a breakdown on the road, worsening traffic.
2. If your boat is in the water and cannot be trailered, prepare to put to sea as soon as a Tsunami Watch is issued. 
a.   Consider having someone drive you to the harbor. If you drive yourself 
and leave your vehicle in the harbor parking lot, it may sustain damage 40from the tsunami while you are offshore in your boat. Even worse, 
it may impede vehicle traffic or prevent emergency personnel from conducting their assigned duties.  
b.   Move your vessel offshore to waters greater than 300 feet in depth 
and more than two miles from the channel entrance as soon as a distant Tsunami Warning or Tsunami Advisory is declared. It is important to note that even if the event is not elevated to a Tsunami Warning, a Tsunami Advisory is still associated with strong currents or waves dangerous to those in or very near the water and that the threat may continue for several hours. The decision to move your vessel out of the harbor under a Tsunami Advisory should be part of your Tsunami Emergency Plan.
c.   Maintain the minimum water depth of 300+ feet just prior to and 
during the expected arrival time of the tsunami. Keep a distance of at least two miles from the channel entrance. You should plan to have enough fuel, food, water, and anything else you consider essential for at least 24 hours. Be sure to turn on your navigation lights at night and in times of limited visibility.
d.   Stay clear of the harbor entrance channel during a tsunami event. 
Tsunamis can cause rapid changes in water level and unpredictable and dangerous currents in harbors and entrance channels, in addition to destruction from waves. 
e.   If your vessel is unable to navigate to a safe depth in advance of the 
arrival time, do not attempt to move your boat offshore or you may be caught in the tsunami or the dangerous currents associated with it. Do not move your boat offshore if your vessel is not seaworthy (e.g., risk that engine may quit in the entrance channel preventing other vessels from transiting the waterway).
3. If your boat is in an e vacuation zone and cannot be moved inland or 
offshore, determine ahead of time what you want to remove and how you will secure the boat. As soon as a Tsunami Advisory or Tsunami Warning is declared, remove predesignated items, secure the boat, and leave the evacuation zone. Don’t rush, but get off the roadways as soon as you can.414. All shores of all Ha waiian Islands are subject to seasonal high surf, some 
of which directly impact boat channels and harbor entrances. If a 
Tsunami Warning occurs during a period of seasonal high surf, especially at night, and your Tsunami Emergency Plan calls for moving your boat offshore, you should give serious consideration to leaving it where it is and just removing whatever you can, securing your boat, and leaving the evacuation zone.
5. Upon initiation of an e vacuation, public safety officials will establish 
roadblocks to control traffic coming into the coastal evacuation zone. When wave arrival is imminent, no one will be allowed back into the evacuation zone for their own safety. Therefore, if you intend to take some kind of emergency action for your boat, you should complete it and be out at sea or out of the evacuation zone at least one hour prior to the expected arrival of the first wave.
6. Anticipate hea vy traffic island-wide when a Tsunami Warning is issued. 
Again, allow ample travel time to reach your boat before the evacuation zones are closed to non-emergency traffic. 
7. If, for an y reason, you are unable to tend to your boat during a tsunami 
event, designate someone else to carry out your Tsunami Emergency Plan. 
a.   If your vessel is moored in a state recreational boating facility and you 
are out of the state, off island, or otherwise unable to immediately 
respond to an emergency related to your vessel for any length of time, you are required to have a caretaker serve in this capacity.
b.   Harbor managing agents must have your contact information and/or 
your caretaker’s most current contact information so one of you can be reached at any time. Many times, vessels have been saved from sinking in their slips with a phone call.
c.   Your designated caretaker should be very familiar with your boat 
and its seaworthiness. If your caretaker is expected to take your vessel to sea, he/she should be very capable of piloting your vessel. If not, your designated caretaker should be prepared to identify the items 42on your predesignated list of equipment, remove them and evacuate. 
Do not put your caretaker in harm’s way to move your vessel if the condition of your vessel, trailer, etc., is questionable. Do not put your caretaker at risk if there isn’t adequate time to travel to your harbor to remove items or secure your mooring. Equipment can be replaced. Lives cannot. 
In 1964 in Kodiak, Alaska, a warning was received prior to the arrival of the first tsunami waves. People who rushed down to the harbor to secure or take their boats out to sea constituted two thirds of all the fatalities caused by the tsunami at Kodiak City.
Boats at Sea During a Tsunami 
1. Tsunami w ave activity is imperceptible in the open ocean, so normally 
that would be the safest place for most boats. Remember, however, that out on the water you are at the mercy of the weather, seasonal ocean conditions, and possible rough seas. You could run out of fuel and anchoring at the minimum safe depth (300 feet of water) could be problematic. This must be taken into consideration before moving your boat offshore.
2. Most lar ge harbors and ports are under the control of a harbor authority 
and a vessel traffic system. If the harbor authority orders a forced evacuation of vessels to deeper water, you will need to be aware of the marine traffic, especially if it will impact you and your boat.
3. If a tsunami does strik e, your cellular phone may not work if power on 
shore is knocked out. Multiple methods of communication are preferable. With a marine VHF-FM radio, you can call for help if you are adrift. If 
you go more than one mile from shore your vessel must be equipped with a VHF radio or an Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon (EPIRB) according to state law. If you only have an EPIRB and you are in distress, it is possible no one will respond to your MAYDAY call during a tsunami. A marine VHF-FM radio is your most practical piece of communication equipment during a tsunami event. It allows you to 43Boats at Sea After a Tsunami 
1. Damaging w ave activity and dangerous currents can affect harbors for 
an undetermined period of time following the impact of the tsunami on 
the coast. Do not return to port until there is an official announcement that it is safe to return to your specific harbor. Remember cancellation of a Tsunami Warning and instructions that the public on land can return to the evacuation zone is different than an all clear signal for boaters to return to the harbor since there may be lingering currents or waves in monitor Channel 16 for information from the U.S. Coast Guard and harbor 
management agencies, and hear when it is safe to return to your harbor. You can also hail other vessels and ask for depth readings or signal that you are in distress. Remember that Channel 16 is for distress, safety, and calling (hailing) another vessel. Once you are in contact with another party, agree to switch to a working channel designated for noncommercial vessels. Even if you do have a VHF radio on board, it doesn’t hurt to have the EPIRB, a fully charged cellular phone and a working transistor radio in your survival kit.
4. If an of ficial announcement has not been made that it is safe to return to 
your harbor for some time, operate your vessel in a manner that will conserve fuel. The Tsunami Warnings and Advisories may last for hours and harbor/ocean conditions following the tsunami may not permit a quick return to port. 
5. There will be a lot of boating traf fic in your area, so do not linger near 
harbors, ports, and channels. If you actually have adequate line to anchor and it’s after sunset, put on your anchor lights to indicate you are stationary. If you are underway, put on your running lights. At night or when visibility is limited, your navigation lights may save lives.
6. Monitor VHF Radio Channel 16 or go to https://homeport.uscg.mil/
mycg/portal/ep/portDirectory.do?tabId=1&cotpId=27 to stay aware of U.S. Coast Guard Captain of the Port Safety Zones that may have been established restricting access to ports. Those without Internet or access to a VHF radio can also call the USCG Command Center at 1-800-552-6458.44the water hours after the threat of inland wave inundation has passed. An 
announcement that it is safe for boaters to return will not be given until a Tsunami Advisory is cancelled. Even if a Tsunami Advisory is cancelled, the harbor will still need to be surveyed before it is reopened for traffic. This will allow navigation hazards to be removed or identified prior to your returning to port and allow better protection for you and your vessel.
2. While w aiting aboard your boat, be alert for people who may have been 
swept out to sea by the tsunami as well as large amounts of debris that could become hazards to navigation.
3. Be prepared to yield to or assist emer gency personnel involved in rescue or 
salvage operations.
4. Monitor VHF Radio Channel 16 or go to https://homeport.uscg.mil/
mycg/portal/ep/portDirectory.do?tabId=1&cotpId=27 to stay aware of U.S. Coast Guard Captain of the Port Safety Zones that may have been established restricting access to ports. Those without Internet or access to a VHF radio can also call the UHCG Command Center at 1-800-552-6458. 
Hilo, Hawai‘i. The tsunami that struck Hilo on May 23, 1960 was caused by a magnitude 9.5 earthquake off of Chile the day before. Water and debris carried enough force to crush wooden buildings and twist parking meters by the time it hit Hilo 15 hours later. Photo courtesy of NOAA/NGDC and the Pacific Tsunami Museum.
45PArt 3
Emergency Assistance 
Information
46Important Phone Numbers 
State of Hawai‘i (non-O‘ahu callers) 
National Weather Service Recorded Forecasts           973-4380
State Civil Defense Agency             733-4300
City and County of Honolulu (island of O‘ahu) 
NOAA Weather Radio Recording            973-6109
National Response Center             1-800-424-8802
National Weather Service Recorded Forecasts           973-4380 
Ambulance, Fire, and Police            911 
American Red Cross                734-2101 
Marine emergencies, nearshore 0-3 miles: fire rescue         911 
Marine emergencies, offshore 3-200 miles: Coast Guard         1-800-552-6458 
Marine emergencies, offshore 200+ miles: Coast Guard          1-800-331-6176  
Honolulu Department of Emergency Management          723-8960
Maui County (islands of Maui, Moloka‘i, Läna‘i, and Kaho‘olawe) 
Maui - NOAA Weather Radio Recording           871-6706 
Läna‘i - NOAA Weather Radio Recording          565-6033 
Moloka‘i - NOAA Weather Radio Recording             1-866-944-5025
National Response Center             1-800-424-8802
National Weather Service Recorded Marine Forecast          1-866-944-5025 
Ambulance, Fire, and Police            911 
American Red Cross               244-0051 
Marine emergencies, nearshore 0-3 miles: fire rescue         911
Marine emergencies, offshore 3-200 miles: Coast Guard          1-800-552-6458 Marine emergencies, offshore 200+ miles: Coast Guard           1-800-331-6176 
Maui Civil Defense Agency              243-7285
U.S. Coast Guard Station Maui                      986-002347Hawai‘i County (island of Hawai‘i, the Big Island) 
NOAA Weather Radio Recording             935-5055
National Response Center             1-800-424-8802 
National Weather Service Recorded Marine Forecast          935-8555 
Ambulance, Fire, and Police            911
American Red Cross: Hilo             935-8305 
Marine emergencies, nearshore 0-3 miles: fire rescue         911 
Marine emergencies, offshore 3-200 miles: Coast Guard       1-800-552-6458 
Marine emergencies, offshore 200+ miles: Coast Guard         1-800-331-6176 
Hawai‘i Civil Defense Agency              935-0031
U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Team Hawaii (Big Island)            329-3987 
Kaua‘i County (islands of Kaua‘i and Ni‘ihau) 
NOAA Weather Radio Recording            245-2919
National Response              1-800-424-8802 
National Weather Service Recorded Marine Forecast         245-6001 
Ambulance, Fire, and Police            911 
American Red Cross              245-4919 
Marine emergencies, nearshore 0-3 miles: fire rescue         911 
Marine emergencies, offshore 3-200 miles: Coast Guard         1-800-552-6458 Marine emergencies, offshore 200+ miles: Coast Guard        1-800-331-6176 
Kaua‘i Civil Defense Agency             241-1800
U.S. Coast Guard Station Kaua‘i                     246-027948Important Radio Frequencies 
Hurricane Evacuation Shelters In Hawai‘i, according to HRS 200-37.5, vessels operating more than one mile 
from shore must be equipped with a properly functioning marine VHF-FM (156-162 MHz band) radio or Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon (EPIRB).
Channel 16 (International Public Hailing Channel)    156.800 MHz
Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service (RACES)  
State RACES Link on O‘ahu              147.060 MHz PL103.5
State RACES Link on Kaua‘i and Maui            147.040 MHz PL103.5
State RACES Link on Hawai‘i             147.020 MHz PL103.5
Citizens Band (CB) Radio           Channels 9 and 23
NOAA Weather Radio Network for Hilo and Honolulu   162.550 MHz 
NOAA Weather Radio Network for all other areas    162.400 MHz 
Coast Guard Medium-Frequency (MF) Sideband             2182/2670 kHz 
NWS/KVM-70 Radio Fax Weather Data        9982.5 kHz,   
          11090.0 kHz,   
          16135.0 kHz,  
          23331.5 kHz 
Your Hurricane Plan should include the locations of hurricane evacuation shelters 
that you and your family might use. For the locations of hurricane evacuation shelters, call your county Civil Defense or Emergency Management Agency. However, during a Hurricane Watch or Warning, listen to the Emergency Alert System announcements for the location of the hurricane evacuation shelters that are open; do not call your Civil Defense or Emergency Management Agency (for more information visit: http://www.scd.hawaii.gov).49Resources 
Baker, Edward, and Maria Villanueva. 1993. Analysis of Hurricane Andrew Economic 
Damage and Recovery Options for the Boating, Marina and Marine Service Industries. Technical Paper 72, Boating Research Center.
California Boater Checklist and Brochure: http://nthmp.tsunami.gov/documents/
boatingpamphlet_v4-7-12.pdf
Haraguchi, Paul. 1979. Weather In Hawaiian Waters. Honolulu: Hawaii Reprographics.
Hawai‘i County Civil Defense Agency: http://www.hawaiicounty.gov/civil-defense/, to 
register for Hawai‘i Island’s 
City Watch: http://ww2.citywatchonline.com/Public/
Signup.aspx?SUID=jMsd45DCLtpnkuC41zEKNw==
Hawai‘i State Civil Defense: http://www.scd.hawaii.gov
Hawaiian Electric Company. 2012. Hawaiian Electric Company’s Guide to Emergency 
Preparedness and Action. Honolulu. http://www.heco.com/portal/site/heco/menuitem.8e4
610c1e23714340b4c0610c510b1ca/?vgnextoid=b7ebf2b154da9010VgnVCM10000053011bacRCRD&vgnextfmt=default
Honolulu Department of Emergency Management: http://www1.honolulu.gov/dem/
Honolulu Department of Emergency Management, to register for Oahu’s Nixle:  
http://local.nixle.com/register/
Hwang, Dennis, and Darren Okimoto. 2011. Homeowners Handbook to Prepare for 
Natural Hazards. Prepared for the University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program, NOAA. http://seagrant.soest.hawaii.edu/publications/Book
International Tsunami Information Center (ITIC): http://itic.ioc-unesco.org/index.php 
and http://www.tsunamiwave.info
Kaua‘i Civil Defense Agency: http://www.kauai.gov/Government/Departments/
CivilDefenseAgency/EmergencyPreparedness/tabid/77/Default.aspx, to register for 
Kaua‘i’s 
Blackboard Connect CTY: http://www.kauai.gov/Kamaaina/Community/
ConnectCTY/tabid/344/Default.aspx50Maui Civil Defense Agency: http://www.co.maui.hi.us/index.aspx?nid=70, to register for 
Maui’s Alert Center: http://www.co.maui.hi.us/AlertCenter.aspx
Metro-Dade County Office of Emergency Management. No date. Hurricane Manual for Marine Interests. Miami. 
National Weather Service Forecast Office: http://www.prh.noaa.gov/hnl/
Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC): http://ptwc.weather.govRosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami.
State of Maryland. 1992. Maryland Guidebook for Marina Owners and Operators on 
Hurricane and Severe.
Sun-Sentinel. 1995. Hurricane ‘95. Internet document by Sun-Sentinel Company, Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida.
The Palm Beach Post. 1995. Hurricane ‘95. Internet document by Palm Beach Newspapers, 
Inc., Palm Beach.
University of Puerto Rico: Tsunami Guideline Plan for Operators of Caribbean Ports:  
http://www.prsn.uprm.edu/English/tsunami/media/TsunamiGuidelinePorts_October2011.pdf
United States Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration. No date. Hawaiian Hurricanes and Safety Measures. Honolulu. 
United States Geological Survey (USGS): http://walrus.wr.usgs.gov/tsunami
University of Washington: http://www.ess.washington.edu/tsunami/index.html
Villanueva, Maria L., and Donald W. Pybas, editors. 1994. Recommendations for Hurricane 
Preparations and Responses for Boating Communities and Industries. Sponsored by the Florida Sea Grant College Program in cooperation with the University of Miami Boating 
Research Center and the Florida Sea Grant Extension Program. Technical Paper 75, Florida 
Sea Grant College Program, Gainesville.
Weather Preparedness. Prepared for Maryland Department of Natural Resources by Coastal 
Technology, Inc.51
Lebu, Chile. A major 8.8 magnitude earthquake off the coast of Chile on February 27, 2010 caused 
massive destruction of buildings as well as a devastating tsunami which destroyed several coastal towns and commercial fishing vessels. Photo courtesy of National Geological and Mining Survey (SERNAGEOMIN) 2012 and UNESCO/IOC - NOAA International Tsunami Information Center. 
O‘ahu, Hawai‘i. In response to the large earthquake and tsunami in Chile on February 27, 2010, a 
tsunami watch and later warning was issued in Hawai‘i. Here boats at Kewalo Basin on O‘ahu head to deeper water. The Coast Guard vessel in the background is observing operations and ready to provide assistance. During a tsunami warning, boats going to sea should stay at depths greater than 300 feet and at least 2 miles from the channel entrance. Photo courtesy of Dennis Hwang.Published by the University of Hawai‘i Sea Grant College Program
H
A
W
A
II EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
