Source URL: https://stateid.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Department of Transportation | HAWAII STATE IDENTIFICATION CARD Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii Department of Transportation Ka ʻOihana Alakau Search this site Search X icon RSS icon Facebook icon Youtube icon Home Airports Harbors Highways Administration About Us Airports Harbors Highways Administration FAQs Airports Harbors Highways Hawaii electric bike and moped rebate Administration Visitor Airports Harbors Highways Library Airports Harbors Highways Admin Rules Reports Publications Presentations Doing Business Airports Harbors Highways Trucking Contracts Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBE) Statewide Transportation Planning Land Matters Meetings Boards & Commissions Property for Sale Weather Related Traffic Alerts Home » HAWAII STATE IDENTIFICATION CARD HAWAII STATE IDENTIFICATION CARD (Rev. 4/27/2021) Effective January 2, 2013, the state Department of Transportation (DOT) and all county driver license offices implemented Act 310, Session Laws of Hawaii 2012, which affected the issuance of Hawaii State Identification Cards statewide. Below are the requirements and answers to frequently asked questions about the change in how Hawaii State Identification Cards are issued. ———- Due to circumstances resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and the national emergency declaration, the Department of Homeland Security is extending the REAL ID enforcement deadline. The new deadline for REAL ID enforcement is May 7, 2025 . ———- INTRODUCTION Anyone applying for a REAL ID compliant Hawaii State Identification Card for the first time must present in-person documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address. Listed below are links to the state identification card issuing locations for each county and their contact information: County DMV Offices and Contact Information City and County of Honolulu https://www.honolulu.gov/cms-csd-menu/site-csd-sitearticles/26204-services-and-locations-listings.html Maui County https://www.mauicounty.gov/2125/DMV-Wait-Times Hawaii County https://www.hawaiicounty.gov/departments/finance/vehicle-registration-licensing Kauai County https://www.kauai.gov/DriversLicense DOCUMENTARY PROOF REQUIREMENTS AFFECT EVERYONE APPLYING FOR A REAL ID COMPLIANT (STAR) HAWAII STATE IDENTIFICATION CARD Documentary proof affects everyone applying for a Hawaii State Identification Card, including United States (U.S.) citizens and foreign-born applicants. The documentary proof also applies to anyone who has just moved to Hawaii from another state or country, and anyone renewing their Hawaii State Identification Card. A REAL ID compliant card may be issued when all documentation requirements as specified below are met. The REAL ID compliant card will allow the cardholder to use the Hawaii state identification card as a form of identification accepted by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and other security personnel at airports, other ports of entry and Federal installations requiring a REAL ID credential. To view the TSA Real ID webpage including tool kits and a fact sheet with useful information please click here . A REAL ID compliant Hawaii State Identification Card requires documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address from: • Applicants applying for a REAL ID compliant Hawaii State Identification Card for the first-time. Anyone who has never held a Hawaii State Identification Card, must apply in-person and provide documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address. A photograph must also be taken. Full names on all documents must be the same or you must provide “connecting documents” to establish the link between the names of any documents that have different names. Refer to the section titled List of Acceptable Connecting Documents To Prove Legal Name Changes. Click here to view and print the document guide. If you need a Social Security card, visit: http//www.socialsecurity.gov/ssnumber/ss5doc.htm. • Applicants renewing their Hawaii State Identification Card. In most cases, application to renew your Hawaii State Identification Card must be done in-person at the DMV locations. However, if you are eighty-years of age and older, have physical or intellectual disabilities for whom application in-person presents a serious burden, or have a letter from a licensed primary care provider certifying that a severe disability causes you to be homebound you may renew at a non-DMV location. Contact your respective county DMV office for information. Applicants with temporary legal presence in the U.S. must renew their Hawaii State identification card in-person at a county DMV office and present documentary proof of continued legal presence. Applicants who are U.S. citizens and immigrants admitted with permanent residence status in the U.S. and have previously presented documents to prove legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address and were issued a REAL ID compliant State ID card are not required to present documentary proof again, unless any information on these documents have changed. However, a new photograph must be taken in-person by DMV staff at every other renewal. Full names on all documents must be the same or you must provide “connecting documents” to establish the link between the names of any documents that have different names. Refer to the section titled List of Acceptable Connecting Documents to Prove Legal Name Changes. Click here to view and print the document guide. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQS) ABOUT DOCUMENTARY PROOF REQUIREMENTS • I am temporarily authorized to be in the U.S. How often will I have to present documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address? Applicants who are temporarily authorized to be in the U.S. are required to present in-person documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address when applying for an initial Hawaii State Identification Card. Applicants who are temporarily authorized to be in the U.S. are required to present in-person documentation of continued legal presence in the U.S. when applying for a duplicate or renewal of a Hawaii State Identification Card. • I am temporarily authorized to be in the U.S. Can I renew my Hawaii State Identification Card by mail? No. You must renew in-person at a county DMV office and present documentary proof of legal presence. • Once I have provided all required documentation, will I need to provide this documentation at the time of my next renewal? Applicants who are U.S. citizens and immigrants admitted for permanent residence status in the U.S. will not be required to provide documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address at renewal. However, applicants that have any changes to any personally identifiable information (such as a change in name) that is printed on the driver’s license since their last card was issued will be required to present in-person documentary proof of such changes. Any change to the Hawaii principal residence address should be submitted as well. Full names on all documents must be the same or you must provide “connecting documents” to establish the link between the names of any documents that have different names. Refer to the section titled List of Acceptable Connecting Documents To Prove Legal Name Changes. Click here to view and print the document guide. • I lost my Hawaii State Identification Card and I would like to apply for a duplicate. Am I required to present documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address? If you are temporarily authorized to be in the U.S., you are required to present proof of legal presence in-person. Documentary proof is not required for U.S. citizens or those with permanent residence status. However, any change to your personally identifiable information, except for Hawaii principal residence address, will require documentary proof to be presented in-person. A Hawaii State Identification Card will be reissued with the updated information. • Can I apply for a duplicate Hawaii State Identification Card by mail? You may apply for a duplicate Hawaii State ID card by mail if you lost your card and are out-of- state. However, any changes to the personally identifiable information, except for Hawaii principal residence address, will require that the application for a duplicate be done in-person. • Can I mail in my documents so they can be reviewed and approved prior to my renewal of my Hawaii State Identification Card? No. Applicants may not mail documents to the county DMV for review prior to their office visit. Documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address must be presented in-person at the time of the renewal application if documentation has not been previously provided subsequent to January 2, 2013, or there are personally identifiable information changes, including Hawaii principal residence address to the information shown on the card. • If the documents I submit at the time of renewal are not acceptable, will I be provided with more information on other documents that you will accept? Yes. Your county DMV staff will do their best to assist you through this process. • I will be renewing my Hawaii State Identification Card soon. I was born at home and do not have a birth certificate. I have no living relative to confirm who I am. Can I provide something else? If your current Hawaii State Identification Card was issued prior to January 1, 2013, documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and principal residence address will be required to process your Hawaii State Identification Card renewal application. A Hawaii State Identification Card may be renewed as early as six months before its expiration date. Therefore, it is recommended that you give yourself sufficient time to renew within the six month period before your Hawaii State Identification Card expires. There are other legal documents you may have that your county DMV may accept in lieu of your birth certificate. Please contact your county DMV office for further information. Click here to go to contacts in the Introduction section at the top of the page. • My Hawaii birth certificate shows my birth name and my Hawaii State Identification Card shows my married name. Am I required to present additional proof of legal name? Yes. You are required to present an original or certified copy of your certificate of marriage or other connecting legal document to show your name(s) has changed from your birth name to your current legal name. Your Hawaii birth certificate will prove your legal name (at birth) and your certificate of marriage (or other legal name change document) will establish your name change from your birth name to your married name that will appear on your Hawaii State Identification Card. Full names on all documents must be the same or you must provide “connecting documents” to establish the link between the names of any documents that have different names. Refer to the section titled List of Acceptable Connecting Documents To Prove Legal Name Changes. Click here to view and print the document guide. • What documents are considered to be legal and admissible? Documents presented in-person for proof of legal name, date of birth, social security number, legal presence and Hawaii principal residence address must be valid originals or certified copies. Notarized copies or faxes of the before-mentioned documents are not acceptable as proof for certified copies. Please refer to the Acceptable Documents For A REAL ID Compliant (Star) Hawaii State Identification Card. Click here to view and print the document guide. • My father was in the military and I was born out of country. I lost my documents verifying birth abroad and do not have a U.S. passport. What can I bring in to prove I am a U.S. citizen and to prove my identity? Please refer to the Acceptable Documents For A REAL ID Compliant (Star) Hawaii State Identification Card ( Click here to view and print the document guide) or contact your county DMV office (Click here to go to contacts in the INTRODUCTION section) for further assistance. • My documents are very old, delicate and difficult to read. Should I bring those documents in to prove my identity? Yes. Present the documents you have. Your county DMV representative will carefully review your documents to determine acceptability and provide you with further assistance as needed. • My U.S. birth certificate was obtained the year after I was born. Is it acceptable as proof of identification? State certified copies of birth certificates are accepted as documentary proof of legal name, date of birth and legal presence. • I want to submit my State certified birth certificate for proof of legal name, date of birth and legal presence. The names on my social security card and my out-of-state Identification Card match. The name on my State certified birth certificate is different from the name on my out-of-state Identification Card. Will this be sufficient? The name on the document(s) you present for proof of legal name, date of birth, and legal presence must match. In this scenario, you will be required to present documentary proof of a legal name change from your birth name to the name on your out-of-state Identification Card. Your legal name is required to be shown on your Hawaii State Identification Card. • Immigration has acknowledged receipt of my application. I am still waiting for my immigration documents to be processed. How will my pending status affect my eligibility to obtain a Hawaii State Identification Card? Please contact your county DMV office (Click here to go to contacts in the INTRODUCTION section) for assistance. • I was born in a foreign country and am adopted by my parents who are U.S. citizens. What documents do I need to prove legal name, date of birth and legal status in order to obtain a Hawaii State Identification Card? You will need to provide your immigration documents, i.e., U.S. passport, immigrant visa, green card, or certificate of citizenship, etc. In addition, you will be required to provide proof of your social security number and Hawaii principal residence address. • I am a foreign born applicant holding a valid Hawaii State Identification Card. I also own a business in the U.S. (mainland). Can I renew my Hawaii State Identification Card by mail? No. You must renew in-person and present documentary proof of continued legal presence. In addition, documentation must be submitted if there is any change of your Hawaii principal residence address. • What is the validity period of a Hawaii State Identification Card for individuals temporarily authorized to be in the U.S.? The Hawaii State Identification Card of individuals temporarily authorized to be in the U.S. will be valid for their verified length of legal stay up to the maximum period pursuant to state law. If the expiration date shown on the document used to prove legal presence cannot be verified electronically or through other approved means, the Hawaii State Identification Card will be valid for no longer than one year. • Am I able to have the Hawaii State Identification Card fee waived if I am homeless or have a case of extreme hardship? Yes, but you must be able to document that you are homeless or under extreme hardship. Extreme hardship is documented by presenting a Social Security Administration award letter for supplemental security income program benefits or a Department of Human Services notice of financial benefits. Homeless individuals will need to provide a verification letter issued by a Department of Human Services recognized homeless service provider. Only the fee for an original or renewal Hawaii State Identification card may be waived. • May I renew my REAL ID compliant Hawaii State Identification Card by mail if I am 80 years old or older? Yes, but only if you are a U.S. citizen or have permanent residence status and have previously submitted REAL ID required documentation. Contact your county DMV office (click here to go to contacts in the INTRODUCTION section) for further assistance and detailed instructions. • What can I do if I am unable to visit a county DMV office to renew my Hawaii State Identification Card due to a physical or intellectual disability that causes me to be homebound? You must provide the county DMV office with a letter from a licensed primary care provider certifying that a severe disability causes you to be homebound. For this situation, the DMV will make arrangements to allow a non-in-person renewal. Contact your county DMV office (click here to go to contacts in the INTRODUCTION section) for further assistance. • What if I do not have all of the documents needed to obtain my Hawaii State Identification Card? Carefully review the Acceptable Documents For A REAL ID Compliant (Star) Hawaii State Identification Card specified. ( click here to view and print the document guide) If you do not have any of the documents mentioned, please contact your county DMV office (click here to go to contacts in the INTRODUCTION section) for further assistance. They will work with you on identifying other documents that may satisfy the missing required documents. • What if I already have a valid (unexpired) REAL ID driver’s license or instruction permit, but also want a REAL ID compliant Hawaii State Identification Card? You are allowed to hold only one REAL ID compliant credential. You may elect to designate your Hawaii State Identification card as the REAL ID compliant credential but must surrender your REAL ID compliant driver’s license or instruction permit and apply for a limited-purpose driver’s license or instruction permit. Please read the information on obtaining a limited-purpose driver’s license, provisional license or instruction permit. Limited Purpose DL link: https://hidot.hawaii.gov/highways/files/2015/12/mvso-Limited-Purpose-DL-Pamphlet-Frequently-Asked-Questions-12-02-15.pdf • Will my REAL ID compliant Hawaii State Identification Card be accepted by airport security (TSA) or federal facilities if it does not have a star on it? The Department of Homeland Security has informed all states that they will begin the full enforcement of REAL ID credentials on October 1, 2021. This would result in TSA and other security personnel at federal facilities accepting as identification only REAL ID compliant cards with the approved star-marking to board a domestic aircraft or enter a federal facility. The TSA accepts many other forms of identification. Click here for a list of valid identification documentation accepted by TSA airport checkpoints. • My Hawaii State Identification Card renewal date is not until after October 1, 2021. I expect to fly to the mainland or another island on or after October 1, 2021 and before I renew my Hawaii State Identification Card. I remember submitting required documents at my last renewal. How do I obtain a REAL ID compliant Hawaii State Identification Card with the star-marking? You may visit your county DMV office prior to October 1, 2021 and apply for a duplicate Hawaii State Identification Card with the star-marking and pay the appropriate duplicate card fee. The county DMV staff will verify that you have presented all the required documents to qualify for the card with the star marking. Be aware that the Hawaii State Identification Card may take up to 6 to 8 weeks to be delivered. • How do I contact my county DMV office? Click here to go to contacts in the Introduction section at the top of the page. Recent Posts Intermittent full closure of Kūhiō Highway at Waikoko hairpin turn beginning Tuesday, Nov. 12 Road closures at Nāwiliwili Harbor Nov. 12-20 Pali Highway on-ramp to the H-1 eastbound to close early Saturday, Nov. 9 Lanes closed at the Nāpilihau Street and Honoapiʻilani Highway intersection for nighttime work Nightly closures of Hālawa/ H-3 Freeway off-ramps from Moanalua Freeway, week of Nov. 12 Lanes closed at Kaʻahumanu Avenue and Papa Avenue intersection for nighttime work Full closure of two eastbound ramps, in Hālawa and Pearl City, evening of Wednesday, Nov. 6 Categories Airports News Harbors News Highways News Main News Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
