Source URL: https://test4lead.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Children with Special Health Needs Branch | Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention – Events Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer English 廣東話 Chuukese ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 国语 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog Tongan ภาษาไทย Tiếng Việt Visayan x To request language or accessibility for HDOH programs or public meetings, please contact the HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, at (808) 586-4400 or email: [email protected] . Please allow sufficient time for HDOH to meet accommodation requests. 如欲針對在 HDOH 計劃或公開會議中提出語言或無障礙便利方面的要求，請聯絡 HDOH 非歧視協調員，致電 (808) 586-4400 或發送電子郵件至： [email protected] 。請為 HDOH 留出足夠的時間來滿足您的便利要求。 Ren eom kopwe tungor fosun fonu ika atotongeni ren HDOH programs kena ika mwichen aramas meinisin kena, kose mochen kori ewe HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, non (808)586-4400 ika email: [email protected] . Kose mochen mut ngenitamenon fansoun ren an HDOH epwe tori anenian tungor kena. No ke noi ‘ana i kōkua ma ka māhele ‘ōlelo a i ‘ole ka lawelawe kīnānā ‘ana no nā papa hana a ka HDOH a i ‘ole nā hālāwai no ka lehulehu, e kūkā me ka Luna Ho‘okae o ka HDOH ma ka helu (808) 586-4400 a i ‘ole e leka uila i ka [email protected] . E ‘ae aku i ka manawa lō‘ihi kūpono e ho‘oponopono ai ka HDOH i kāu noi. Tapno agkiddaw ti lenggwahe wenno pannaka-access ti programa ti HDOH wenno pampubliko nga miting, pangaasim ta kontakem ti non-discrimination nga coordinator ti HDOH sadjay (808) 586-4400 wenno email: [email protected] . Pangaasim ta ipaayam tiHDOH ti undas a tiempo a mangasikaso dagiti kiddaw ti pagdagusan. HDOHのプログラムまたはオープンな会議における言語やアクセシビリティのリクエストは、HDOH無差別コーディネーター（電話：(808) 586-4400、またはメール： [email protected] ）までご連絡ください。HDOHがご要望にお応えできるよう、十分な時間をお取りください。 HDOH 프로그램 또는 공개 회의에 대한 언어 지원 또는 장애인 편의를 요청하시려면 HDOH 차별금지 조정관에게 (808) 5864400으로 전화하거나 이메일( [email protected] )로 연락해 주십시오. HDOH에서 요청된 편의 사항을 마련할 수 있도록 충분한 시간을 주시기 바랍니다. 如需申请针对 HDOH 计划或公开会议的语言或无障碍服务，请致电 (808) 586-4400，或发送电子邮件至： : [email protected] 联系 HDOH 非歧视协调员。请留出足够的时间，以便 HDOH 有充足的时间来满足便利安排请求。 Ñan kajjitõk am maron bõk melele ikijen kajin ak lale melele ko ñan burokraam ko an HDOH ak kwelok ko aoleb armij remaron etal ñane, jouj im kebaak Rikõlaajrak eo ej lale Ejellok Kalijeklok an HDOH, ilo (808) 586-4400 ñe ejab email: [email protected] . Jouj im lelok ien ñan an HDOH kõtõbrak kajjitõk ko ikijen mennin jibañ. Ina ia talosagaina le gagana po o le mauaina o polokalama o le HDOH po o fonotaga lautele, faamolemole faafesootai le Taitai Faamaopoopo o le HDOH e Le FaailogaLanu, i le (808) 586-4400 po o le imeli: [email protected] . Faamolemole ia faʻaavanoa se taimi talafeagai mo le HDOH e faataunuʻu ai ia talosaga. Si desea solicitar servicios lingüísticos o accesibilidad para los programas o reuniones públicas del HDOH, contáctese con la coordinadora de actos de no discriminación del HDOH al (808) 586-4400 o por correo electrónico: [email protected] . Le pedimos que nosconceda tiempo suficiente para que el HDOH pueda satisfacer sus solicitudes de ayuda. Para humiling ng wika o pagiging magagamit para sa mga programa o mga pampublikong pagpupulong ng HDOH, pakikontak ang Koordinador ng Walang Diskriminasyon ng HDOH, sa (808)586-4400 o mag-email sa: [email protected] . Mangyaring bigyan ngsapat na oras ang HDOH para makatugon sa mga kahilingan sa akomodasyon. Ke kole ʻa e lea fakafonua pe lava ʻo ngāue ʻaki ʻa e ngaahi polokalama HDOH pe ngaahi fakataha fakapuleʻangá, kātaki ʻo fetuʻutaki ki he Kōʻotineita ʻIkai-Filifilimānako ʻa e HDOH, ʻi he (808) 586-4400 pe ʻīmeili: [email protected] . Kātaki ʻo ʻoange ha taimi feʻunga maʻá e HDOH ke fakakakao ʻa e ngaahi kole ki he nofoʻangá. หากต้องการขอภาษาอื่นเพิ่มเติมหรือการเข้าถึงโปรแกรม HDOH หรือการประชุมสาธารณะ โปรดติดต่อผู้ประสานงานด้านการไม่เลือกปฏิบัติของ HDOH ที่หมายเลข (808) 586-4400 หรืออีเมล: [email protected] โปรดให้เวลาอย่างเพียงพอเพื่อให้ทาง HDOH สามารถตอบสนองต่อคาขอที่พ ักได้ Để yêu cầu ngôn ngữ hoặc quyền tiếp cận các chương trình HDOH hoặc các cuộc họp công khai, vui lòng liên hệ với Điều phối viên Phụ trách về Không phân biệt Đối xử của HDOH theo số (808)586-4400 hoặc gửi email tới: [email protected] . Vui lòng choHDOH đủ thời gian để đáp ứng các yêu cầu về biện pháp trợ giúp đặc biệt. Aron mohangyo og pinulongan o access para sa mga programa sa HDOH o publikong mga miting, palihog kontaka ang HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, sa (808) 586-4400 o pag-email sa: [email protected] . Palihog paghatag og igong panahon aron maatiman sa HDOH ang hangyo para sa akomodasyon. Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii, Department of Health Children with Special Health Needs Branch Ka ʻOihana Olakino Search this site Search Home About DOH Office of the Director Program Directory Mission Statement Strategic Plan Rules & Regulations Neighbor Island Offices Hawaii Maui Kauai Family Guidance Centers News COVID-19 News News Releases Ola Lokahi Health Topics Employment Contact Us Future Lead Testing Station Events Will Be Posted Here For Everyone For Healthcare Providers Free Handouts Upcoming Events What to Expect at Lead Testing Station Events Even a little lead in a child’s blood can hurt their ability to learn, pay attention, and do well in school. We are here to help the entire community (property owners, parents, grandparents, uncles, aunties, and more) keep keiki away from lead. You can give them a huge boost in school and for the rest of the lives by learning more and taking a few simple steps today. The DOH Lead Testing Station is a FREE way to help keep our keiki away from lead. Test things from your home, school, or business. Test anything you think a young child might touch or play with. Talk to experts and get instant results. We will have free Leo the Little Lion coloring books , board books , and colorful flyers with lots of pictures. What Should I Bring and How Does It Work? The machine that we use cannot test through glass or thick plastic. Instead, please bring things like old toys, souvenirs, jewelry, dishes, or antiques in a plastic ziploc bag with your name on it. Remember, always wash hands with soap and water if anyone touches something you think might have lead in it. Suggested Items to Bring Dishes Glasses Mugs Toys Antiques Jewelry Food Spices Souvenirs Dirt from an outside play area or garden Stuff from work Fishing tackle Paint chips And more… but we can’t test water for lead About Us Program Directory Info Line 808-586-4400 Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact e-mail Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://health.hawaii.gov/cshcn/files/2022/07/Happy-Healthy-Lead-Free-Me-HI-CLPPP.pdf) ---
Written by Gail C. Gettens & Knatalie Vetter Illustrated by Allison Valentine
Our family is getting bigger,  
a baby on the way.  
We need more space  
to grow and to play.
Parents, did you know:
Lead is a poison that harms nearly every part of a child’s body, 
especially the brain. 
Simple steps can help keep your child lead-safe.Looking for a bigger place,  
learning as we go.  
If there’s lead paint,  
we need to know.
Parents, did you know:
Before  you buy or rent a home built before 1978, you should, by law, 
receive the Protect Your Family from Lead in Your Home  booklet. 
Homes built before 1978 may contain lead-based paint and lead dust.
Before making rooms  
warm and bright,  
we check for lead  
to renovate right.
Parents, did you know:
Before you decide to buy or to renovate a home, a licensed lead 
inspector can test for lead-based paint. 
A home inspection does not include a test for lead-based paint.
Using a test kit,  
the swab tip turns red.  
Now we know  
where there is lead.
Parents, did you know :
The amount of lead dust that can poison a child is so tiny, you can’t 
see it on hands, toys, floors, or other surfaces.
You can buy EPA-recognized lead test kits at a hardware store.
Packing for our trip.  
It’s going to be fun!  
Staying away from home  
until the work is done.
Parents, did you know:
Children and pregnant women should leave until lead-safe work is 
complete and the area has been thoroughly cleaned. 
Work that disturbs lead-based paint creates dangerous lead dust.
Working lead-safe  
is important to do,  
to protect our family  
and the workers, too.
Parents, did you know:
Renovators certified in lead-safe work practices are also trained to 
check for lead and to give out the Renovate Right  booklet. 
Lead-safe renovation training is available for homeowners.
Blowing out the candle,  
our family gathers near.  
Singing “Happy Birthday”  
to celebrate the year.
Parents, did you know:
Children who look happy and healthy can have dangerous levels of 
lead in their bodies. 
Children’s lead levels should be tested at age 1 and again  at age 2.
When visiting the doctor  
at ages one and two,  
a lead level test  
is what we will do.
Parents, did you know:
Your child’s lead level can be tested in the doctor’s office with 
a simple finger prick.
Test results are available before you leave the office. 
Checking baby  
from head to toe,  
a quick lead level test  
before we go.
Parents, did you know:
Washing your child’s hands with soap and water is important before  
eating, sleeping, and lead level testing to remove lead particles.
Alcohol swabs and hand sanitizers  do not  remove lead.
Laughing together  
while playing with toys,  
our home is filled  
with joyful noise.
Parents, did you know:
There are many places in your home and environment where lead 
may be found, including paint, dust, soil, toys, and water.
Lead can be carried home from some types of jobs and hobbies.
 Taking simple steps  
easy as can be,  
keeps us happy,  
healthy, and lead-free!
Parents, did you know:
There is no safe level of lead exposure for children; even low levels 
are bad for their health, brain development, and growth.   
Lead poisoning is 100% preventable. 
 
To learn more, visit LeadFree.Me
This document was supported by Cooperative Agreement NUE@EHOO1408-02, funded by the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) as part of a financial 
assistance award totaling $1.6M. The contents are those of NH DHHS and do not necessarily represent the official 
views of, nor an endorsement, by CDC/HHS, or the U.S. Government. Additional funding was provided by the United 
States Environmental Protection Agency under assistance agreement BG - 00A00731 ™ 0 to NH DHHS. The contents 
of this document do not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This 
document was funded 68% by the CDC and 32% by the EPA.
Copyright 2021 NH DHHS. All rights reserved. Licensed under CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/
Clinical support provided by NH Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics.
The information provided in this book is based on current scientific and technical 
understanding of the issues presented. Following the advice given will not necessarily 
provide complete protection in all situations or against all health hazards that can be 
caused by lead exposure.
