Source URL: https://traumainformed.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
State of Hawaiʻi, Department of Health Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer English 廣東話 Chuukese ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ilokano 日本語 한국어 国语 Marshallese Samoan Español Tagalog Tongan ภาษาไทย Tiếng Việt Visayan x To request language or accessibility for HDOH programs or public meetings, please contact the HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, at (808) 586-4400 or email: [email protected] . Please allow sufficient time for HDOH to meet accommodation requests. 如欲針對在 HDOH 計劃或公開會議中提出語言或無障礙便利方面的要求，請聯絡 HDOH 非歧視協調員，致電 (808) 586-4400 或發送電子郵件至： [email protected] 。請為 HDOH 留出足夠的時間來滿足您的便利要求。 Ren eom kopwe tungor fosun fonu ika atotongeni ren HDOH programs kena ika mwichen aramas meinisin kena, kose mochen kori ewe HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, non (808)586-4400 ika email: [email protected] . Kose mochen mut ngenitamenon fansoun ren an HDOH epwe tori anenian tungor kena. No ke noi ‘ana i kōkua ma ka māhele ‘ōlelo a i ‘ole ka lawelawe kīnānā ‘ana no nā papa hana a ka HDOH a i ‘ole nā hālāwai no ka lehulehu, e kūkā me ka Luna Ho‘okae o ka HDOH ma ka helu (808) 586-4400 a i ‘ole e leka uila i ka [email protected] . E ‘ae aku i ka manawa lō‘ihi kūpono e ho‘oponopono ai ka HDOH i kāu noi. Tapno agkiddaw ti lenggwahe wenno pannaka-access ti programa ti HDOH wenno pampubliko nga miting, pangaasim ta kontakem ti non-discrimination nga coordinator ti HDOH sadjay (808) 586-4400 wenno email: [email protected] . Pangaasim ta ipaayam tiHDOH ti undas a tiempo a mangasikaso dagiti kiddaw ti pagdagusan. HDOHのプログラムまたはオープンな会議における言語やアクセシビリティのリクエストは、HDOH無差別コーディネーター（電話：(808) 586-4400、またはメール： [email protected] ）までご連絡ください。HDOHがご要望にお応えできるよう、十分な時間をお取りください。 HDOH 프로그램 또는 공개 회의에 대한 언어 지원 또는 장애인 편의를 요청하시려면 HDOH 차별금지 조정관에게 (808) 5864400으로 전화하거나 이메일( [email protected] )로 연락해 주십시오. HDOH에서 요청된 편의 사항을 마련할 수 있도록 충분한 시간을 주시기 바랍니다. 如需申请针对 HDOH 计划或公开会议的语言或无障碍服务，请致电 (808) 586-4400，或发送电子邮件至： : [email protected] 联系 HDOH 非歧视协调员。请留出足够的时间，以便 HDOH 有充足的时间来满足便利安排请求。 Ñan kajjitõk am maron bõk melele ikijen kajin ak lale melele ko ñan burokraam ko an HDOH ak kwelok ko aoleb armij remaron etal ñane, jouj im kebaak Rikõlaajrak eo ej lale Ejellok Kalijeklok an HDOH, ilo (808) 586-4400 ñe ejab email: [email protected] . Jouj im lelok ien ñan an HDOH kõtõbrak kajjitõk ko ikijen mennin jibañ. Ina ia talosagaina le gagana po o le mauaina o polokalama o le HDOH po o fonotaga lautele, faamolemole faafesootai le Taitai Faamaopoopo o le HDOH e Le FaailogaLanu, i le (808) 586-4400 po o le imeli: [email protected] . Faamolemole ia faʻaavanoa se taimi talafeagai mo le HDOH e faataunuʻu ai ia talosaga. Si desea solicitar servicios lingüísticos o accesibilidad para los programas o reuniones públicas del HDOH, contáctese con la coordinadora de actos de no discriminación del HDOH al (808) 586-4400 o por correo electrónico: [email protected] . Le pedimos que nosconceda tiempo suficiente para que el HDOH pueda satisfacer sus solicitudes de ayuda. Para humiling ng wika o pagiging magagamit para sa mga programa o mga pampublikong pagpupulong ng HDOH, pakikontak ang Koordinador ng Walang Diskriminasyon ng HDOH, sa (808)586-4400 o mag-email sa: [email protected] . Mangyaring bigyan ngsapat na oras ang HDOH para makatugon sa mga kahilingan sa akomodasyon. Ke kole ʻa e lea fakafonua pe lava ʻo ngāue ʻaki ʻa e ngaahi polokalama HDOH pe ngaahi fakataha fakapuleʻangá, kātaki ʻo fetuʻutaki ki he Kōʻotineita ʻIkai-Filifilimānako ʻa e HDOH, ʻi he (808) 586-4400 pe ʻīmeili: [email protected] . Kātaki ʻo ʻoange ha taimi feʻunga maʻá e HDOH ke fakakakao ʻa e ngaahi kole ki he nofoʻangá. หากต้องการขอภาษาอื่นเพิ่มเติมหรือการเข้าถึงโปรแกรม HDOH หรือการประชุมสาธารณะ โปรดติดต่อผู้ประสานงานด้านการไม่เลือกปฏิบัติของ HDOH ที่หมายเลข (808) 586-4400 หรืออีเมล: [email protected] โปรดให้เวลาอย่างเพียงพอเพื่อให้ทาง HDOH สามารถตอบสนองต่อคาขอที่พ ักได้ Để yêu cầu ngôn ngữ hoặc quyền tiếp cận các chương trình HDOH hoặc các cuộc họp công khai, vui lòng liên hệ với Điều phối viên Phụ trách về Không phân biệt Đối xử của HDOH theo số (808)586-4400 hoặc gửi email tới: [email protected] . Vui lòng choHDOH đủ thời gian để đáp ứng các yêu cầu về biện pháp trợ giúp đặc biệt. Aron mohangyo og pinulongan o access para sa mga programa sa HDOH o publikong mga miting, palihog kontaka ang HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, sa (808) 586-4400 o pag-email sa: [email protected] . Palihog paghatag og igong panahon aron maatiman sa HDOH ang hangyo para sa akomodasyon. Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory Trauma-Informed Care Task Force State of Hawaiʻi, Department of Health Ka ʻOihana Olakino Search this site Search Home About DOH Office of the Director Program Directory Mission Statement Strategic Plan Rules & Regulations Neighbor Island Offices Hawaii Maui Kauai Family Guidance Centers News COVID-19 News News Releases Ola Lokahi Health Topics Employment Contact Us About the Task Force The statewide, multiyear Trauma-Informed Care Task Force was created by the 2021 Hawaiʻi State Legislature with the passage of House Bill 1322 , becoming Act 209 . The task force will propose recommendations for the state’s child-serving agencies and organizations to become collectively more trauma-informed to better serve Hawai’i’s children and families, and improve the health of our communities. The task force will report its findings and completed framework before the convening of the Hawai’i State Legislature’s 2024 regular session. The Trauma-Informed Care Task Force members include representatives from the state’s major family-serving agencies, as well as those from important nonprofit and community organizations serving families across our islands . Tia L. R. Hartsock, project director of Data to Wisdom within the Child & Adolescent Mental Health Division, serves as chair. Meetings are held every last Tuesday of the month, from 10 a.m. to noon. Details for each meeting are published on the state’s public meetings calendar . The task force is creating a framework for trauma-informed and trauma-responsive practice for statewide adoption. The framework will include, but not be limited to: Definitions of what constitutes trauma-informed care and response practice that can be applied to any school, health care provider, law enforcement agency, community organization, state agency, or other entity that has contact with children/youth; Clear examples of how individuals and institutions may implement trauma-informed and responsive practices across different domains, including organizational leadership, workforce development, policy and evaluation; Strategies for preventing and addressing secondary traumatic stress for professionals and providers; An implementation and sustainability plan, including a coordinated data collection/evaluation plan with metrics for assessing framework progress; Best practices, including those from native Hawaiian cultural practices; as well as regarding research and strategies from local trauma-informed care practitioners. Meeting Materials All meeting materials, including meeting recordings, minutes and handouts, are available by year and then month: 2024 2023 2022 2021 (September-December) Newsletter If you’d like to be added to our mailing list, please send an email with your contact information to Lyndsey Anderson, a task force member, at [email protected] with the subject line Re: Task Force List. Resources Contact Questions? Want to get in touch? Email Scott Shimabukuro, a task force chair person, at [email protected] , or Casey Park, a task force member, at [email protected] . About Us Program Directory Info Line 808-586-4400 Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact e-mail Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://health.hawaii.gov/camhd/files/2022/02/TICTF-MemberBios-220201.pdf) ---
Jocelyn Howard
Founder, Chief Executive Officer
We Are Oceania
With her ancestry and childhood rooted in Onoun (a small island in Chuuk state, geographically
located between Chuuk Lagoon and Yap Outer Island), Josie Howard possesses a deep cultural
understanding of the people of Micronesia that is woven into her success today – paving a path for
the thriving Micronesian community in Hawai ʻ i.
After her island education, she earned her bachelor’s degree in anthropology and minor in biology with a 
certification in Pacific island studies from the University of Hawai ʻ i at Hilo. She later got her master’s degree in social work
and certificate in Pacific island studies from the University of Hawai ʻ i at Mānoa. Josie continues to humbly and strongly
uphold her values and respect for her culture and the culture of others, advocating for the overall health and well-being of
people.
Josie Howard is the founder and CEO of We Are Oceania, empowering the Micronesian community in Hawai ʻ i to navigate
success while honoring the integrity of their diverse heritage.
Judith F. Clark
Executive Director
Hawai ʻ i Youth Services Network (HYSN)
Judith Clark, MPH, is the Executive Director of Hawai ʻ i Youth Services Network (HYSN), a statewide
coalition of youth-serving organizations and a Pacific Islands training and technical assistance
center. She facilitates and leads multi-agency initiatives addressing youth homelessness, teen
pregnancy and sexually transmitted infection prevention, and other issues in Hawai ʻ i and the
Northern Mariana Islands. HYSN is recognized nationally as a leader in adapting evidence-based
programs and creating culturally relevant videos for Pacific Island youth. 
HYSN has received the Horizon Award for Excellence in Health Education from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
the SAMHSA Excellence in Community Communications and Outreach Award. Judith was named Hawai ʻ i’s Outstanding
Advocate for Children and Youth by the Hawai ʻ i State Legislature and she is a 3-time winner of the Weinberg Foundation’s
AIM for Excellence Award for outstanding nonprofit management. She is a member of the public health honor society,
Delta Omega, for lifetime achievements in public health.
Cathy Betts
Director
Department of Human Services, State of Hawai'i
Cathy Betts is the Director of the Hawai‘i Department of Human Services where she continues to
further the department’s vision through her experience, advocacy and commitment to helping
the people of Hawai‘i thrive. She served as the deputy director from 2017 through August 2020.
Prior to serving as deputy, she successfully led the Hawai‘i State Commission on the Status of
Women for nearly six years and oversaw several legislative and policy successes, including: the final passage
of the Compassionate Care Act, which ensures rape victims have access to emergency contraception emergency rooms in
Hawai‘i; various state Title IX reforms to ensure Hawai‘i continues to protect and preserve the late Congresswoman Patsy
Mink's legacy; protections for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault; reforms for temporary restraining order
process; and increased training on gender-based violence. Betts has also practiced in government and private legal
practice since 2006.
Betts earned her B.A. in sociology from the University of California at Los Angeles and her juris doctorate from the
University of Hawai‘i, William S. Richardson School of Law, where she served as the Patsy T. Mink Legislative Fellow in the
late Senator Daniel K. Inouye's Washington D.C. office.
She is currently on the board of directors for the Hawai ʻ i Filipino Lawyers Association, and previously chaired the HSBA
Diversity, Equality and the Law Committee (DEAL). She also sits on the Committee on Equality and Access to the Courts.
She formerly served on the Board of Directors for Hawai ʻ i Women Lawyers, Hawai ʻ i Women in Filmmaking, and the National
Association of Commissions for Women.
Betts was recognized as one of four YWCA Women's Leader Awardees in 2020. In February 2021, the Hawai‘i Women’s
Legal Foundation presented Betts with the Rhoda Lewis Award in recognition of her extraordinary contributions and
commitment to public service. Betts was also awarded the Soroptimist International Ruby Award for Central O’ahu in 2018
and was one of six grantees of the United States Department of Labor’s Paid Leave Analysis grants in 2016.
Molly Bradley-Ryk
Juvenile Counselor
Juvenile Crime Prevention Division, Maui County Police Department
Molly Bradley-Ryk is a Juvenile Counselor with Maui Police Department’s Juvenile Crime
Prevention Division. She majored in Psychology at New Mexico State University and graduated in
2004. Prior to moving to Maui, Molly worked in mental health and substance abuse case
management in New Mexico and Texas. She has lived on Maui for the last 14 years and she has
been with Maui Police Department since January 2014. Molly currently participates in various
networking groups within her community.
Adriane Abe
Program Specialist
First Circuit Family Court, Hawai ʻ i State Judiciary
Adriane Abe is currently a Program Specialist with the Judiciary. She has 30 years of
experience working in the juvenile justice system at the First Circuit Family Court, and is a
member of the State Juvenile Justice Innovation Group. Adriane was part of the founding
group of probation officers and judges who established the Hawai ʻ i Girls Court, which is
grounded in trauma-informed and gender-responsive care.
ACT 209, HB1322
TRAUMA-INFORMED CARE TASK FORCE
Coleen Momohara serves as the Early Childhood Educational Specialist for the Executive Office on
Early Learning. Currently, she is also serving as the office’s Interim Director. Coleen has been
involved in working with children, adolescents, families and educators as a group facilitator,
coach and teacher over the past 40 years. Her professional interests include family relationships,
learning and development, literacy, social and emotional well-being, educational pedagogy and
professional learning communities.Coleen Momohara
Early Childhood Educational Specialist, Interim Director
Executive Office on Early Learning
Fern Yoshida
Educational Specialist
Hawai ʻ i State Department of Education
Fern Yoshida is the Hawai ʻ i State Department of Education’s (HIDOE) educational specialist for
social-emotional learning and trauma-informed practices. She is also a grant project director for
Ho`oikaika: Cultivating Resilience and Recovery Program that offers trauma-specific therapy for
identified students of need. Previously, she worked as the Standards Specialist, coordinating efforts
to update and improve standards-based tools and resources. Fern’s experience further extends with the
development and innovation of teacher evaluation systems and the improvement of Hawai ʻ i’s Multi-tiered
System of Support.
Lauren S. Nahme 
Vice President of Strategy and Transformation 
Kamehameha Schools
Lauren Nahme is the Vice President for Strategy & Transformation at Kamehameha Schools.
Her group's primary kuleana is to support the CEO toward the successful implementation of
KS’ Strategic Plan 2020, never losing sight of the bigger vision of a thriving Native Hawaiian
 community. The plan envisions KS and its community collaborators working together to  
have a greater collective impact with and for Native Hawaiians. She and her team are charged to  
provide both long-range vision-casting support for executives and trustees while also providing alignment and
implementation support for short and mid-term progress across the enterprise. Demonstrating and encouraging
innovation, entrepreneurial mindsets, and cross-functional collaboration are also a significant part of her team's role in
the transformation efforts of the organization.
Since January of 2010, Nahme has served Kamehameha as director of Strategic Planning and Implementation providing
direct support to the chief executive officer on strategic planning efforts.
Nahme began her KS career in 2006, serving for four years as the organization’s controller, responsible for financial
and investment reporting, accounting operations, procurement and budget. Prior to joining Kamehameha, she was
chief financial officer for the Hawaii State Federal Credit Union, a local construction company, controller at City Bank
and audit manager at Coopers & Lybrand. Nahme holds a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the
University of Hawai ʻ i at Mānoa and a graduate fr om Pearl City High School.
Nahme dedicates herself to several community organizations. They include the Public Schools of Hawaii Foundation,
University of Hawaii Alumni Association, Hawaii Association of Independent Schools, The Institute for Human Services,
and the Entrepreneurs Foundation of Hawaii.
Dr. Gavin Takenaka
Corrections Health Care Administrator
Department of Public Safety
Dr. Gavin Takenaka has worked as a mental health professional in Hawai ʻ i for more than 30 years
in a variety of settings including inpatient, outpatient, crisis shelter, corrections and private
practice. He began his work in the Hawai ʻ i Department of Public Safety in 2005 at the O‘ahu
Community Correctional Center. In 2006, he provided clinical oversight for the delivery of mental
health services at the Halawa Correctional Facility. Dr. Takenaka spent the next 10 years as the Mental
Health Section Administrator for the Halawa Correctional Facility. In 2017, he served as the Mental Health Branch
Administrator, overseeing mental health service delivery at correctional facilities statewide for the Department of Public
Safety. In 2019, Dr. Takenaka started his current position as the Corrections Health Care Administrator where he oversees
the provision of medical, mental health, dental and other specialty healthcare services for the Department of Public Safety.
Tia L. R. Hartsock is a trainer and independent consultant, and does research and
evaluation for nonprofits, state departments and federal agencies. Additionally, she is the current
Project Director of a federal Substance Abuse, Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)
initiative to develop and improve processes that utilize data and evidence-based research to inform
clinical decision-making in the Child and Adolescent Mental Health Division and Department of Health. Tia has had an
appointment as an Adjunct Lecturer at the University of Hawai‘i's School of Social Work since 2017. She received her
master’s in criminal justice administration from Chaminade University with a specialization in juvenile justice and her
master’s in social work from the University of Hawai ʻ i with a specialization focus in mental health.
She was previously the project director on another federal initiative with SAMHSA to develop and provide mental health
services for adolescent female trauma survivors involved in the juvenile justice, mental health and/or the child welfare
systems. In that capacity, she oversaw multi-agency collaborations to improve Hawai‘i's mental health system’s delivery of
services for trauma survivors from a gender-specific and trauma-informed foundation. She is a certified trainer by
SAMHSA’s Gains Center on Trauma-Informed Care. Ms. Hartsock has been working to improve the child- and adult-serving
systems in mental health and criminal justice in Hawai‘i for more than 20 years.Tia L. R. Hartsock
Project Director of Data to Wisdom
Child & Adolescent Mental Health Division
Hawai'i State Department of Health
Dr. Jillian Freitas 
Clinical Psychologist with University of Hawaii  
Dept. of Native Hawaiian Health
John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of Hawai ʻ i at Mānoa
Jillian Freitas, PsyD, is a licensed clinical psychologist with University Health
 Partners of Hawaii and an Assistant Professor with the University of Hawaii,   John A. Burns  
School of Medicine, Department of Native Hawaiian Health. Dr. Freitas was born and raised in
Mililani, O'ahu, and graduated from Kamehameha Schools Kapalama. She obtained her
undergraduate degree at Chapman University (Orange, CA) and her doctoral degree in child
and adolescent clinical psychology at Pacific University (Hillsboro, OR). She returned home to
the islands to complete her pre- and post-doctoral training at Waianae Coast Comprehensive
Health Center before moving to Maui to develop a behavioral health program within the
Native Hawaiian Health Care System at Hui No Ke Ola Pono. Now, Dr. Freitas serves the lahui
through both clinical and academic endeavors–as an integrated primary care psychologist and
via curriculum building to support mental health for Native Hawaiian haumana at UH Manoa.
She enjoys living in a multigenerational home and exploring nature through the eyes of her
young daughter.
