Source URL: https://waihalana.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Wai Hālana – All about Floodplain Management and Flood Insurance Skip to content Search Search for: Wai Hālana All about Floodplain Management and Flood Insurance Menu Blog Floodplain Management Community Rating System (CRS) in Hawai'i Flood Maps Flood Insurance Publications Floodplain Management Publications Flood Hazard Mapping Publications Flood Insurance Publications Quick Guide: Floodplain Management in Hawai'i Meet “Sticky the Opihi” (Kid’s Activity Book) Archived Newsletters Contact NFIP Contacts Emergency Management Agency Contacts Hawai'i NFIP Home Open Search Meet Maui County’s New Floodplain Administrator Sherilyn “Berry” Ueoka was born and raised in Wailuku, Maui. She is a licensed civil engineer with the Department of Public Works, Engineering Division since 2023. Berry has over 20 years of civil and coastal engineering experience in the private sector with specialized expertise in performing and integrating numerical models of coastal, estuarine, fluvial, and... Continue Reading → 30 Oct 2024 0 Key Fundamentals of Flood Insurance Webinar 2.0 Key Fundamentals of Flood Insurance for Agents 2.0 is a two-part course on FEMA's National Flood Insurance Program. This course brings participants the latest information on the NFIP, including instruction on the NFIP’s pricing methodology – Risk Rating 2.0: Equity in Action. Key Fundamentals of Flood Insurance for Agents 2.0 also reviews the key elements that insurance agents need to know about the NFIP and how it works. 30 Oct 2024 0 New flood maps could affect Oʻahu homeowners Hawai'i News Now By Edward ZhangPublished: Oct. 17, 2024 18 Oct 2024 0 FEMA unveils updated Flood Risk Maps for Oʻahu; residents invited to informational open houses O‘AHU – The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Department of Land and Natural Resources (DLNR), and the City and County of Honolulu (City) invite Oʻahu residents, especially home and business owners, to attend an important informational open house on significant updates to FEMA’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) for Oʻahu. Since 2019, FEMA has undertaken an... Continue Reading → 18 Oct 2024 0 View Oʻahu’s Preliminary FIRM Maps Flood risks change over time. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) works with communities across the country to identify flood hazards and promote ways to reduce the impacts and risks. Since 2019, FEMA has been conducting the Oʻahu Flood Hazard Restudy by performing detailed hydrologic and hydraulic studies using the latest high-quality data to analyze... Continue Reading → 10 Oct 2024 0 Increasing O‘ahu’s Resiliency through the Long-Term Disaster Recovery Plan Long-term disaster recovery begins months or years after a major disaster is declared and ramps up as response, relief, and short-term funding and activities taper off. Preparing for long-term disaster recovery has become increasingly important, especially as climate change accelerates the frequency and severity of catastrophic natural disasters. Recognizing this, the City has developed its... Continue Reading → 11 Sep 2024 0 Welcome Ben Sullivan, New Resilience Office Executive Director! Mayor Rick Blangiardi has appointed Ben Sullivan to Executive Director and Chief Resilience Officer for the Mayor’s Office of Climate Change, Sustainability and Resiliency. Ben stepped into the role on Sept. 3, 2024, and fills the vacancy left by Matthew Gonser, the former Executive Director. After more than two years long distance following a tremendous... Continue Reading → 11 Sep 2024 0 National Flood Insurance Program: Information to Help Prepare for the Storm As Tropical Storm Hone moves away from Hawai'i, Hurricane Gilma poses an additional flood risk later this week. FEMA and its National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) are standing by to assist you and your community as you work towards preparation and recovery. Below are resources available for your use. All resources may be shared with... Continue Reading → 26 Aug 2024 0 Hawai'i is Hitting its Peak Hurricane Season – Are You Prepared? Hurricanes are not just a coastal problem. Find out how rain, wind, water and even tornadoes could happen far inland from where a hurricane or tropical storm makes landfall. Start preparing now. 22 Aug 2024 0 FEMA Issues Preliminary FIRMS Based on Updated Flood Studies for Dozens of Streams on Oʻahu The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has delivered preliminary flood maps for the City and County of Honolulu. The maps identify updated flood hazards along numerous streams throughout Oʻahu. The flood maps will help building officials, contractors, and homeowners make effective mitigation decisions, thereby contributing to safer and more disaster resilient communities. FEMA distributed the... Continue Reading → 2 Aug 2024 0 Posts navigation Older posts Up ↑ Subscribe to our Blog ! Wai Hālana Flood Risks & Flood Insurance Basics / Proudly powered by WordPress Theme: Baskerville 2. Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
