Source URL: https://www.cid.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawaii's Creative Industries Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii Hawaii's Creative Industries Search this site Search button Home Creative Industries Film Interactive Media Literary Arts & Publishing Performing Arts & Music Visual Arts Creative Lab Hawaii News Resources Page Reports Entrepreneurs Sandbox Studio Contact Us Creative Hawaii Metrics Creative Lab Hawaii Contact Us Aloha Mai Kākou, Thank you for your flexibility during the past several years as we all navigated through some global circumstances that impacted us all. Below is some information and updates to let you know of the ongoings within the Creative Industries Division. OFFICES: CID – to include the Hawai‘i Film Office (HFO) – is open to the public. If you wish to visit, or have an in-person meeting, please contact us and we can arrange a time to meet, either at our home office, or at the Entrepreneurs Sandbox . Our home office is located on the fifth floor at 250 S. Hotel Street, Honolulu, HI 96813. FACILITIES: Our facilities inside the Entrepreneurs Sandbox and Diamond Head Film Studio are open, and we highly recommend contacting us if you have any questions or wish to coordinate a tour of the facilities. The Diamond Head Studio is frequently occupied by active film productions, so access needs to be coordinated if a tour is requested. FILM PERMITS: For information on film permits, visit filmoffice.hawaii.gov/state-film-permits/ For updates, please continue to visit this website and our respective websites at: filmoffice.hawaii.gov and creativelab.hawaii.gov Please be well and continue to stay safe. – Georja Skinner, Chief Officer Read More Read More Read More Read More Read More Read More About Us Contact Us Site Map Events Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy (808) 586-2590 Contact Email Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
