Source URL: https://www.mybenefits.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
MyBenefits Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaii MyBenefits Search this site Search Home News Med-QUEST Determinations Am I Eligible? Apply On-Line for Benefits Access MyBenefits Nondiscrimination policy News Special Enrollment Periods Posted on April 28, 2016 Consumers’ Last Chance to Enroll for 2016 Healthcare Coverage Quickly Approaches Posted on January 26, 2016 Enroll for Medical Coverage by Dec. 15 to Avoid a Break in Coverage Posted on November 17, 2015 2015 Annual Plan Change Deadline Extended to October 30, 2015 Posted on October 23, 2015 Read More Entries from News Information How to Access a Medical Assistance Application Special Enrollment Periods Required Information to Complete a Medical Assistance Application Receiving Benefits Appeals Programs Overview of Medical Assistance Hawaii Health Care Premium Assistance Program Need Help? The online KOLEA portal supports many browsers and configurations. For the best application experience use one of the below browsers. To download a browser to your computer system, click on its name. Google Chrome 28 and later version Mozilla Firefox 22 and later version Internet Explorer 8, 9 or 10 Apple Safari 6 and later version KOLEA Portal User Guide Med-QUEST Division Contact Information Kōkua In-person Help Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) About Us Site Map Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Related Links Register to Vote Contact Us 1 (877) 628-5076 TTY/TDD users call 1-855-585-8604 Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://mybenefits.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/LEP-and-Nondiscrimination-Notices.pdf) ---
Rev. 01/27/15 Do you need help in another language?  We will get you a free interpreter.  Call 808-586-4993  to tell us which 
language you speak.  English  
您需要其它語言嗎？如有需要 , 請致電 808-586-4993, 我們會提供免費翻譯服務  Cantonese  
En mi niit alilis lon pwal eu kapas? Sipwe angei emon chon chiaku ngonuk ese kamo. Kokori 808-586-4993  
omw kopwe ureni kich meni kapas ka ani.  Chuukese  
Avez -vous besoin d'aide dans  une autre langue? Nous pouvons vous fournir gratuitement des services d'un 
interprète. Appelez le 808-586-4993  pour nous indiquer quelle langue vous parlez.  French  
Brauchen Sie Hilfe in einer andereren Sprache?  Wir koennen Ihnen gern einen kostenlosen Dolmetscher 
besorgen. Bitte rufen Sie uns an unter 808-586-4993  und sagen Sie uns Bescheid, welche Sprache Sie 
sprechen.   German  
Makemake `oe i kokua i pili kekahi `o lelo o na `aina `e? Makemake la maua i ki`i `oe mea unuhi manuahi. E 
kelepona 808-586-4993  `oe ia la kaua a e ha`ina `oe ia la maua mea `olelo o na `aina `e.  Hawaiian  
Masapulyo kadi ti tulong iti sabali a pagsas ao? Ikkandakayo iti libre nga paraipatarus. Awaganyo ti 
808-586-4993  tapno ibagayo kadakami no ania ti pagsasao nga ar -aramatenyo.Ilokano  
貴方は、他の言語に、助けを必要としていますか  ? 私たちは、貴方のために、無料で  通訳を用意で  
きます。電話番号の、 808-586-4993に、電話して、私たちに貴方の話されている言語を申し出てください。  Japanese  
다른언어로  도움이  필요하십니까 ? 저희가  무료로  통역을  제공합니다 . 808-586-4993 로 전화해서  
사용하는  언어를  알려주십시요  Korean  
您需要其它 语言吗？如有需要 ,请致电 808-586-4993, 我们会提供 免费翻译服务  Mandarin  
Kwoj aikuij ke jiban kin juon bar kajin? Kim naj lewaj juon am dri ukok eo ejjelok wonen. Kirtok 
808-586-4993  im kwalok non kim kajin ta eo kwo melele im kenono kake.Marshallese  
E te mana'o mia se fesosoani i se isi gagana? Matou te fesosoani e ave atu fua se faaliliu upu mo oe. Vili mai i 
le numera lea 808-586-4993  pea e mana'o mia se fesosoani mo se faaliliu upu.  Samoan  
¿Necesita a yuda en otro idioma? Nosotros le ayudaremos a conseguir un intérprete gratuito. Llame al 
808-586-4993  y diganos que idioma habla.Spanish  
Kailangan ba ninyo ng tulong sa ibang lengguwahe? Ikukuha namin  kayo ng libreng taga salin. Tumawag sa 
808-586-4993  para sabihin kung anong lengguwahe ang nais ninyong gamitin.Tagalog  
'Oku ke fiema'u tokoni 'iha lea makehe? Te mau malava 'o 'oatu ha fakatonulea ta'etotongi. Telefoni ki he 
808-586-4993  'o fakaha mai pe koe ha 'ae lea fakafonua 'oku ke ngaue'aki.Tongan  
Bạn có c ần giúp đ ỡ bằng ngôn ng ữ khác không ? Chúng tôi se yêu c ầu một ngư ời thông d ịch viên mi ễn phí 
cho b ạn. Gọi 808-586-4993  nói cho chúng tôi bi ết bạn dùng ngôn ng ữ nào?  Vietnamese  
Việt  Nam  
Gakinahanglan ka ba ug tabang sa imong  pinulongan? Amo kang mahatagan ug libre nga maghuhubad. 
Tawag sa 808-586-4993  aron magpahibalo kung unsa ang imong sinulti -han Visayan  
(Cebuano)

--- Text from PDF (https://mybenefits.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Portal-User-Guide.pdf) ---
Department of Human Services   
Med-QUEST Division 
Kauhale On-Line  
Eligibility Assistance  (KOLEA) Project  
MyBenefits.Hawaii.Gov 
 
Online User Guide 
Submitted: Version 2.1 
Submitted Date: October 19, 2015 
 kpmg.com 
 
 
i 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
Revision History 
  
Version Date Description of Updates Author 
1.0 12/23/2014 Final Document Release 2 Matthew Grifone 
2.0 09/30/2015 First Draft – FFM Module 1 Michael Senior 
2.1 10/19/2015 QA Review Nicole Chiominto 
 
   
ii 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
Table of Contents  
1. Introduction 1  
1.1 Document Overview 1  
2. Application Pre-Assessment 2  
3. Application 5  
3.1 User Registration 5  
3.2 Apply 8  
3.3 Save and Exit 28  
4. Account Management 30  
4.1 My Applications 30  
4.2 My Eligibility 31  
4.3 My Verifications 32  
4.4 My Documents 34  
4.4.1 Notices 34  
4.4.2 Upload Verification Document 36  
4.4.3 Upload Form 41  
4.5 Change of Circumstance 44  
4.5.1 Predefined Change of  Circumstance 44  
4.5.2 Other Change of Circumstance 47  
4.6 Paperless Preference 48  
4.7 Appeals 50  
5. Contact Us 52  
  
1 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
1. Introduction 
1.1 Document Overview 
This document is intended to provide an overview of the Portal for Individuals and Families (the 
“Portal”). The Portal is divided into three main sections which are outlined below: 
 The Application Pre-Assessment section details  the Screening tool, which allows you to 
enter data anonymously to see if you are likely to qualify for assistance including 
Advance Premium Tax Credits or Medicaid.  
 The Application section describes the process for creating a user account, and starting, 
saving and submitting an application. It includes a walkthrough of the application entry process for a family of three.  
 The Account Management section includes walkthroughs of all functionality available to 
applicants with an existing user account, including viewing application and eligibility 
information, verification items, uploaded documents, reporting change of circumstance, 
and appeals. 
 For any questions or concerns, refer to the Contact Us  section. 
 
   
2 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. Application Pre-Assessment  
1. By answering a few questions in the Application Pre-Assessment , you can determine 
if you are eligible to receive assistance to help pay for health coverage. This feature is 
anonymous and neither a user account or application is required. No information input 
into the Application Pre-Assessment  is used for determination, as all eligibility 
determinations require the submittal of an application. The following section provides an 
example of the Application Pre-Assessment  feature. Click on the Pre-Assessment  
button under Am I Eligible?   
 
 
       
  
 
3 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. Click on Next  to continue. 
 
3. Answer all questions and click Next  to continue.   
 
 
 
4 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4. The Portal will conduct a pre-assessment for eligibility for assistance. If you want to re-
do the pre-assessment, click the Back  button. If you want to file an application click the 
Close  button and click Apply Now . If you want to purchase health insurance without 
assistance click on the hyperlink under Don’t Need Assistance . 
 
5 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
3. Application 
This process describes the process to create, save and submit an application. 
Note:  If you do not have an email address and want to  apply for assistance, you can choose to 
submit a paper application. Paper applications can be picked up at any Department of Human 
Services  office. Once filled out, applications can be faxed or dropped off at any DHS office. 
3.1 User Registration 
A User Account is required in order to create an application. This process describes the steps to 
create a new account within the online system. 
1. Navigate to the homepage and select Apply Now . 
 
 
    
 
  
 
6 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. Select Create a New Account . 
 
3. Select Individual  in User Type  and complete the required information indicated with an 
asterick (*). Click the Register  button. 
 
 
 
  
 
7 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4. An account has now been created. Select Login Now  to create an application.  
 
  
 
8 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
3.2 Apply 
1. Enter the username and password created in User Registration . 
  
 
 
  
 
9 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. You will be required to complete the security  process the first time you log in. This 
screen explains the security images and security questions that are available.  
 
 
3. The image shown here will be the secure image that will be visible during login. You may 
select another image if you like. 
 
 
10 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4. You will be asked to pick and answer three security questions for future security use.  
Please remember the answers to these questi ons. If you forget your password you will 
be asked to answer one of these questions in order to reset your password. 
 
 
5. The Portal uses a federal service to validate your identity. Answer the questions in the 
required fields. 
 
 
11 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
6. The federal service will return three challenge questions to confirm your identity. Answer 
the required questions and click Next . 
 
 
Note : If you are unable to answer the questions correctly in three attempts, you will be 
presented with a contact number and a reference number. If you want to continue the 
process, call the number presented and provide the reference number. This is a 
separate process through a Federal service. The Department of Human Services  will 
not be able to help you. Instead of completing this process, you can pick up a paper 
application from any DHS office. Once filled out, paper applications can be faxed or 
dropped off at any DHS office.  
  
 
12 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
7. Once the security image and questions are selected and answered, and the remote 
identify proofing is complete, the Portal will search for an existing application. If you 
already have an existing case, the Portal will give you the option to link your account. 
Select Link Account  to do so.  
 
 
8. Your account is now linked to your exist ing case. To view what to do next, refer to 
Account Management .  
 
 
13 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
9. If you choose not to link your account or do not have an existing account, navigate to the 
My Applications  tab and click New Application .  
 
 
  
 
14 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
10. If you successfully completed the remote identity proofing process, the Portal will 
prepopulate your information in the application. Confirm the information and make 
changes if necessary. If there is any information missing, enter the information in the 
required fields. Required fields are annotated with an asterisk (*).  You will not be able to 
continue on until all required fields are complete. 
 
Note :  If you did not complete the remote identity proofing process you will NOT  be able 
to submit an application on-line. Complete the identity proofing process or file a paper 
application. 
   
 
15 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
11. The Portal matches the address with the U.S. Postal Service and returns a standardized 
address. You have the option of picking either  the provided address or the standardized 
address. Confirm the correct address and click Next . 
 
  
 
16 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
12. Enter the required information in the fields for the Primary Applicant Details . This is the 
person who will receive all eligibility notices. 
 
 
17 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
13. If you have more people in your household, use the Add Person  button in the 
Household Details  section.  
 
 
  
 
18 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
14. Once all household members have been entered, the Household Details  page will 
provide the option to edit or remove a member. To edit a member, click the blue button. 
To remove a member, click the red button. To add a member, click the Add Person  
button. The Primary Applicant is editable, but not removable.  
 
 
  
 
19 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
15. The next screen prompts you to validate t he relationships previously built in the 
Household Details  section. Validate the relationships and click Next . If the relationships 
are incorrect, use the check boxes provided to correct the relationships.  
 
  
 
20 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
16. If a household member has existing health coverage, select Yes and enter the required 
information. If no one in the household has existing health coverage, select No and click 
Next .  
 
  
 
21 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
17. If a household member has health coverage from an employer, select Yes and enter the 
required information. If that person has health coverage from another employer, click the 
Add Employer  button. You will then select which household member is the employee 
receiving health insurance. If no one in the household has health insurance from an 
employer, select No and click Next .  
 
 
   
 
      
 
22 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
18. If a household member is American Indian or Alaskan Native, select Yes and complete 
the required fields. If no one in the household is American Indian or Alaskan Native, 
select No and click Next . 
 
 
        
 
23 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
19. If you would like to include an Authorized Representative, select Yes and complete the 
required fields. If you would not like to include an Authorized Representative, select No 
and click Next.
 
 
  
 
24 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
20. The Portal matches the Authorized Representative’s address with the U.S. Postal 
Service and returns a standardized address. You have the option of picking either the 
provided address or the standardized address.  Confirm the correct address and click 
Next . 
 
 
  
 
25 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
21. Read the Terms and Conditions , answer the eligibility renewal and parent living 
outside the home questions, and electronically sign the application. You must agree to 
the Terms and Conditions  in order to submit the application.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
22. You can review all information entered in the application in the Application 
Confirmation  screen. To review the information, click on the appropriate section under 
Application Confirmation . The section will expand for you to view the information you 
entered previously in the application.  To edit the information, click on the Edit button. 
After confirmation of the information, click Finish  to submit the application. 
 
 
   
 
       
 
27 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
23. The application has been successfully submitt ed and you are now able to view your 
account.  
 
  
 
28 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
3.3 Save and Exit 
1. At any point in the application, you have the option to save and exit the application and 
return later to finish the application. To save and exit the application, click Save & Exit . 
The Portal will only save information provided up to the previous screen before clicking 
the Next  button. To avoid losing data on your current screen, click Next  before clicking 
Save & Exit .  
 
 
2. To retrieve the application, find the saved application in the My Application  tab and 
click Continue .  
 
 
 
29 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
3. You will return to the place in the application where it was last saved.   
 
 
30 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4. Account Management 
You are able to manage your account using the following tabs: 
 My Applications 
 My Eligibility 
 My Verifications 
 My Documents 
 Change of Circumstance 
 Paperless Preference 
 Appeals 
4.1 My Applications 
The My Applications  tab allows you to view key information about your application: 
 Application ID 
 Application Type 
 Application Status 
 Date Submitted 
The My Applications  tab also allows you to cancel your application before it is processed by 
clicking Cancel . You can also retrieve and finish saved applications here.  
 
  
 
31 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.2 My Eligibility 
The My Eligibility  tab allows you to view the details of eligibility and the Health Insurance Plans 
for each member of the household.  
1. To access the eligibility description, select the My Eligibility  tab on the left.  
 
2. To view the description, click the button on the left of the household member.  
 
 
 
32 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.3 My Verifications 
The My Verifications  tab allows you to view verification items for all members in the household. 
Verification items, such as US Citizenship and Social Security Number documentation, are 
important to help verify the information pr ovided in your application and determine your eligibility 
for healthcare.Items that have been verified eit her electronically, manually or are missing or 
conflicting will appear the day after processing. For new applications, verification items will 
appear only after the application has been submitted and processed.  
1. To access the verification items, select the My Verifications  tab on the left side of the 
screen. This page shows the verification items for each household member including the due date and status of each verification item. To upload outstanding verification items, 
click Upload  next to the appropriate verification item. After clicking Upload , the Portal 
will shift to the My Documents  tab. Refer to Upload Verification Documents  for 
uploading verification documents.  
 
  
 
33 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. You may view uploaded verification items in the My Documents  tab. To view the 
uploaded documents, select Other Documents  in the dropdown. You are able to see 
the documents that have been uploaded, but are not able to open the document.  
 
34 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.4 My Documents 
The My Documents  tab allows you to view notices and upload documents such as verification 
items and forms. This process describes t he steps for viewing notices and uploading forms and 
verification documents.  
Note:  Verification items are documents that help  verify the information provided in your 
application. Forms are documents supplied by the D epartment of Human Services for you to 
provide additional information or make additional requests and applications.  
4.4.1 Notices 
Notices  are sent to communicate eligibility related information to you once you apply for 
healthcare. Notices are created for purposes that include requests for additional information, 
communication of eligibility, and other informational purposes. Examples include the N01 – 
Request for Additional Information notice, which asks you to provide additional information to 
support your application, and the N03 – Eligibility Determination  notice, which informs you of 
your healthcare eligibility. 
 1. You are able to view notices in the My Documents  tab. To view a notice, click on the 
My Documents  tab on the left side of the screen. Select Notices  as the document type 
in the dropdown. To open the notice, select View  next the appropriate notice.  
 
 
 
 
35 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. From here, you can view the notice and have the option to save or print the document.  
 
 
 
         
 
  
 
36 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.4.2 Upload Verification Document 
1. You are able to upload verification documents and forms. Prior to uploading documents, 
be sure they are in one of the acceptable file types. Click on the Upload  button on the 
My Documents  tab.  
 
  
 
37 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. Select the appropriate file type. Select the type of verification document that will be 
uploaded. Select the household member that the verification document applies. If the 
document applies to more than one household member, select Yes and specify the 
additional information.  
Note:  Valid file types for documents include .tiff, .tif, .jpeg , .jpg & .pdf. 
 
 
  
 
38 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
3. To upload the document, select the Browse  button and find the document on the 
computer.  
 
  
 
39 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4. To complete the upload, read the Rules for Uploading Documents , click the 
confirmation of terms and conditions, and click Upload . If you make a mistake and want 
to re-do or cancel the upload, click the Cancel  button. 
 
 
  
 
40 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
5. The Verification Document  has now been successfully submitted.  
 
  
 
41 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.4.3 Upload Form 
Forms are documents supplied by the Department of Human Services for you to submit 
applications and provide additional information with respect to your submitted application. You 
can download a DHS Form using the link “ DHS Forms ” at the bottom of the screen. Once filled 
out with relevant information, the electronic form can be uploaded using the following steps.  
 
1. To upload a form, select the My Documents  tab and click Upload . Click DHS Forms  on 
the bottom of the page to find the forms for you to complete. Before uploading the form, please confirm that the form is complete and is saved in an acceptable file format.  
Note:  Valid file types for documents include .tiff, .tif, .jpeg , .jpg & .pdf. 
 
 
  
 
42 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. Select the document type in the dropdown, then select the type of document to be 
uploaded.  
 
3. Follow the steps in Upload Verification Document  to complete the upload.  
  
 
43 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4. You are able to view uploaded forms and verification items in the My Documents  tab. 
To view the uploaded documents, select Other Documents  in the dropdown. You are 
able to see which documents have been uploaded, but you are not able to open the 
document. 
 
 
  
 
44 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.5 Change of Circumstance 
You may use the Change of Circumstance  tab to report one of seven types of change of 
circumstance. Additionally, there are eight other op tions to choose from within Other. Select the 
change of circumstance option and complete the required information. 
Note :  Only the Primary Applicant/Beneficiary is able to make changes and provide updates for 
all members in the case.  
4.5.1 Predefined Change of Circumstance 
You have the ability to submit one of six ty pes a of predefined change of circumstance: 
 Add A Household Member  
 Change of Address (Mailing or Residential)  
 Change of Income  
 Pregnancy  
 Change Contact Information  
 End My Benefits  
 
1. This example will describe reporting a change of address. Select Change of Address 
(Mailing or Residential)  and click Make Changes .  
 
 
 
45 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2. Select the appropriate Household Member  for the change of circumstance and click 
Edit.  
 
3. Enter the necessary information and click Next .  
 
 
 
 
46 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4. There is no confirmation of a successful submission. After submission, the Portal will 
redirect back to the Change of Circumstance  tab. 
 
  
 
47 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.5.2 Other Change of Circumstance 
You have the option to submit a change of circumstance that is not included in the predefined 
list. The Other  options include reporting: 
 Absent Parent 
 Authorized Rep 
 Death 
 Disability 
 Expenses 
 Incarceration 
 Remove a Household Member 
 Other 
 
1. You may pick one of these options and enter a explanation of the change of 
circumstance in the description box. If the Change of Circumstance  is not listed, select 
Other  and enter a description of the change. The eligibility worker assigned to the case 
will process the change of circumstance. 
 
  
 
48 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.6 Paperless Preference 
You have the option to enroll your account in a Paperless Preference . By choosing this option, 
you will receive your documents and certain notices electronically, and you will no longer 
receive paper documents in the mail. Select t he Paperless Preference option and follow the 
available links. 
 
1. To change your enrollment preference or update your email address, click the here  link.  
 
 
  
 
       
 
 
49 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
2.  Select Yes and fill out the required fields. Click Submit . 
 
 
3. View the confirmation and click My Applications  to return to view your applications. 
 
 
 
50 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
4.7 Appeals 
You may use the Appeals  tab to request an appeal if you think an eligibility determination has 
been applied incorrectly.  
1. To request an appeal, click on the Appeals  tab on the left side of the screen. 
 
2. Enter your contact information and a description of why you think your appeal should be 
accepted.  
 
 
51 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
 
 
3. Review your information and click Save . If you have to make any changes, click Cancel  
and make the necessary changes.  
 
4. After you click Save , the Portal will re-direct you to the My Applications  tab. You will not 
receive confirmation of a successful submission. Your request for an appeal will be sent 
to an eligibility worker to be processed. The eligibility worker will submit your appeal to 
the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) w here a decision on your appeal will be made. 
The AAO will contact you once a decision has been made on your appeal.  
 
 
52 
KOLEA FFM Integration Portal User Guide 
5. Contact Us  
1. To contact us with questions about your eligibility, click on the Contact Us  hyperlink at 
the bottom of the page. You can find the address and phone number for the office in 
your area here. You can submit paper applications at these locations.

--- Text from PDF (https://mybenefits.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/Org-Contacts-for-Website.pdf) ---
OAHU  
KALIHI-PĀLAMA HEALTH CENTER  
915 North King Street |Honolulu, HI 96817 | (808) 848 1438  
 
KŌKUA KALIHI VALLEY COMPREHENSIVE FAMILY SERVICES (KKV)  
2239 North School Street | Honolulu, HI 96819 | (808) 791 9400  
 
KOʻOLAULOA COMMUNITY HEALTH & WELLNESS CENTER (HAUʻULA) 
54-316 Kamehameha Highway | Hauʻula, HI 96717 | (808) 293 9216  
 
KOʻOLAULOA COMMUNITY HEALTH & WELLNESS CENTER (KAHUKU ) 
56-119 Pualalea Street | Kahuku, HI 96731 | (808) 293 9231  
 
LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF HAWAI‘I 
924 Bethel Street | Honolulu, HI 96813 | (808) 536 4302 option #2  
 
WAIʻANAE COAST COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH CENTER  
86-260 Farrington Highway | Waiʻanae, HI 96792 | (808) 697 3405  
 
WAIKIKI HEALTH CENTER  
277 Ohua Avenue | Honolulu, HI 96815 | (808) 922 4787  
 
WAIMĀNALO HEALTH CENTER  
41-1347 Kalaniana‘ole Highway | Waimānalo, HI 96795 | (808) 954 7113  
 
 
MAUI COU NTY 
MALAMA I KE OLA 
1881 Nani Street | Wailuku, HI 96793 | (808) 872 4002  
 
HANA HEALTH  
4590 Hāna Highway | Hāna, HI 96713 | (808) 248 8294  
 
LANA‘I COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER  
478 Lauhala Place | Lāna‘i City, HI 96763 | (808) 565 6919  
 
MOLOKAI COMMUNITY HEALTH  CENTER  
28 Kamoi Street, Suite 600 | Kaunakakai, HI 96748 | (808) 553 5038   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KAUAI   
HO’OLA LAHUI HAWAII , OUTREACH & ELIGIBILITY  
4491 Rice Street  | Lihue, HI 96766  | (808) 240 0160  
 
 
HAWAII ISLAND  
BAY CLINIC - HILO CLINIC 
1178 Kino‘ole St . - Bldg B | Hilo, HI 96720 | (808) 969 1427  
 
HAMAKUA HEALTH CENTER  
45-549 Plumeria Street | Honokaa, HI 96727 | (808) 775 7204  
 
HAWAII ISLAND WORKFORCE & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OHANA  
D58 Kinoole Street, Suite 101 | Hilo, HI 96720 | (808) 959 6200  
 
WEST HAWAI‘I COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER  
75-5751 Kuakini Highway, Ste 203 | Kailua -Kona, HI 96740 | (808) 326 3882  
 
 COMMUNITY PARTNERS  Contact  
for in -person assistance with health insurance applications for Medicaid or HealthCare.gov

--- Text from PDF (https://mybenefits.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/NPP-Privacy-Notice-2013.pdf) ---
NOTICE of PRIVACY PRACTICES                       
 Effective: 09/23/2013   
 
THIS NOTICE DESCRIBES HOW MEDICAL INFORMATION ABOUT YOU MAY BE USED AND 
DISCLOSED AND HOW YOU CAN GET ACCESS TO THIS INFORMATION.  PLEASE REVIEW IT CAREFULLY.             
    
The Hawaii Department of Human Services (DHS), Med- QUEST Division (MQD) is committed to 
protecting confidential information , including Personal, financial and medical data,  relating to 
your participation in the Hawaii Medicaid program. DHS  is required by the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act  (HIPAA) to maintain the privacy of your information, provide 
this notice to you, and must abide by the terms of this notice. If there are changes to these 
practices, a new notice will be mailed to you within sixty (60) days.  
 
YOUR RIGHTS TO PRIVACY  
 
Your medical information will not be shared and/or disclosed without your permission  except 
as described in this notice or required by law. You may authorize other disclosures by completing (form DHS 1123) , and  authorize another person to represent you with any and all 
matters relating to  the medical assistance program (form DHS 1121). You may also retract (in 
writing) th e authorizations  at any time . You may ask MQD staff for a copy of this notice at any 
time  and a n electronic copy of this notice is also available on MQD’s web site at 
www.med -
quest.us  . Any requests you may have of Med -QUEST must  be submitted in writing. All required 
DHS forms are available at MQD office s and the MQD website.  
 
MQD has procedures to assist you with your rights to your medical information. You have the 
right to: 
 
• Ask MQD to limit  the use and/or disclosure of your medical information. However, Med -
QUEST is not required by law to agree to your request. (form DHS 8028)  
 
• Ask MQD to Contact you by email or fax, at a specific mailing address or phone number.  
 
• Look at or have a copy of any part of the designated record set maintained by MQD. You may be charged a processing and postage fee for this request. (form DHS  1123  )  
  
• Change or add information to your designated record set  (form DHS 8024) . However, MQD 
may not change its original  document.  
 
• Provide a list of disclosures of your medical information made by MQD . This will not include 
disclosures for purposes of treatment, payment, health care operations; or disclosures made to you or with yo ur permission. (form DHS 8027)  
 
• Designate an authorized representative to assist with my application for medical assistance with the Department  (form DHS 1121)  
 
• Receive a notification of any Privacy and/or Security breach of confidential information maintained by DHS.
 
  
 
DHS 8030 (Rev. 09/13)   
CONFIDENTIALITY PRACTICES AND USES   
 
The Med- QUEST Division, may access, use and or share medical information:  
 
• Treatment - to appropriately determine approvals or denials of your medical treatment. For 
example, MQD health care professionals who may review your treatment plan by your 
health care provider for medical necessity.  
 
• Payment  - to determine your eligibility in the Medicaid program and make payment to your 
health care provider. For example, your health care provider may send claims for payment to the Medicaid fiscal agent for medical services provided to you, if appropriate.  
 
• Health Care Operations  - to evaluate the performance of a health plan or a health care 
provider. For example, MQD contracts with consultants who rev iew the records of hospitals 
and other organizations to determine the quality of care you received.  
 
• Informational Purposes  - to give you helpful information such as health plan choices, 
program benefit updates, free medical exams and consumer protection i nformation.   
 
DISCLOSURES NOT REQUIRING YOUR PERMISSION  
 MQD can make the following disclosures only if it is directly related to running of the  medic al 
assistance  programs, a court orders MQD to disclose the information, or other law s that re- 
quires MQD to disclose the information.  
  
• Other Government Agencies and/or Organizations Providing Benefits, Services or Disaster Relief - to disclose information to  other government agencies and/or organizations for you 
to receive those benefits and/or services offered.  
 
• Public Health - to disclose medical information to agencies for public health activities for 
disease control and prevention, problems with medical p roducts or medications, and 
victims of abuse, neglect or domestic violence.  
 
• Health Oversight Activities  - to disclose information to approved government agencies 
responsible for the Medicaid program, the U. S. Dept.  of Health and Human Services, and 
the Office of Civil Rights.   
 
• Judicial and Administrative Hearings  - to disclose specific medical information in court and 
administrative  proceedings.  
 
• Law Enforcement purposes  - to disclose specific medical information for law en -forcement 
purposes.  
 
• Coroners, Medical Examiners, and Funeral Directors  - to disclose specific medical 
information to authorized persons who need it to administer their work.  
 
• Organ Donation and Disease Registries  - to disclose specific medical information to 
authorized organizations involved with organ donation and transplantation, communicable disease registries, and cancer registries.  
 
 
  
 
DHS 8030 (Rev. 09/13)   
 
• Research Purposes -  to disclose specific medical information to authorize d personnel to 
work on research projects. However, unless the research is permitted by law. Y ou have the 
right to opt out of the research.  
 
 
• To Avert Serious Threat to Health, Safety or Emergency Situation - to disclose specific 
medical information to prevent a serious threat to the health and safety of an individual or 
the public.  
 
• Specialized Government Functions  - to disclose medical information for national security, 
intelligence and/or protective services for the President. MQD may also disclose health information to the appropriate military authorities if you are or have been a member of the U. S. armed forces.  
 
• Correctional Institutions  - to disclose medical information to correctional facility or law  
enforcement officials to maintain the health, safety and security of the corrections system.  
 
• Workers’ Compensation  - to disclose medical information to workers’ compensation 
programs that provide benefits for work -related injuries or illness without regard to fault.  
     
No one will get back at you for filing a complaint  
  
If you f eel that your privacy rights  have been violated.   You may file a complaint with:  
 
HIPAA Compliance manager  
PO Box 700190           
Kapolei, HI 96709 -0190   
 
You may also file a complaint w ith:     
 
DHS – Office of Civil rights  
P. O. Box 700190             
200 Independence Avenue, S. W. Room 509F HHH Bldg.  
Washington, DC 20201  
 
    
THIS NOTICE IS AVAILABLE IN BIGGER PRINT UPON REQUEST
