Source URL: https://www.hicares.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Home - Hawai‘i CARES 988 Skip to content If you’re in an emergency or if you fear you are in danger, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room. If you’re in an emergency or if you fear you are in danger, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room. Toggle Navigation Get Help Get Help for Yourself Get Help for Someone Else Aloha United Way 211 How We Help Crisis & Suicide Substance Use Mental & Emotional Health Child & Adolescent FAQs Learn About Mental Health Awareness Substance Use Disorder Suicide Prevention LGBTQIA+ Stories Resources Maui Wildfire Resources Resource Library Toolkits About 988 History Contact Send us Feedback Toggle Navigation Get Help Get Help for Yourself Get Help for Someone Else Aloha United Way 211 How We Help Crisis & Suicide Substance Use Mental & Emotional Health Child & Adolescent FAQs Learn About Mental Health Awareness Substance Use Disorder Suicide Prevention LGBTQIA+ Stories Resources Maui Wildfire Resources Resource Library Toolkits About 988 History Contact Send us Feedback Home Gwen Woltz 2023-10-19T08:19:09-10:00 Hawai‘i CARES 988 is a 24/7, FREE SUPPORT SERVICE for help with CRISIS, MENTAL HEALTH, and SUBSTANCE USE. Call 988 Text 988 Chat 988 No matter what, our local caring crisis counselors are here to support you. No matter what, our local, caring crisis counselors are here to support your needs. You have someone to talk to. Someone to respond. Somewhere to go. We provide someone to talk to. We have someone to respond. We have somewhere to go. Call 988 Text 988 Chat 988 Our hearts are with the people of Maui and all those impacted by the devastating Maui wildfires. Find Maui Wildfire Resources Help with crisis & thoughts of suicide Learn how we help Help with recovery resources for substance use Learn how we help Help with mental & emotional health Learn how we help Help for children & adolescents Learn how we help Your call is safe and confidential Knowledge is empowering Learn more about topics that can help you through crisis, improve your mental health, substance use recovery, and more. Browse topics Latest articles Managing Job Loss and Financial Stress by UH Manoa Mental Health Awareness Managing Job Loss and Financial Stress by UH Manoa Jackie Algas-Sasaki 2024-01-30T19:29:54-10:00 Categories: Mental Health Awareness | Tags: family , financial stress , job loss | Read More The Link Between Hormones and Mental Health by Vert Well Mind Mental Health Awareness The Link Between Hormones and Mental Health by Vert Well Mind Jackie Algas-Sasaki 2024-01-30T19:27:26-10:00 Categories: Mental Health Awareness | Tags: emotions , hormones , mental health | Read More Re-Entry Visits & Mental Health: Advice for Families with Keiki by Hawaiʻi State Mental Health Awareness , Parenting Re-Entry Visits & Mental Health: Advice for Families with Keiki by Hawaiʻi State Jackie Algas-Sasaki 2024-01-30T18:41:46-10:00 Categories: Mental Health Awareness , Parenting | Tags: lahaina , lahaina fires , maui , maui fires , parenting | Read More Effects of Bullying by StopBullying.gov LGBTQIA+ , Mental Health Awareness , Parenting , Suicide Prevention Effects of Bullying by StopBullying.gov Jackie Algas-Sasaki 2024-01-30T18:21:31-10:00 Categories: LGBTQIA+ , Mental Health Awareness , Parenting , Suicide Prevention | Tags: bullying , mental health , suicide prevention | Read More When should you contact 988? Sometimes something feels wrong, and you can’t explain why. You may feel hopeless, panicked, trapped, empty or in so much pain, nothing seems to help. This is the right time to pick up on the phone and call someone. At Hawai‘i CARES 988, we will always answer. It may not be you struggling. Someone you care about may be acting differently. Maybe their mood has changed drastically; maybe they’ve withdrawn from relationships; perhaps they’ve stopped sleeping or, the opposite, they can’t get out of bed; maybe they’ve started getting rid of things you know are special to them. These could all be warning signs of crisis. When you feel stress, sadness, anxiety, or loneliness and those feelings begin to interfere with your appetite, sleep, work or school. Emotional or mental health crisis learn more When you have dependency on alcohol or drugs, and you feel like you’ll never be free from the desire to use. Substance use disorder learn more If you are experiencing emotional or physical harm whether you have caused yourself harm, thoughts of suicide, or someone else has caused you harm. Abuse or harm learn more If you are an adolescent seeking mental health support, or someone seeking help for a child or adolescent. Child & adolescent learn more Call 988 Text 988 Chat 988 Pashyn Santos Averi and Mom Kamaka Pili Kumu Hina Stories from the heart From coming out stories to the meaning of māhū, you are not alone in your story. Watch more stories when you need help now Crisis Mobile Outreach If you need immediate assistance, you may request Crisis Mobile Outreach and we can get someone to you within the hour. Learn more Have you contacted 988 recently? We’d love to hear your feedback. Please take a short survey to help us improve our services. Complete our feedback survey Hawai‘i CARES 988 is brought to you by a collaboration between the State of Hawai‘i Department of Health, Behavioral Health Administration, CARE Hawai‘i Inc., and Aloha United Way 211. Quick Links Get Help How We Help Learn About Stories Resources About Contact Opt-out preferences Hawai‘i Wildfire Recovery and Resilience Resource Guide Call 988 Text 988 Chat 988 IF YOU HAVE A NUMBER THAT IS OUTSIDE THE (808) AREA CODE AND WISH TO BE CONNECTED WITH A HAWAI‘I CARES 988 LOCAL CRISIS COUNSELOR, PLEASE USE OUR DIRECT NUMBER. ( 808-832-3100 ) OR TOLL-FREE ( 800-753-6879 ). © Copyright 2002 - 2024 • Hawai‘i CARES 988 Privacy Policy | Accessibility Page load link Manage Cookie Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent Go to Top

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
