Source URL: https://www.honolulu.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Government Stay Informed, Stay Safe! Driver License & State ID Information HOT LINKS FEATURE COMMUNITY EVENTS News Releases Honolulu video news releases , events, and activities. Frequently Asked Questions About City jobs, State Identification card, Driver's License, Real Property etc. Forms Find all departments and agencies forms in one central location. SNO/SPO Stipulation Notice Stored Property Ordinance/Sidewalk Nuisance Ordinance Enforcement schedule will be posted ahead of time. Report a Pothole Fill in the requested information online or call the Pothole Report Phone Line. Road Repaving Update To find out your street repaving status. information on the page will be updated quarterly Find Your Refuse, Bulky item, and Recycling Pickup Find your collection schedules and the recycling programs. How do I get a Hawaii State ID? Learn about the types of supporting documents you will need to bring before apply. REAL ID Driver's License and State ID Learn about the REAL ID, why you need it and how to get one. HNL Info GIS Parcel and Zoning Moped Registration Information TOD Transit-Oriented Development Ala Wai Study City Jobs People's Open Market Blaisdell Center Master Plan Golf Course Division Information Satellite City Hall DaBus2-Oahu Bus App Traffic Cameras Honolulu Rail Transit (HART) Tsunami Evacuation Zone Document Guide for Driver's License & State ID Resilient O'ahu Go Akamai Neighborhood Commission Joint Traffic Management Center TheHandi-Van (Paratransit) 11 Nov 2024 12:00AM ¯ 12:00AM OFFICE CLOSED - Veteran's Day 11 Nov 2024 12:00AM ¯ 12:00AM Veterans' Day 19 Nov 2024 09:00AM ¯ Budget Committee 19 Nov 2024 01:00PM ¯ Executive Matters and Legal Affairs Committee 19 Nov 2024 02:30PM ¯ Transportation Committee 20 Nov 2024 09:00AM ¯ Zoning Committee Meeting 20 Nov 2024 01:00PM ¯ Parks, Enterprise Services and Culture and the Arts Committee 20 Nov 2024 01:30PM ¯ Planning Commission Meeting 20 Nov 2024 02:30PM ¯ Housing, Sustainability and Health Committee 21 Nov 2024 09:00AM ¯ Planning and the Economy Committee 21 Nov 2024 01:00PM ¯ Public Safety Committee 21 Nov 2024 02:30PM ¯ Public Infrastructure and Technology Committee 28 Nov 2024 12:00AM ¯ 12:00AM OFFICE CLOSED - Thanksgiving Day 28 Nov 2024 12:00AM ¯ 12:00AM Thanksgiving Holiday 30 Nov 2024 05:00PM ¯ 09:00PM Kapolei City Lights: Opening Night 04 Dec 2024 10:30AM ¯ Public Hearings for 1) Waimea Valley Economic Resiliency; 2) Donna and Jude Baker; and 3) Lukasz J. Maj and Mary L. Lan 11 Dec 2024 10:00AM ¯ City Council 25 Dec 2024 12:00AM ¯ 12:00AM OFFICE CLOSED - Christmas Day Office of the Mayor City Council Redirecting... If you are not redirected, please click this link . Details Last Updated: 09 August 2024 Phone Directory of Services List of department contacts Directory of Services FAQs city Jobs, State ID, Driver license... Frequently Asked Questions Social Media Center Social Media accounts Follow Us Policy Privacy Statement Accessibility Diversity Statement Copyright © 2022 City & County of Honolulu Back to top

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:

--- Text from PDF (https://fire.honolulu.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/HWMO-Your-Personal-Wildland-Fire-Protection-Guide.pdf) ---
YOUR PERSONAL WILDLAND FIRE ACTION GUIDE
READY, SET, GO!
HawaiiWildfire.org
Hawai'i
This guide was developed by:
In partnership with:
Saving Lives and Property 
Through Advanced PlanningREADY, SET, GO!    
Wildland Fire Action Guide
INSIDE
 Wildland Fire Urban Interface 3
	 Hawaii’s	Growing	Wildfire	Problem	 4-5
 What is Defensible Space? 6
 Actions You Can Take Today 7
	 Defensible	Space	-	Hawaiian-Style	 8
	 What	is	a	Hardened	Home?	 9
			Creating	a	Safe	Home	in	the	WUI	 10-11
	 Ready,	Set,	Go!:	Your	Own	Action	Guide	12-14
	 Large	Landowners:	Action	Guide	 15-16
	 Our	Family’s	Evacuation	Plan	 17-19
	 Residential	Safety	Checklist	 20
“This	publication	was	produced	by	Hawaii	Wildfire	Management	Organization	(HWMO),	made	pos -
sible	through	a	grant	from	the	USDA	Forest	Service	and	with	the	help	of	HWMO’s	partners	from	
the	Pacific	Fire	Exchange,	Hawaii	Department	of	Land	and	Natural	Resources	-	Division	of	Forest -
ry	and	Wildlife,	College	of	Tropical	Agriculture	and	Human	Resources	of	the	University	of	Hawaii	
at	Manoa,	Hawaii	Fire	Department,	Honolulu	Fire	Department,	Kauai	Fire	Department,	and	Maui	
Fire	Department,	in	a	cooperative	effort	with	the	International	Association	of	Fire	Chiefs.	HWMO	
is	an	equal	opportunity	employer.	The	national	RSG!	Program	is	managed	by	the	International	
Association	of	Fire	Chiefs,	funded	by	the	United	States	Department	of	Agriculture	Forest	Service,	
the	United	States	Department	of	the	Interior,	with	partner	support	from	the	United	States	Fire	Ad -
ministration,	Firewise	Communities	Program	and	the	Insurance	Institute	for	Business	and	Home	
Safety.	For	more	information	on	the	RSG!	Program,	please	visit	www.wildlandfireRSG.org.”he	fire	season	is	now	a	year-round	reality	in	many	areas	across	
the	Hawaiian	Islands,	requiring	firefighters	and	residents	to	be	on	
heightened	alert	for	the	threat	of	wildland	fire.
Each	year,	wildland	fires	consume	hundreds	of	homes	across	the	nation	in	
the	Wildland-Urban	Interface	 (WUI),	and	Hawaii	is	at	a	similar	risk.	Studies	
show	that	as	many	as	80	percent	of	the	homes	lost	to	wildland	fires	could	
have	been	saved	if	their	owners	had	only	followed	a	few	simple	fire-safe	
practices.	In	addition,	wildland	fire	related	deaths	occur	because	people	
wait	too	long	to	leave	their	home.
In	the	event	of	a	wildland	fire,	our	first	responders	take	every	precaution	
to	help	protect	you	and	your	property.	However,	the	reality	is	that	in	a	
major	wildland	fire	event,	there	will	simply	not	be	enough	fire	resources	or	
firefighters	to	defend	every	home.
Successfully	preparing	for	a	wildland	fire	enables	you	to	proactively	
take	personal	responsibility	for	protecting	yourself,	your	family	and	your	
property.		In	this	Action	Guide,	we	hope	to	provide	the	tips	and	tools	
you	need	to	prepare	for	a	wildland	fire	threat	(Ready),	have	situational	
awareness	when	a	fire	starts	(Set),	and	to	act	early	(Go!).
The	Ready,	Set,	Go!	Program	works	in	complimentary	and	collaborative	
fashion with the Firewise®	Communities	Program	and	other	existing	
wildland	fire	public	education	efforts.  Utilizing	firefighters	and	local	
wildland	fire	 prevention	expertise,	it	 amplifies	their	 messages	to	 individuals	
to	better	achieve	the	common	goal	of	wildland	fire	preparedness.	
Many	residents	have	built	homes	and	landscaped	without	fully	
understanding	the	impact	a	fire	can	have	on	them	and	few	have	
adequately	prepared	their	families	for	a	quick	evacuation.
It’s not a question of if but when	the	next	major	wildland	fire	will	occur.		
Through advanced planning, understanding and preparation, we can all 
be	partners	in	the	wildland	fire	solution.	We	hope	you	find	the	tips	in	the	
following	pages	helpful	in	creating	heightened	awareness	and	a	more	fire-
safe	environment	for	you,	your	family	and	firefighters.		T
“This	Hawaii	version	of	the	RSG	Action	Plan	was	made	possible	by	The	Coopera -
tive	Fire	Program	of	the	U.S.	Forest	Service,	Department	of	Agriculture,	Pacific	
Southwest	Region.	In	accordance	with	Federal	law	and	U.S.	Department	of	
Agriculture	policy,	this	institution	is	prohibited	from	discriminating	on	the	basis	
of	race,	color,	national	origin,	sex,	age,	or	disability.	(Not	all	prohibited	bases	
apply	to	all	programs.)	To	file	a	complaint	of	discrimination,	write	USDA,	Direc -
tor,	Office	of	Civil	Rights,	Room	326-W,	Whitten	Building,	1400	Independence	
Avenue,	SW,	Washington,	DC	20250-9410	or	call	(202)	720-5964	(voice	and	
TDD).	USDA	is	an	equal	opportunity	provider	and	employer.	3
Living in the  
Wildland Urban Interface  
and the Ember Zone
Ready,	Set,	Go!	Begins	with	a  
House	That	Firefighters	Can	Defend
A home	within	one	mile	of	a	natural	area	is	in	the	
Ember	Zone.	Wind-driven	embers	can	attack	your	
home.	You	and	your	home	must	be	prepared	well	
before	a	fire	occurs.	Ember	fires	can	destroy	homes	
or	neighborhoods	far	from	the	actual	flame	front	
of	the	wildland	fire.	These	threats	are	amplified	in	
Hawaii	due	to	the	culmination	of	thermal,	saddle,	
storm,	and	trade	winds	that	create	a	complex	system	
of	strong,	erratic	winds	(see	diagram	on	right).
Defensible Space Works!
If	you	live	next	to	a	natural	area,	the	Wildland			
Urban	Interface,	you	should	provide	firefighters	
with the defensible space they need to protect 
your	home.  The	buffer	zone	you	create	by	
removing	weeds,	brush	and	other	vegetation	
helps	keep	the	fire	away	from	your	home	and	
reduces	the	risk	from	flying	embers.  Firewise 
Communities	and	other	wildland	fire	prepared -
ness	education	programs	provide	valuable	
guidance	on	property	enhancements.  
Consider This
Unmanaged	vegetation	between	and	around	homes	increases	the	risk	of	
wildland	fire	spreading	throughout	the	community,	endangering	lives	and	
property.	Pre-fire	planning,	fuels	management,	and	sufficient	fuelbreaks	
allow	firefighters	the	space	they	need	to	keep	fire	from	entering	the	
community	during	a	wildland	fire	event.	Check	out	these	photos	of	WUI	areas	
from	different	parts	of	the	islands.	Do	any	of	them	remind	you	of	where	you	
and	your	family	live?
Not	Only	the	Homes	on	the	
Wildland	Boundary	are	at	Risk
Fire	is	wind-driven.
Know	your	wind-related	risks.Hawaii’s Growing 
Wildland Fire Problem
And	Why	We	Should	Be	ConcernedTraditionally,	Hawaii	ecosystems	existed	with	a	very	
limited	presence	of	wildland	fire.	However,	as	climate	
conditions	and	land	uses	have	changed	over	recent	time,	
non-native,	fire-adapted	vegetation	have	rapidly	spread	
through	our	wildland	landscapes	and	toward	community	
boundaries.	In	addition,	communities	are	expanding	
further	into	fire-prone	areas,	increasing	the	risk	of	
wildland	fires	that	threaten	natural	resources,	including	
native	habitats,	and	people’s	lives	and	homes.	
Impacts on Natural Resources
Invasive vegetation such as guinea 
and fountain grass spread easily 
and	rapidly.	These	plants	also	ignite	easily.	After	
the	fire,	they	re-sprout	and	out-com -
pete native plants, spreading over a 
larger	area	than	before.		All it takes is another spark and 
the	same	area	will	burn	hotter,	
more	intensely,	and	over	a	larger	
area	than	before.	This	creates	a	
vicious	fire	cycle.	
Mauka Fires Affect Makai Health and Safety
In	addition,	Hawaii’s	high-intensity	
rain events can sweep away soil 
through erosion, runoff and land -
slides.Rivers	and	streams	carry	the	debris	
and	sediment	into	the	ocean	polluting	
coral reefs and negatively affecting 
sea	life.	This	adversely	affects	com -
merce	such	as	fishing	and	marine/
coastal-based	tourism.Wildland	fire,	fueled	by	the	build-up	of	
dry vegetation and driven by a	complex	
system	of	hot	dry	winds,	are	extremely	
difficult,	expensive,	and	dangerous	
to	control.	Hawaii’s	wide	diversity	of	
challenging terrains add to the challenge 
for	firefighters.
Did	You	Know?
18%	of	the	state	land	cover	
is	nonnative	grassland.
Large	fires	destroy	vegetation	that	
help	hold	down	soil.	Heavy	winds	
can lift the soil and create dust 
storms	that	impact	air	quality	and	
human	health.
4Dust
Impacts on People & Communities
Towns	and	cities	expanding	outward -
ly	into	formerly	undeveloped	areas...and	a	steady	increase	in	human	
ignition	sources	via	human	error	and	
intention...
and large areas of fallow, invasive, 
or	un-managed	vegetation...	
Future Outlook
Climate	change	is	increasing	the	length	and	
frequency of drought periods, creating drier 
conditions.	Scientists	predict	these	trends	will	
continue and even worsen, which will result in 
larger	fires	that	are	more	severe	and	intense.
 We need to create resilient	landscapes	and	communities	 across	Hawaii.	You	can	play	a	significant	role	by	
increasing	resilience	in	and	around	your	own	home	and	preparing	your	family	for	a	potential	wildland	fire	
event.	Use	the	following	pages	as	a	guideline.How	You	Can	Make	a	DifferenceAs	more	areas	become	drier,	they	will	become	more	prone	
to	wildland	fire.	Just	because	your	area	is	currently	green,	as	
shown	in	the	Communities	at	Risk	From	Wildfires	map	below,	
doesn’t	mean	it	will	be	in	future.	As	a	result,	it’s	best	if	you	
take	action	now,	rather	than	later,	when	it	may	be	too	late.
Did	You	Know?
From	2002-2011,	
Hawaii	experienced:
		>900	Wildland	fire	ignitions/year
		>17,000	acres	burned/year
...are	increasing	the	size,	frequency,	
and	intensity	of	fires	across	all	of	the	
islands	on	both	wet	and	dry	sides.	
56What is Defensible Space?
Zone	One	extends	30	feet	out	from	buildings,	structures,	decks,	etc.
•	 Remove	all	dead	or	dying	vegetation.
•	 Remove	“ ladder fuels ”	(low-level	vegetation	that	allows	the	fire	to	spread	from	
the	ground	to	the	tree	canopy).	Create	at	least	6	feet	of	separation	between	
low-level	vegetation	and	tree	branches.	This	can	be	done	by	reducing	the	
height	of	low-level	vegetation	and/or	trimming	low	tree	branches.
•	 Create	“fire-free”	area	within	5	feet	of	home,	using	non-flammable	landscaping	
materials	and/or	high-moisture	content,	drought-resistant	vegetation.
•	 Trim	tree	canopies	regularly	to	keep	their	branches	a	minimum	of	10	feet	from	structures	and	other	trees.
•	 Remove	leaf	litter	(dry	leaves/pine	needles)	from	yard,	roof	and	rain	gutters.
•	 Relocate	woodpiles	or	other	combustible	materials	into	Zone	Two.
•	 Remove	combustible	material	and	vegetation	from	around	and	under	decks,	lanai,	or	the	entire	house	if	
foundation	is	post-and-pier.	
•	 Remove	or	prune	vegetation	near	windows.Defensible space is the required space between struc -
tures	and	the	wildland	area	that,	under	normal	conditions,	  
creates	a	sufficient	buffer	to	slow	or	halt	the	spread	of	
wildfire	to	a	structure.	It	protects	the	home	from	igniting	
due	to	direct	flame	or	radiant	heat.	Defensible	space	is	
essential	for	structure	survivability	during	wildland	fire	
conditions.  For	more	information	about	defensible	space	
zones	and	preparedness	techniques	within	each,	visit	the	
Firewise	Communities	website,	 www.firewise.or g.	
ZONE ONE
ZONE TWO
Zone	Two	extends	30	to	100	feet	out	from	buildings,	structures	and	decks.	You	can	minimize	the	chance	of	fire	
jumping	from	plant	to	plant	by	removing	dead	material	and	removing	and/or	thinning	vegetation.	The	minimum	
spacing	between	vegetation	is	three	times	the	dimension	of	the	plant.
•	 Remove	“ladder	fuels.”
•	 Cut	or	mow	annual	grass	down	to	a	maximum	height	of	4	inches.
•	 Trim	tree	canopies	regularly	to	keep	their	branches	a	minimum	of	10	feet	from	other	trees/cluster	of	trees.
*	For	larger	properties,	consider	areas	outside	of	Zone	Two	as	a	third	zone	to	address.	Continue	reducing	ladder	
fuels,	managing	fuels,	hardening	structures,	and	properly	storing	combustible	materials.
12
*7Actions You Can Take Today!
Remove	leaf	litter	and	other	debris	
that	accumulate	around	the	build -
ing, under vegetation, and other 
collection	areas.
Eliminate	ladder	fuels	by	pruning	
tree branches on trees around the 
property to within at least 6 feet of 
the ground, using a bypass lopper 
(seen	above),	pruner	saw,	or	long	
reach/hand	pruner.Weed around the property regu -
larly, especially areas that a lawn 
mower	is	not	appropriate	for	(tall	dry	
grasses,	rocky	terrain,	etc.)	
Non-native	trees,	such	as	ironwood	(seen	below)	
constantly drop needles, leaves, branches, and other 
debris,	so	it’s	best	to	stay	on	top	of	removing	them	
from	the	ground	before	the	pile	becomes	a	major	
project.	Consider	reforesting	these	areas	with	native	
trees	that	don’t	drop	large	amounts	of	debris.
Remove	flammable	materials	from	
underneath the house, decks, 
porches,	and	lanai.	Common	
flammables	include	scrap-wood,	
firewood,	and	combustible	furniture.Remove	leaf	litter,	straw	and	other	
debris	from	under	and	around	
propane	tanks	to	create	10	feet	of	
clearance	around	it.
Mow	the	lawn	regularly	to	keep	
grasses	shorter	than	4	inches	tall	
around	the	home.	Do	not	mow	in	
the heat of the day or when the 
wind	is	blowing.	Never	mow	in	dry	
vegetation.	
Invasive grasses such as guinea and fountain grass 
grow	rapidly	when	un-managed	and	can	dry	out	very	
quickly,	creating	a	major	fire	hazard.	Weed	them	
often	and	consider	replanting	with	low-lying,	drought-
tolerant,	native	ground	cover.Watch Out for Exotic Vegetation
Defensible Space - Hawaiian Style
Creating	defensible	space	does	not	necessarily	mean	elimi -
nating	the	presence	of	greenery	on	your	property.	You	can	
still	landscape	around	your	home	to	make	it	fire-safe	without	
compromising	beauty	and	aesthetics.	By	planting	native,	
drought-tolerant	plants	( xeriscaping )	around	your	home,	you	
can:
•	 Protect	your	home	from	wildland	fire	ignition	and	spread
•	 Beautify	your	property
•	 Perpetuate	an	important	natural	and	cultural	resource
•	 Decrease	the	maintenance	needs	of	your	landscaping
For the drier areas of Hawaii, consider that native dryland 
plants are specially adapted to local conditions and require 
less	upkeep,	water,	and	fire	maintenance,	saving	yourself	a	
great	deal	of	time,	money,	and	resources.	Non-native,	lush	
plants	often	drop	hazardous	debris	and	can	become	fire	
prone	in	drought	conditions.
Did	You	Know?
The	same	winds	that	blow	hazardous	debris	
towards	a	collection	area	(underneath	shrubs,	under	
the	lanai,	next	to	outer	edges	of	home,	etc.)	will	likely	
carry	embers	during	a	wildland	fire	to	that	same	spot,	
and	ignite	that	pile.	That’s	why	it’s	
incredibly	important	to	constantly	remove	debris	
from	these	areas	long	before	a	wildland	fire	occurs .
Consider	selecting	native	plants	from	this	list	
that	are	most	relevant	to	your	area:
8
Homes with Great Xeriscaping
‘Ilima	Papa Bonamia ‘Ākia
‘A‘ali‘i ‘Akoko ‘Ihi
Nānū Pōhinahina Ma‘o	Hau	Hele
Koki‘o ‘Ūlei Wiliwili
Koai‘a Uhiuhi Hala Pepe
‘Ohi‘a Lehua Ko‘oko‘olau ‘Ohe	Makai
‘Iliahi Nehe
 Alahe‘e
‘Ala‘ala	Wai	Nui Kolomona Koai‘a
Mamaki Kolea Maia	PiloWhat is a Hardened Home?
ROOFS
Roofs	are	the	most	vulnerable	surface	where	embers	land	
because	they	can	lodge	and	start	a	fire.	Roof	valleys,	open	
ends of barrel tiles and rain gutters	are	all	points	of	entry.
EAVES
Embers	can	gather	under	open	 eaves	and	ignite	exposed	
wood	or	other	combustible	material.
VENTS
Embers	can	enter	the	attic	or	other	concealed	spaces	and	
ignite	combustible	materials.	Vents	in	eaves	and	cornices	are	
particularly vulnerable, as are any unscreened vents.
WALLS and FENCING
Combustible	siding	or	other	combustible	or	overlapping	
materials	provide	surfaces	or	crevices	for	embers	to	nestle	
and	ignite.	Combustible	 fencing	can	become	engulfed	and	if	
attached	to	the	home’s	sidings	can	carry	the	fire	right	to	the	
home.
WINDOWS and DOORS
Embers	can	enter	gaps	in	doors,	including	garage	doors.	
Plants	or	combustible	storage	near	 windows  can be ignited 
from	embers	and	generate	heat	that	can	break	windows	and/
or	melt	combustible	frames.
BALCONIES and DECKS
Embers	can	collect	in	or	on	combustible	surfaces	or	the	
undersides	of	decks,	lanai,	and	balconies,	ignite	the	material	
and	enter	the	home	through	walls	or	windows.	Post-and-pier	
homes,	common	throughout	Hawaii,	are	especially	vulner -
able	since	most,	if	not	all,	of	the	underside	of	the	house	is	
exposed.
To	harden	your	home	even	further,	consider	protecting	your	
home	with	a	residential	fire	sprinkler	system.	In	addition	
to	extinguishing	a	fire	started	by	an	ember	that	enters	your	
home,	it	also	protects	you	and	your	family	year-round	from	any	
fire	that	may	start	inside	your	home.Construction	materials	and	the	quality	of	the	defensible	space	surrounding	it	are	what	give	a	home	
the	best	chance	to	survive	a	wildland	fire.	Embers	from	a	wildland	fire	will	find	the	weak	link	in	your	
home’s	fire	protection	scheme	and	gain	the	upper	hand	because	of	a	small,	overlooked	or	seemingly	
inconsequential	factor.	However,	there	are	measures	you	can	take	to	safeguard	your	home	from	wildland	
fire.	While	you	may	not	be	able	to	accomplish	all	the	measures	listed	below,	each	will	increase	your	
home’s,	and	possibly	your	family’s,	safety	and	survival	during	a	wildland	fire.
9
Gutter Guards or Screens
Enclosed	Eaves
Screened	Vents
Non-Combustible	Fencing
Windows	Clear	of	Vegetation
Home ImprovementsCreating a Safe Home in the WUI 
Inside : Keep	working	fire	extinguishers	on	hand.
Install	smoke	alarms	on	each	level	of	your	home	
and	near	bedrooms.	Test	them	monthly	and	
change	the	batteries	twice	a	year.
10
Home Site and Yard:  Ensure	you	have	at	least	a	100-foot	radius	
of	defensible	space	(cleared	vegetation)	around	your	home.	
Note	that	even	more	clearance	may	be	needed	for	homes	in	
severe	hazard	areas.	This	means	looking	past	what	you	own	to	
determine	the	impact	a	common	slope	or	neighbors’	yard	will	
have	on	your	property	during	a	wildland	fire.
Cut	dry	weeds	and	grass	before	noon	when	temperatures	are	
cooler	to	reduce	the	chance	of	sparking	a	fire.
Landscape	with	fire-resistant	plants	that	have	a	high	moisture	
content	and	are	low-growing.	
Keep	woodpiles,	propane	tanks	and	combustible	materials	
away	from	your	home	and	other	structures	such	as	garages,	
barns	and	sheds.
Ensure	that	trees	are	far	away	from	power	lines.Roof:  Your	roof	is	the	most	vulnerable	part	of	your	
home	because	it	can	easily	catch	fire	from	wind-
blown	embers.	Homes	with	wood-shake	or	shingle	
roofs are at high risk of being destroyed during a 
wildland	fire.
Build	your	roof	or	re-roof	with	fire-resistant	materi -
als	such	as	composition,	 metal	(as	seen	in	picture)	
or	tile.	Block	any	spaces	between	roof	decking	and	
covering	to	prevent	ember	intrusion.
Clear	pine	needles,	leaves	and	other	debris	from	
your	roof	and	gutters.
Cut	any	tree	branches	within	ten	feet	of	your	roof.
Driveways and Access Roads : Driveways should be 
designed	to	allow	fire	and	emergency	vehicles	and	
equipment	to	reach	your	house.	
Access	roads	should	have	a	minimum 	10-foot	
clearance on either side of the traveled section of 
the	roadway	and	should	allow	for	two-way	traffic.
Ensure	that	all	gates	open	inward	and	are	wide	
enough	to	accommodate	emergency	equipment.
Trim	trees	and	shrubs	overhanging	the	road	to	
a	minimum	of	13	1⁄2	feet	to	allow	emergency	
vehicles	to	pass.Deck/Patio Cover : Use	heavy	timber	or	non-flammable	
construction	material	for	decks.
Enclose	the	underside	of	balconies	and	decks	with	
fire-resistant	materials	to	prevent	embers	from					
blowing	underneath.
Keep	your	deck	clear	of	combustible	items,	such	as	
baskets,	dried	flower	arrangements	and	other	debris.
The	decking	surface	must	be	ignition	resistant	if	it’s	
within	10	feet	of	the	home.
Non-Combustible Fencing: 	Make	sure	to	use	non-
combustible	fencing	to	protect	your	home	during	a	
wildland	fire.	
Creating a Safe Home in the WUI 
Address :	Make	sure	your	address	is	
clearly	visible	from	the	road.Walls : Wood products, such as boards, panels or 
shingles,	are	common	siding	materials.	However,	they	are	
combustible	and	not	good	choices	for	fire-prone	areas.
Build	or	remodel	with	fire-resistant	building	materials,	
such	as	plaster,	cement,	masonry	or	stucco.
Be	sure	to	extend	materials	from	foundation	to	roof.
Windows :	Heat	from	a	wildland	fire	can	cause	
windows	to	break	even	before	the	home	ignites.	
This	allows	burning	embers	to	enter	and	start	
internal	fires.	Single-paned	and	large	windows	are	
particularly	vulnerable.
Install	dual-paned	windows	with	the	exterior	pane	of	
tempered	glass	to	reduce	the	chance	of	breakage	in	
a	fire.
Limit	the	size	and	number	of	windows	in	your	home	
that	face	large	areas	of	vegetation.Vents:	Vents	on	homes	are	particularly	vulnerable	to	flying	
embers.
All	vent	openings	should	be	covered	with	1⁄8-inch	or	
smaller	metal	mesh.	Do	not	use	fiberglass	or	plastic	mesh	
because	they	can	melt	and	burn.
Attic	vents	in	eaves	or	cornices	should	be	baffled	or						
otherwise	protected	to	prevent	ember	intrusion	(mesh	is	
not	enough).
Water Supply :	Have	multiple	garden	hoses	that	are	
long	enough	to	reach	any	area	of	your	home	and	
other	structures	on	your	property.
If	you	have	a	pool	or	well,	consider	a	pump.
Garage :	Have	a	fire	extinguisher	and	tools	such	as	a	
shovel,	rake,	bucket	and	hoe	available	for	fire	emergen -
cies.
Install	a	solid	door	with	self-closing	hinges	between	
living	areas	and	the	garage.	Install	weather	stripping	
around	and	under	door	to	prevent	ember	intrusion.
Store	all	combustibles	and	flammable	liquids	away	
from	ignition	sources.Chimney:  Cover	your	chimney	and	stovepipe	outlets	with	
a	non-flammable	screen	of	1⁄4-inch	wire	mesh	or	smaller	
to	prevent	embers	from	escaping	and	igniting	a	fire.
Make	sure	that	your	chimney	is	at	least	10	feet	away	
from	any	tree	branches.
Non-Combustible Enclosed Eaves: 	Box	in	eaves	
with	non-combustible	materials	to	prevent	
accumulation	of	embers.	
Raingutters:  Screen or enclose rain gutters to 
prevent	accumulation	of	plant	debris.
11
12Now	that	you’ve	done	everything	you	can	to	
protect	your	house,	its	time	to	prepare	your					
family.	Your	 Wildland Fire Action Guide 	must	be	
prepared	 with	all	members	 of	your	household	 well	
in	advance	of	a	fire.	Use	these	checklists	to	help	
you gain a situational awareness of the threat 
and	to	prepare	your	Wildland	Fire	Action	Guide.  
For	more	information	on	property	and	home	
preparedness	before	a	fire	threat,	review	the	
preparedness checklist on the Firewise 
Communities	website,	 www.firewise.or g.	READY, SET, GO!    
Create Your Own  
Action Guide
 Create a Family Disaster Plan 	that	includes	meeting 	
locations	and	communication	plans	and 	rehearse 	it	
regularly.	Include 	in	your	plan	the 	evacuation	of	pets 	
and	large 	animals	such	as	horses.
	 Have	fire	extinguishers	on	hand	and	train	your	family	
how	to	use	them.
	 Ensure	that	 your	family	knows	where	your	gas,	electric 	
and	water	main	shut-off	controls	are	and	how	to	use	
them.
	 Plan	several 	different	evacuation	routes.
	 Designate	an	emergency	meeting	location	outside	the 	
fire	hazard	area.
	 Assemble	an 	emergency	supply	kit	as	recommended	
by	the	American	Red	Cross	(www.redcross.org).
	 Appoint	an	out-of-area	friend	or	relative	as	a	point	of	
contact	so	you	can	communicate	 with	family	members	
who	have	relocated.
	 Maintain	a	list	of	emergency	contact	numbers	posted	
near	your	phone	and	in	your	emergency	supply	kit.
	 Keep	an	extra	emergency	 supply	kit	in	your	car	in	case	
you	can’t	get	to	your	home	because	of	fire.
 Have a portable radio or scanner so you can stay 
updated	on	the	fire.
 Have a clear list and easy access location for 
necessary	 medications,	 glasses	and	other	health	aids.Ready – Preparing for the Fire Threat
	 Talk	to	your	 community	members	and	
community	association	about	creating	a	
Community	Wildfire	Protection	Plan	(CWPP).	
Hawaii	Wildfire	Management	Organization	can	
assist	with	this	process.Take	Action	for	Your	Community
	 Coordinate	with	local	county	CERT	teams.	
	 Get	to	know	your	neighbors.	If	there	are	any	
elderly or handicapped residents, or others 
with	limited	mobility,	plan	with	them	on	how	
you	can	best	assist	them	in	the	event	of	a	
wildland	fire.
13Outside Checklist
	 Gather	up	flammable	items	from	the	exterior	
of	the	house	and	bring	them	inside	(e.g.,	patio	
furniture,	children’s	toys,	door	mats,	etc.)	or	place	
them	in	your	pool.	
	 Turn	off	propane	tanks.
	 Don’t	leave	sprinklers	on	or	water	running	-	they	
can	waste	critical	water	pressure.
	 Leave	exterior	lights	on.	
	 Back	your	car	into	the	driveway.	Shut	doors	and	
roll	up	windows.
	 Have	a	ladder	available.
	 Patrol	your	property	and	extinguish	all	small	fires	
until	you	leave.
	 Seal	attic	and	ground	vents	with	pre-cut	plywood	
or	commercial	seals	if	time	permits.	 Evacuate	as 	soon	as	you	are	set!	Do	not	wait	
for	evacuation	orders.	Get	out	early	-	you	can	
always	return	home	if	it	is	safe.	This	protects	you,	
decreases	traffic,	and	allows	firefighters	to	focus	
on	fire	suppression.	See	more	under	the	“Go”	
section.
	 Alert	family	and	neighbors.
	 Dress	in	appropriate	clothing	(i.e.,	clothing	made	
from	natural	fibers,	such	as	cotton,	and	work	
boots).	Have	goggles	and	a	dry	bandana	or	
particle	mask	handy.
	 Ensure	that	 you	have	your	emergency	supply	kit	
on	hand	that	includes	all	necessary	items,	such	
as a battery powered radio, spare batteries, 
emergency	contact	numbers,	and	ample	drinking	
water.
	 Stay	tuned	to	your	TV	or	local	radio	stations	for	
updates,	or	check	the	fire	department	Web	site.
	 Remain	close	to	your	house,	drink	plenty	of	water	
and	keep	an	eye	on	your	family	and	pets	until	you	
are	ready	to	leave.Set – Situational Awareness When a Fire Starts
If You are Trapped: Survival Tips
	 Shelter	away	from	outside	walls.
	 Bring	garden 	hoses	inside	house	so	embers	don’t	
destroy	them.
	 Patrol	inside 	your	home	for	spot	fires	and	
extinguish	them.
	 Wear	long	sleeves	and	long	pants	made	of	natural	
fibers	such	as	cotton.
	 Stay	hydrated.
	 Ensure	you	can	exit	the	home	if	it	catches	fire	
(remember	if	it’s	hot	inside	the	house,	it	is	four	to	
five	times	hotter	outside).
	 Fill	sinks	and 	tubs	for	an	emergency	water	supply.
	 Place	wet	towels	under	doors	to	keep	smoke	and	
embers	out.
	 After	the	fire 	has	passed,	check	your	entire	
property	and	extinguish	any	fires	or	embers.
	 If	there	are	fires	that	you	can	not	extinguish	with	a	
small	amount	of	water	or	in	a	short	period	of	time,	
call	9-1-1.Inside Checklist
	 Shut	all	windows	and	doors,	leaving	them	
unlocked.
	 Remove	flammable	window	shades	and	curtains	
and	close	metal	shutters.
	 Remove	lightweight	curtains.
	 Move	flammable	furniture	to	the	center	of	the	
room,	away	from	windows	and	doors.
	 Shut	off	gas	at	the	meter.	Turn	off	pilot	lights.
	 Leave	your	lights	on	so	firefighters	can	see	your	
house	under	smoky	conditions.
	 Shut	off	the	 air	conditioning.
14Go – Leave Early
By	leaving	early,	you	give	your	family	the	best	
chance	of	surviving	a	wildland	fire.	You	also	help	
firefighters	by	keeping	roads	clear	of	congestion,	
enabling	them	to	move	more	freely	and	do	their	
job	in	a	safer	environment.
WHEN TO LEAVE
Leave	early	enough	to	avoid	being	caught	in	fire,	
smoke	or	road	congestion.	Don’t	wait	to	be	told	
by	authorities	to	leave.	In	an	intense	wildland	fire,	
they	may	not	have	time	to	knock	on	every	door.	If	
you are advised to leave, don’t hesitate! 
WHERE TO GO
Leave	to	a	predetermined	location	(it	should	
be	a	low-risk	area,	such	as	a	well-prepared	
neighbor or relative’s house, a Red Cross shelter 
or	evacuation	center,	motel,	etc.).	Your	local	
Community	Wildfire	Protection	Plan	will	also	have	
locations	listed.
HOW TO GET THERE
Have several travel routes in case one route is 
blocked	by	the	fire	or	by	emergency	vehicles	and	
equipment.	Choose	an	escape	route	away	from	
the	fire.
WHAT TO TAKE
Take	your	emergency	supply	kit	containing	your	
family	and	pet’s	necessary	items.
EMERGENCY SUPPLIES
The	American	Red	Cross	recommends	every	fam -
ily	have	an	emergency	supply	kit	assembled	long	
before	a	wildland	fire	or	other	emergency	occurs.	
Use	the	checklist	below	to	help	assemble	yours.	
For	more	information	on	emergency	supplies,	visit	
the	American	Red	Cross	Web	site	at	  
www.redcross.org.
	 Three-day	supply	of	water	(one	gallon	per	
person	per	day).
	 Non-perishable	food	for	all	family	members	
and	pets	(three-day	supply).
	 First	aid	kit.
	 Flashlight,	battery-powered	radio,	and	extra	
batteries.
	 An	extra	set	of	car	keys,	credit	cards,	cash	or	
traveler’s	checks.
	 Sanitation	supplies.
	 Extra	eyeglasses	or	contact	lenses.
	 Important	family	documents	and	contact	
numbers.
	 Map	marked	with	evacuation	routes.
	 Prescriptions	or	special	medications.
	 Family	photos	and	other	irreplaceable	items.
	 Easily	carried	valuables.
	 Personal	computers	(information	on	hard	
drives	and	disks).
	 Chargers	for	cell	phones,	laptops,	etc.
Note:	Keep	a	pair	of	old	shoes	and	a	flashlight	
handy	in	case	of	a	sudden	evacuation	at	night.READY, SET, GO!    
For Large Landowners & 
Land Managers
Ready 
	 Go	through	the	previous	guidelines	(pgs.	12-14)	
with	your	family	in	addition	to	this	section.	
	 Have	at	least	two	exits	for	your	headquarters	and	
primary	residence	for	your	evacuation	plan.
	 If	you	have	a 	GPS	device,	pre-program	it	with	
multiple	escape	routes.
	 Keep	an	emergency	supply	kit	in	all	ranch	and	
personal	vehicles.Prepare Your Family, Employees, and Visitors
Prepare Your Animals
	 Create	a	livestock	evacuation	plan.
	 Ensure	proper	registering	and	branding	of	livestock.
	 Establish	a	back-up	plan	for	feeding	livestock	if	
grazing	land	is	destroyed	by	fire.Prepare Your Property
	 Create	and	maintain	firebreaks	(vegetation	
removed	down	to	bare,	mineral	soil)	each	year	prior	
to	fire	season	around	pastures	and	structures.	This	
will	allow	access	for	suppression.	The	width	of	the	
firebreaks	should	be	at	least	3x	the	fuel	height.
	 Reduce	vegetation	and	remove	combustible	
material	around	all	structures.
	 When	selecting	for	understory	vegetation	(below	
trees),	choose	those	that	are	less	fire-prone	and	
don’t dry out quickly, and those that don’t create 
ladder	fuels.	
	 Prioritize	assets	by	assessing	the	risk	and	value	of	
each	and	the	effort	it	would	take	to	protect	them.
	 Maintain	your	equipment	(power	tools,	mowers,	
catalytic	converters,	etc.)	Make	sure	working	
spark	arrestors	are	installed	and	maintained	on	
equipment.
	 Reinforce	fences	with	metal	posts,	if	applicable.
	 Create	a	safe	zone	clear	of	all	vegetation	for	
equipment.
 Clear vegetation around fuel tanks and other highly 
combustible	equipment.
	 Create	a	fire 	pre-plan	for	your	property	that	includes	
insights	from	your	fire	department	and	wildland	fire	
experts.	Discuss	your	plan	and	property	specifics	
with	local	firefighters	ahead	of	time.	(See	pre-plan	
insert	on	next	page).
	 Track	the	weather	daily.	Take	note	of	changing	
conditions.
 If the weather is too dry: close the area, avoid 
risky	equipment	operations,	or	driving	over	dry	
vegetation.	Fires	can	start	by	simply	idling	your	
car	over	grass.	Make	sure	all	vehicles’	catalytic	
converters	are	in	working	order.	Know	Your	Area’s	Conditions
15
Have	suppression	tools	&	methods	available	on	site:
	 Fire	extinguisher
 Water
 Fire toolsCatch	the	Fire	Before	it	Burns	Out	of	Control
 Phone on site
	 Keys	to	the	dozerFor Large Landowners & Land Managers
Set
	 Hook	up	your	stock	trailer	and	load	your	animals.
 Unlock and open gates so livestock can escape 
flames	and	firefighters	can	gain	access.
 Close all barn doors so horses and livestock will not 
go	into	a	burning	building.Your Animals
Your Property
	 Follow	guidelines	from	page	13.
	 Move	equipment	into	a	safe	zone	that	is	clear	of	
combustible	fuels.
	 Close	all	doors,	windows,	and	turn	on	exterior/
interior	lights	in	barns	and	other	structures.
	 Shut	off	gas	supply	and	propane	tanks.Your Family, Employees, and Visitors
	 Follow	guidelines	from	page	13.
	 Alert	family,	ranch	hands,	field	workers,	or	anyone	
else	who	is	on	your	property.
	 Make	sure	you	have	a	contact	list	or	meeting	
location	coordinated	ahead	of	time	to	ensure	
everyone’s	safety.
	 Make	sure	address	posts	are	clearly	visible	and	
marked	in	contrasting	colors.
	 Keep	copies 	of	gate	keys	and	a	written	list	of	
combinations	in	a	known	location.
	 Make	sure	your	property	is	properly	mapped	out	
and	that	your	county	fire	department	has	a	copy	
of	the	map.
	 Maintain	roads	far	in	advance	of	fire	season.	
Make	sure	there	is	enough	room	for	fire	trucks	
to	drive	through	and	that	large	turn-outs	for	
emergency	vehicles	are	available.	Hazards	to	
look out for include: overhanging trees, low 
power lines, bridges with weight restrictions, 
boggy areas, and rural residence internal 
fencing.
	 Establish	“safety	zones”	(large	areas	free	of	
vegetation	and	other	hazardous	conditions	for	
firefighters	to	retreat	to).
	 Maximize	water	source	access	and	availability	
(hydrants,	ditches,	reservoirs,	water	tanks,	etc.).	
Ensure	pumps	and	hoses	are	available	and	that	
the	size	and	type	of	outlets	are	standard	fittings.
	 If	you	would 	like	to	offer	your	equipment	
(water,	tank,	tractor)	for	firefighting,	make	
arrangements	and	contacts	prior	to	use	for	
proper	tracking	and	reimbursement.Pre-Plan:	Ensure	Firefighters	Have	AccessGo
	 Follow	guidelines	from	page	14.
	 Ensure	all	people	have	safely	evacuated.
	 Stay	in	communication	with	fire	operations.	Ask	
questions,	offer	assistance,	and	give	permission.	
Your invaluable knowledge of the area will prove 
useful	for	firefighters	who	are	there	to	help	protect	
your	land	and	resources.	 Fire	crews	can	then	run	an	
operation	that	meets	your	needs	as	well	as	theirs.
1617Post in a location where every	member	of	your	family	can	see	it,	such	as	on	the	fridge	or	next	to	a	phone.
Out-of-State	Contact:	  Phone:  
Work	Phone	#1:	 	Work	Phone	#2:	  
Our	child(ren)’s	school(s)	evacuate	to:	  
School	Phone	#(s):	    Child(ren)’s	school-approved	alternative	emergency	contact:	
Other #s:   
Evacuation	Routes:
Where to go: 
Location	of	Emergency	Supply	Kit:	Well	before	fire	danger	is	 HIGH,	prepare	your	family	and	residence	for	potential	wildfires.	Monitor	your	
local	media	for	the	latest	information	on	any	incident,	and	make	certain	your	mobile	phones	have	
emergency	“In	Case	of	Emergency”	(ICE)	information	loaded.Our Family’s Wildland Fire Action Guide
Hawaii	County	Fire	Dept.
(808)	932-2912Honolulu	County	Fire	Dept.
(808)	723-7163Maui	County	Fire	Dept.
(808)	244-9161Kauai	County	Fire	Dept.
(808)	241-4985
Local	Fire	Department	Numbers
(Circle	the	appropriate	contact)
	 Remember	to	PRACTICE	your	
evacuation	plan	several	times	
each	year	with	your	family!Safety TipPrimary:
Secondary:
Additional	important	items	(glasses,	medications,	medical	aids,	etc.)	and	where	they’re	kept:
Neighbors	we’ve	agreed	to	assist:
Name:
Phone #:
Address:
How we’ve agreed to help:Name:
Phone #:
Address:
How we’ve agreed to help:
HawaiiWildfire.orgEmergency Plan Notes
Use	the	space	below	to	add	any	additional	information	to	your	family’s	evacuation	plan:
1819Our Family’s Home Evacuation Plan
Draw	a	floor	plan	or	map	of	your	home	with	the	space	provided	below:	
•	 Show	all	doors	and	windows.
•	 Mark	two	ways	out	of	each	room	with	arrows																	
(1st	choice:	solid	and	2nd	choice:	dotted).
•	 Mark	all	smoke	alarms	in	the	house	with	a								.															
Mark	all	fire	extinguishers	with	a																	.
•	 Mark	your	emergency	kit	with	a									.	Keep	kits	close	
to	your	2	main	exits.
•	 Pick	and	mark	a	main	meeting	place	(and	a	backup	
alternative)	outside	the	house	where	everyone	can	
meet,	away	from	any	hazards.
•	 Remember	to	practice	your	plan	at	least	twice	a	year.
Example:Post in a location where every	member	of	your	family	can	see	it,	such	as	on	the	fridge	or	next	to	a	phone.READY, SET, GO!
Residential Safety Checklist
Tips	To	Improve	Family	and	Property	Survival	During	A	Wildland	Fire
  Home Yes No
1.	 Does	your	home	have	a	metal,	composition,	or	tile	(or	other	non-combustible)	roof	    
with capped ends and covered fascia? 
2.	 Are	the	rain	gutters	and	roof	free	of	leaves,	needles	and	branches?		  
3.	 Are	all	vent	openings	screened	with	1/8	inch	(or	smaller)	mesh	metal	screen?		  
4.	 Are	approved	spark	arrestors	on	chimneys?	   
5.	 Does	the	house	have	non-combustible	siding	material?		  
6.	 Are	the	eaves	“boxed	in”	and	the	decks,	lanai,	and/or	pier-and-posts	enclosed?		  
7.	 Are	the	windows	made	of	at	least	double-paned	or	tempered	glass?	   
8.	 Are	the	decks,	porches,	lanai,	and	other	similar	areas	made	of	non-combustible		   
material	and	free	of	easily	combustible	material	(e.g.	plastic	furniture)?	
9.	 Is	all	firewood	at	least	30	feet	from	the	house?	  
  Defensible Space Yes No
1.	 Is	dead	vegetation	cleared	100	feet	from	the	house?		   
(Consider	adding	distance	due	to	slope	of	property.)  
2.	 Is	there	separation	between	shrubs?		 	   
3.	 Are	ladder	fuels	removed?	 	    
4.	 Is	there	a	clean	and	green	area	extending	at	least	30	feet	from	the	house?		   
5.	 Is	there	a	non-combustible	area	within	five	feet	of	the	house?    
6.	 Is	there	separation	between	trees/tree	clusters?	   
  Emergency Access Yes No
1.	 Is	the	home	address	visible	from	the	street?	   
2.	 Is	the	home	address	made	of	fire-resistant	materials?		  
3.	 Are	street	signs	present	at	every	intersection	leading	to	the	house?	   
4.	 Are	street	signs	made	of	fire-resistant	materials?	   
5.	 Is	flammable	vegetation	within	10	feet	of	the	driveway	cleared	and	    
are	overhanging	obstructions	removed?	
6.	 If	a	long	driveway	is	present,	does	it	have	a	suitable	turnaround	area?	  
Ready, Set, Go!
www.wildlandfireRSG.org
Hawaii	Wildfire	
Management	Organization
www.hawaiiwildfire.org
