Source URL: https://www.budget.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Department of Budget and Finance Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Hawaii.gov Text size: Smaller | Reset | Larger Government Directory State of Hawaiʻi Department of Budget and Finance Ka ʻOihana Mālama Moʻohelu a Kālā Search this site Search Home About About B&F Administrative Rules Boards & Commissions Budget Finance Public Services Hawai‘i Health Authority HI529 – Hawaii’s College Savings Program Investor Relations Public Defender Hawai‘i ABLE Savings Program Unclaimed Property Program Gov’t Employees Employees’ Retirement Program (ERS) ERS Home Employer-Union Health Benefits Trust Fund (EUTF) Jobs Contact Contact Department of Budget & Finance Uniform Information Practices Act Budget Finance Public Services Statewide Policies Act 1, 2017 Mass Transit Special Fund Aloha from the Department of Budget and Finance! The Department of Budget and Finance, headed by the Director of Finance, administers the State budget, develops near- and long-term financial plans and strategies for the State, and provides programs for the improvement of management and financial management of State agencies. Need help in another language? For 廣東話/广东话 , 國語/普通话 , Kapasen Chuuk , ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi , Ilokano , 日本語 , 한국어 , Kajin M̧ajeļ , Gagana Samoa , Español , Tagalog , ภาษาไทย , Tiếng Việt , Visayan go here . Investor Relations The investor relations website provides access to the electronic version of selected State of Hawaiʻi municipal bond program information. Read More Office of Federal Awards Management The Office of Federal Awards Management (OFAM) plans, organizes, directs, coordinates, and conducts federal award activities to advance the management, administration, and oversight of federal awards made to Executive State Departments and Agencies. The objective of these activities is to maximize the program and fiscal performance of federal awards, ensure compliance with state and federal rules and regulations, and reduce the opportunity for waste, fraud, and abuse. For more information on what OFAM does, please visit https://federalawards.hawaii.gov/ . Tools Retirement Benefits Estimate Calculator Unclaimed Property Search Conduct unclaimed property searches by name. Adobe Reader To view PDF files. Contact State of Hawaiʻi Department of Budget and Finance P. O. Box 150 Honolulu, Hawaii 96810PH: (808) 586-1518 email: [email protected] More info Employees' Retirement System (ERS) Read More Employees' Retirement System (ERS) Employer-Union Health Benefits Trust Fund Read More Employer-Union Health Benefits Trust Fund Office of the Public Defender (PD) Read More Office of the Public Defender (PD) About Us Contact Us Site Map Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy DBF Notice Under the ADA (808) 586-1518 contact email Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
