Source URL: https://www.governor.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Governor Josh Green, M.D. Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer x Office of the Governor Governor Josh Green, M.D. Ke Keʻena O Ke Kiaʻāina Search this site Search button Home About Governor Green About the Governor and First Lady Meet the Cabinet Office of the Governor Staff State of the State Address 2023 News Newsroom Office of the Governor Press Releases Latest Department News Emergency Proclamations Flag Orders Subscribe to Office of the Governor News Releases Contact Us Contact Us Contact the Governor General Contact Information Comments on Legislation Hawaiʻi State Capitol Tours Invite the Governor to an Event Request a Bill Signing Ceremony Request a Commemorative Message Request a Meeting Submit a Flag Request UIPA Request Get Involved Newsletter Priorities Maui Wildfires Information Transparency and Crime Prevention For Maui Wildfire Survivors Homelessness Housing Wellness and Resilience Climate Advisory Team (CAT) Pathways to Maui Economic Recovery Read more Governor's Awards Recognize Outstanding State Employees and Teams Read more Governor Green Signs 253 Bills Into Law Read more UH Research Studies Health and Environmental Impacts of the Lahaina Wildfire Read more Maui Wildfires Remembrance Events Read more Gov. Green Signs 16 Bills to Enhance the Protection and Care of Hawaiʻi’s Keiki and Kūpuna Read more Hawai‘i Marine Affairs Committee, Plotting a course for our future Read more First Family Receives Keys to New Temporary Housing on Maui Read more Groundbreaking Marks the Start of Ka La‘i Ola, a Major Housing Initiative for Maui Wildfire Survivors Read more Gov. Green Renews Commitment to House FEMA-Ineligible Maui Wildfire Survivors Read more Gov. Green Opens Paepae Hou Kauhale with Blessing Read more Gov. Green Delivers Maui Housing Plan Update Read more Gov. Green Unveils 2024 Policy Report for ʻThe Hawaiʻi We Deserveʻ Read more GOVERNOR GREEN OPENS HO‘OKAHI LEO KAUHALE TO REDUCE HOMELESSNESS IN KALIHI Read more Ke Ala Hou, A New Path Forward: Governor's Message February 2024 Read more Native Species Survival Highlighted Locally and Nationally Read more Charting the Course for Maui’s Economic Recovery Read more Kids’ Day Event Returns to the Women’s Community Correctional Center Read more Facebook Twitter Flickr Instagram ABOUT THE GOVERNOR Josh Green, M.D. Governor Josh Green is a proud husband, father, and physician. For the past 20 years, Governor Green cared for Big Island families as a doctor. He served in the State House of Representatives and the State Senate from 2004 to 2018. As chair of the Senate Health and Human Services Committee, he passed “Luke’s Law,” which provides care for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder , as well as tobacco and e-cigarette regulations, which increased the legal age for purchasing tobacco and e-cigarettes to 21. Passionate about housing solutions, Governor Green helped create “ Kauhale ” communities to get unsheltered veterans, kūpuna, and others into safe housing options. These efforts are ongoing and will continue to be one of his top priorities as Governor. Governor Green expanded the role of Lieutenant Governor by spearheading the largest healthcare response in state history during the COVID pandemic. These critical emergency efforts resulted in Hawaiʻi having the nation’s lowest COVID-19 fatality rate . Connect With Governor Green Instagram 10/19/23 Maui Wildfire Update. Temporary Assistan This is neighbors helping neighbors, as we allow o Today marks the beginning of the Red Hill defuelin Mental health has always been a concern for us, an Load More Follow on Instagram Facebook Comments Box SVG icons Used for the like, share, comment, and reaction icons Governor Josh Green 4 days ago There’s a lot happening this week, here’s a short update on what’s going on in our state. ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email Governor Josh Green 5 days ago With President Trump’s re-election, we enter a pivotal moment for our country. This election has brought out passionate voices and underscored the challenges we face together. Now, it is essential for us as Americans to unite—not by ignoring our differences, but by addressing them—to find solutions that work for everyone. Here in Hawai‘i, we are committed to resilience, collaboration, and the well-being of our communities. Let’s move forward with purpose, working toward a future that reflects the strength and unity of our nation. ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email Governor Josh Green 5 days ago Photos from The LVRG Group's post ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email Governor Josh Green 5 days ago Watch "Spotlight Now" for Nov. 5, 2024 ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email Governor Josh Green is at Capitol Modern. 1 week ago Today, my family and I had the wonderful experience of visiting Solomon Enos at Capitol Modern, where we were able to leave our mark on his beautiful new artwork for the waterless pools at the Hawaiʻi State Capitol. This project is about more than just reimagining a part of our Capitol; it’s about capturing the spirit of Hawaiʻi. Inspired by the ocean, Solomon’s design reflects our connection to the sea and the unique beauty it brings to our islands. More importantly, this artwork is a chance for us to come together as a community to create something lasting—a piece that embodies who we are and will remain here for future generations. I invite you to be part of this meaningful project, too. Stop by Capitol Modern, meet Solomon, and add your own mark to this artwork that celebrates our ties to the land and sea. You can visit from November 15 to December 1, Monday through Saturday, between 9 a.m. and noon. Let’s create something timeless together. ... See More See Less View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email Load more Twitter Governor Josh Green Follow 1,933 11,398 Father, husband, Governor of Hawai`i, Steelers enthusiast. Let's move Hawai`i forward together. Retweet on Twitter Governor Josh Green Retweeted ; 'Ōlelo Community Media @olelocommunity · 3 Jun 1797741340874412523 06.03.24 - ‘Ōlelo covered Gov Green’s press conference on signing into law the largest tax cut bill for working families in state history, along with tax exemption for medical services. Watch full coverage: https://www.youtube.com/live/0Cbjsx7uS-E?si=9fDtHTrruUcw7RCl #taxcuts #taxexemption Twitter feed video. Retweet on Twitter Governor Josh Green Retweeted ; NGA @NatlGovsAssoc · 3 Jun 1797681782684590173 Energy resilience & effective emergency response are priorities for all Governors but are particularly salient for Governors of America’s islanded territories & states. Last month Hawai’i @GovJoshGreenMD hosted an NGA Roundtable on Energy Resilience. More: Load More Facebook Twitter Flickr Instagram Policies Terms of Use Accessibility Privacy Policy Powered by eHawaii.gov Copyright © 2024, State of Hawaii. All rights reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
