Source URL: https://www.chartercommission.hawaii.gov

TEXT CONTENT:
Hawaii State Public Charter School Commission Skip to main content State Public Charter School Commission State Public Charter School Commission ʻAha Kula Hoʻāmana × Home For Families & Community Find a Charter School Governing Boards Early Learning/Pre-K COVID-19 Guidance, Resources & Case Count For Staff & Schools The Commission's Organizational Chart Performance Framework & Contract 4.0 Starting a Charter School in Hawaii References Reports Resources Employment Opportunities News & Updates Commission Oversight Actions Monthly e-Newsletters About Commission The Commission Commission Staff State Public Charter School Commission Meetings SPCSC Strategic Plan Administrative Rules Employment Opportunities Request for Proposal & Contract Awards Contact Us UIPA Request Complaints Against A Public Charter School State Public Charter School Commission ʻAha Kula Hoʻāmana Search For Families & Community Find a Charter School Governing Boards Early Learning/Pre-K COVID-19 Guidance, Resources & Case Count For Staff & Schools The Commission's Organizational Chart Performance Framework & Contract 4.0 Starting a Charter School in Hawaii References Reports Resources Employment Opportunities News & Updates Commission Oversight Actions Monthly e-Newsletters About Commission The Commission Commission Staff State Public Charter School Commission Meetings SPCSC Strategic Plan Administrative Rules Employment Opportunities Request for Proposal & Contract Awards Contact Us UIPA Request Complaints Against A Public Charter School Menu Find a school, documentation, policy, etc. Find a Charter School About Charter Schools Who We Are ʻAha Kula Hoʻāmana ʻAha means “commission.” ʻAha also refers to courage. Kula is the Hawaiian way of saying “school.” Kula also mean “uplands.” We are trying to take education in Hawaii to a higher level. Hoʻāmana — the literal translation means “to authorize.” The other meaning is “to empower.” It is our intent to empower our communities to create schools of excellence. Dr. Peter Hanohano Safe, stable and loving environment I have 5 children, one of whom has attended the PreK program at Laupāhoehoe Charter School. My daughter has wanted to go to school since the day she was born because I could not afford a PreK program, I haven’t been able to send any of my kids to PreK, so when I found out about the opportunity to do so, I jumped on it and was able to for the first time send my third child to PreK. She has loved getting to be among her peers and learning so many life skills! The teachers there are unbelievable, they are dedicated to every child’s success, they love and care for each one as though they are their own. This PreK has provided stability for many kids that come from rough home situations, providing them a safe, stable and loving environment! I have witnessed this myself! It would be detrimental to take that away from the community! Parent, Laupāhoehoe Community PCS, Hawai`i Island Providing quality Early Education With two children approaching preschool, private pay preschools was definitely a financial burden. I didn’t want to compromise their learning or their social development by not sending them to school. This is why the federal grant for Waiʻalae Charter was such a blessing for our family! Our son attended Waiʻalae’s preschool 2017-2018 [program]. He benefited from a multicultural environment and loved learning about the plant life cycle, about building structures, and especially the Hawaiian language and culture component. He is now excelling in all aspects of Kindergarten at Waiʻalae School. He is reading and writing, his creativity is unlimited, he has made good friends, and he still has an incredible love for the Hawaiian language and culture. Without preschool at Waiʻalae, our family would not have been able to provide our children with a quality early education. We are grateful for the grant, the teachers and the loving environment Waiʻalae provides for the keiki [children]. Parent, Wai`alae Elementary PCS, Oahu News & Updates Oct 18, 2024 Hawaiʻi Charter School Teacher of the Year Congratulations to Ms. Robin Meleana Cone-Murakami Barros, the 2025 Hawai‘i Charter School Teacher of the Year. Ms. Robin is an arts and sustainability teacher at SEEQS: the Read More Hawaiʻi Charter School Teacher of the Year Aug 26, 2024 Four Hawaiʻi Island Charter Schools Closed Today Due To Power Outages and Hazardous Road Conditions (August 26, 2024) Due to power outages and hazardous road conditions caused by Hurricane Hone, the following Hawaiʻi Island charter schools are closed today, August 26, 2024: Read More Four Hawaiʻi Island Charter Schools Closed Today Due To Power Outages and Hazardous Road Conditions Aug 07, 2024 Successful Hawaiʻi Public Charter Schools Conference The Hawaiʻi State Public Charter School Commission and the Hawaiʻi Public Charter Schools Network hosted a dynamic and informative conference for charter school leaders, governing Read More Successful Hawaiʻi Public Charter Schools Conference All News & Updates Monthly Ka ʻElele E-Newsletter Sign up to receive important information and news on upcoming events Sign up Ka ʻElele: SPCSC's Weekly E-Newsletters Sign up to receive Ka ʻElele, the official e-newsletter of the Hawaii State Public Charter School Commission/ʻAha Kula Hoʻāmana. Ka ʻElele covers a multitude of topics and issues relevant to Hawaii's public charter schools. Sign up to receive Ka ʻElele, the official e-newsletter of the Hawaii State Public Charter School Commission/ʻAha Kula Hoʻāmana. Ka ʻElele covers a multitude of topics and issues relevant to Hawaii's public charter schools. Email Address* First Name* Last Name* Subscribe FAQs Find a School Governing Boards Employment Opportunities News State Public Charter School Commission 1164 Bishop Street, Suite 1100 Honolulu, HI 96813 info@spcsc.hawaii.gov T: 808-586-3775 Facebook Youtube Email © 2024 State Public Charter School Commission. All Rights Reserved.

EXTRACTED CONTENT FROM PDFs:
